1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NUCYNTA ® ( tapentadol ) is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe acute pain in patients 18 years of age or older .
NUCYNTA ® is an opioid analgesic indicated for the relief of moderate to severe acute pain in patients 18 years of age or older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As with many centrally - acting analgesic medications , the dosing regimen should be individualized according to the severity of pain being treated , the previous experience with similar drugs and the ability to monitor the patient .
The dose is 50 mg , 75 mg , or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours depending upon pain intensity .
On the first day of dosing , the second dose may be administered as soon as one hour after the first dose , if adequate pain relief is not attained with the first dose .
Subsequent dosing is 50 mg , 75 mg , or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours and should be adjusted to maintain adequate analgesia with acceptable tolerability .
Daily doses greater than 700 mg on the first day of therapy and 600 mg on subsequent days have not been studied and are not recommended .
NUCYNTA ® may be given with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• As with many centrally - acting analgesic medications , the dosing regimen of NUCYNTA ® should be individualized according to the severity of pain being treated , the previous experience with similar drugs and the ability to monitor the patient .
( 2 ) • Initiate NUCYNTA ® with or without food at a dose of 50 mg , 75 mg , or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours depending upon pain intensity .
On the first day of dosing , the second dose may be administered as soon as one hour after the first dose , if adequate pain relief is not attained with the first dose .
Subsequent dosing is 50 mg , 75 mg , or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours and should be adjusted to maintain adequate analgesia with acceptable tolerability .
Daily doses greater than 700 mg on the first day of therapy and 600 mg on subsequent days have not been studied and are , therefore , not recommended .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment .
The use in this population is not recommended .
2 . 2 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
Treatment in these patients should be initiated at 50 mg with the interval between doses no less than every 8 hours ( maximum of three doses in 24 hours ) .
Further treatment should reflect maintenance of analgesia with acceptable tolerability , to be achieved by either shortening or lengthening the dosing interval [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and use in this population is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
2 . 3 Elderly Patients In general , recommended dosing for elderly patients with normal renal and hepatic function is the same as for younger adult patients with normal renal and hepatic function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal and hepatic function , consideration should be given to starting elderly patients with the lower range of recommended doses .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS NUCYNTA ® Tablets are round , biconvex and film - coated and are available in the following strengths , colors , and debossings : 50 mg of tapentadol ( yellow with " O - M " on one side and " 50 " on the other side ) , 75 mg of tapentadol ( yellow - orange with " O - M " on one side and " 75 " on the other side ) , and 100 mg of tapentadol ( orange with " O - M " on one side and " 100 " on the other side ) .
Tablets : 50 mg , 75 mg , 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Enter section text here • Impaired pulmonary function ( significant respiratory depression , acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercapnia in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment ) ( 4 . 1 ) • Paralytic ileus ( 4 . 2 ) • Concomitant use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) or use within 14 days ( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Impaired Pulmonary Function Like other drugs with mu - opioid agonist activity , NUCYNTA ® is contraindicated in patients with significant respiratory depression in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment .
NUCYNTA ® is also contraindicated in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercapnia in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Paralytic Ileus Like drugs with mu - opioid agonist activity , NUCYNTA ® is contraindicated in any patient who has or is suspected of having paralytic ileus .
4 . 3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors NUCYNTA ® is contraindicated in patients who are receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or who have taken them within the last 14 days due to potential additive effects on norepinephrine levels which may result in adverse cardiovascular events [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here • Respiratory depression : Increased risk in elderly , debilitated patients , those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia , hypercapnia , or upper airway obstruction .
( 5 . 1 ) • CNS effects : Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Elevation of intracranial pressure : May be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions .
( 5 . 3 ) • Abuse potential may occur .
Monitor patients closely for signs of abuse and addiction .
( 5 . 4 ) • Impaired mental / physical abilities : Caution must be used with potentially hazardous activities .
( 5 . 5 ) • Seizures : Use with caution in patients with a history of seizures .
( 5 . 7 ) • Serotonin Syndrome : Potentially life - threatening condition could result from concomitant serotonergic administration .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of mu - opioid agonists .
Respiratory depression occurs more frequently in elderly or debilitated patients and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia , hypercapnia , or upper airway obstruction , in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation .
NUCYNTA ® should be administered with caution to patients with conditions accompanied by hypoxia , hypercapnia or decreased respiratory reserve such as : asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , severe obesity , sleep apnea syndrome , myxedema , kyphoscoliosis , central nervous system ( CNS ) depression , or coma .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of NUCYNTA ® may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea .
Alternative non - mu - opioid agonist analgesics should be considered and NUCYNTA ® should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients .
If respiratory depression occurs , it should be treated as any mu - opioid agonist - induced respiratory depression [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 CNS Depression Patients receiving other mu - opioid agonist analgesics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , other tranquilizers , sedatives , hypnotics , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with NUCYNTA ® may exhibit additive CNS depression .
Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , coma or death may result if these drugs are taken in combination with NUCYNTA ® .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , a dose reduction of one or both agents should be considered .
5 . 3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure Opioid analgesics can raise cerebrospinal fluid pressure as a result of respiratory depression with carbon dioxide retention .
Therefore , NUCYNTA ® should not be used in patients who may be susceptible to the effects of raised cerebrospinal fluid pressure such as those with evidence of head injury and increased intracranial pressure .
Opioid analgesics may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injury due to effects on pupillary response and consciousness .
NUCYNTA ® should be used with caution in patients with head injury , intracranial lesions , or other sources of preexisting increased intracranial pressure .
5 . 4 Misuse and Abuse Tapentadol is a mu - opioid agonist and is a Schedule II controlled substance .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders .
Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty .
NUCYNTA ® can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing NUCYNTA ® in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse and abuse .
Concerns about abuse and addiction should not prevent the proper management of pain .
However , all patients treated with mu - opioid agonists require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , since use of mu - opioid agonist analgesic products carry the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® may be abused by crushing , chewing , snorting or injecting the product .
These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
5 . 5 Driving and Operating Machinery Patients should be cautioned that NUCYNTA ® may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
This is to be expected especially at the beginning of treatment , at any change of dosage as well as in combination with alcohol or tranquilizers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Due to its mu - opioid agonist activity , NUCYNTA ® may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression , respiratory depression , hypotension , and profound sedation , coma or death [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Seizures NUCYNTA ® has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder , and such patients were excluded from clinical studies .
NUCYNTA ® should be prescribed with care in patients with a history of a seizure disorder or any condition that would put the patient at risk of seizures .
5 . 8 Serotonin Syndrome Risk The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with use of Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor ( SNRI ) products , including NUCYNTA ® , particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs such as Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , SNRIs , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , MAOIs and triptans , and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) .
This may occur within the recommended dose .
Serotonin syndrome may include mental - status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
5 . 9 Withdrawal Withdrawal symptoms may occur if NUCYNTA ® is discontinued abruptly .
These symptoms may include : anxiety , sweating , insomnia , rigors , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , piloerection , and rarely , hallucinations .
Withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering NUCYNTA ® [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 10 Hepatic Impairment A study of NUCYNTA ® in subjects with hepatic impairment showed higher serum concentrations than in those with normal hepatic function .
NUCYNTA ® should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and , therefore , use in this population is not recommended .
5 . 11 Use in Pancreatic / Biliary Tract Disease Like other drugs with mu - opioid agonist activity , NUCYNTA ® may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following treatment - emergent adverse events are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Respiratory Depression [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • CNS Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse event rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
A treatment - emergent adverse event refers to any untoward medical event associated with the use of the drug in humans , whether or not considered drug - related .
Based on data from nine Phase 2 / 3 studies that administered multiple doses ( seven placebo - and / or active - controlled , one noncontrolled and one Phase 3 active - controlled safety study ) the most common adverse events ( reported by ≥ 10 % in any NUCYNTA ® dose group ) were : nausea , dizziness , vomiting and somnolence .
The most common reasons for discontinuation due to adverse events in the studies described above ( reported by ≥ 1 % in any NUCYNTA ® dose group ) were dizziness ( 2 . 6 % vs . 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 2 . 3 % vs . 0 . 6 % ) , vomiting ( 1 . 4 % vs . 0 . 2 % ) , somnolence ( 1 . 3 % vs . 0 . 2 % ) and headache ( 0 . 9 % vs . 0 . 2 % ) for NUCYNTA ® - and placebo - treated patients , respectively .
Seventy - six percent of NUCYNTA ® - treated patients from the nine studies experienced adverse events .
NUCYNTA ® was studied in multiple - dose , active - or placebo - controlled studies , or noncontrolled studies ( n = 2178 ) , in single - dose studies ( n = 870 ) , in open - label study extension ( n = 483 ) and in Phase 1 studies ( n = 597 ) .
Of these , 2034 patients were treated with doses of 50 mg to 100 mg of NUCYNTA ® dosed every 4 to 6 hours .
The data described below reflect exposure to NUCYNTA ® in 3161 patients , including 449 exposed for 45 days .
NUCYNTA ® was studied primarily in placebo - and active - controlled studies ( n = 2266 , and n = 2944 , respectively ) .
The population was 18 to 85 years old ( mean age 46 years ) , 68 % were female , 75 % white and 67 % were postoperative .
Most patients received NUCYNTA ® doses of 50 mg , 75 mg , or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours .
The most common adverse events were nausea , dizziness , vomiting and somnolence .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact PriCara , Division of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Commonly - Observed Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events in Double - Blind Controlled Clinical Trials Table 1 lists the adverse events reported in ≥ 1 % or more of NUCYNTA ® - treated patients with acute moderate to severe pain in the pooled safety data from nine Phase 2 / 3 studies that administered multiple doses ( seven placebo - and / or active - controlled , one noncontrolled , and one Phase 3 active - controlled safety study ) .
Table 1 Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events * Reported by ≥ 1 % of NUCYNTA ® - Treated Patients In Seven Phase 2 / 3 Placebo - and / or Oxycodone - Controlled , One Noncontrolled , and One Phase 3 Oxycodone - Controlled Safety , Multiple - Dose Clinical StudiesSystem / Organ Class NUCYNTA ® Placebo MedDRA Preferred Term 21 mg – 120 mg ( n = 619 ) ( n = 2178 ) % % Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 30 13 Vomiting 18 4 Constipation 8 3 Dry mouth 4 < 1 Dyspepsia 2 < 1 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 3 < 1 Feeling hot 1 < 1 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 < 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 < 1 Urinary tract infection 1 < 1 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 2 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 1 < 1 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 24 8 Somnolence 15 3 Tremor 1 < 1 Lethargy 1 < 1 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 2 < 1 Confusional state 1 0 Abnormal dreams 1 < 1 Anxiety 1 < 1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Pruritus 5 1 Hyperhidrosis 3 < 1 Pruritus generalized 3 < 1 Rash 1 < 1 Vascular disorders Hot flush 1 < 1 * A treatment - emergent adverse event refers to any untoward medical event associated with the use of the drug in humans , whether or not considered drug - related .
6 . 2 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of NUCYNTA ® The following adverse drug reactions occurred in < 1 % of NUCYNTA ® - treated patients in the pooled safety data from nine Phase 2 / 3 studies that administered multiple doses ( seven were placebo - and / or active - controlled , one noncontrolled , and one Phase 3 active - controlled safety study ) : Cardiac disorders : heart rate increased , heart rate decreased Eye disorders : visual disturbance Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal discomfort , impaired gastric emptying General disorders and administration site conditions : irritability , edema , drug withdrawal syndrome , feeling drunk Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity Investigations : gamma - glutamyltransferase increased , alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : involuntary muscle contractions , sensation of heaviness Nervous system disorders : hypoesthesia , paresthesia , disturbance in attention , sedation , dysarthria , depressed level of consciousness , memory impairment , ataxia , presyncope , syncope , coordination abnormal , seizure Psychiatric disorders : euphoric mood , disorientation , restlessness , agitation , nervousness , thinking abnormal Renal and urinary disorders : urinary hesitation , pollakiuria Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : oxygen saturation decreased , cough , dyspnea , respiratory depression Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : urticaria Vascular disorders : blood pressure decreased In the pooled safety data , the overall incidence of adverse reactions increased with increased dose of NUCYNTA ® , as did the percentage of patients with adverse reactions of nausea , dizziness , vomiting , somnolence , and pruritus .
6 . 3 Post - marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of NUCYNTA ® .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably .
Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea Immune system disorders : angioedema Nervous system disorders : headache Psychiatric disorders : hallucination 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS NUCYNTA ® is mainly metabolized by glucuronidation .
The following substances have been included in a set of interaction studies without any clinically significant finding : acetaminophen , acetylsalicylic acid , naproxen and probenecid [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of tapentadol were not affected when gastric pH or gastrointestinal motility were increased by omeprazole and metoclopramide , respectively [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Use NUCYNTA ® with caution in patients currently using specified centrally - acting drugs or alcohol .
( 7 . 3 ) • Do not use NUCYNTA ® in patients currently using or within 14 days of using a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Enzymes In vitro investigations indicate that NUCYNTA ® does not inhibit or induce P450 enzymes .
Thus , clinically relevant interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 system are unlikely to occur [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drugs That Inhibit or Induce Cytochrome P450 Enzymes The major pathway of tapentadol metabolism is conjugation with glucuronic acid to produce glucuronides .
To a lesser extent , tapentadol is additionally metabolized to N - desmethyl tapentadol ( 13 % ) by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 to hydroxy tapentadol ( 2 % ) by CYP2D6 , which are further metabolized by conjugation .
Since only a minor amount of NUCYNTA ® is metabolized via the oxidative pathway clinically relevant interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 system are unlikely to occur [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Centrally - Acting Drugs and Alcohol Patients receiving other opioid agonist analgesics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , antiemetics , other tranquilizers , sedatives , hypnotics , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with NUCYNTA ® may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with NUCYNTA ® .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , a dose reduction of one or both agents should be considered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors NUCYNTA ® is contraindicated in patients who are receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or who have taken them within the last 14 days due to potential additive effects on norepinephrine levels which may result in adverse cardiovascular events [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Enter section text here • Labor and delivery : should not use during and immediately prior to labor and delivery .
Monitor neonates , whose mothers have been taking NUCYNTA ® , for respiratory depression .
( 8 . 2 ) • Nursing mothers : should not breast - feed .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : safety and effectiveness not established in patients less than 18 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal or hepatic impairment : not recommended in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment .
Use with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Elderly : care should be taken when selecting an initial dose .
( 2 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Tapentadol HCl was evaluated for teratogenic effects in pregnant rats and rabbits following intravenous and subcutaneous exposure during the period of embryofetal organogenesis .
When tapentadol was administered twice daily by the subcutaneous route in rats at dose levels of 10 , 20 , or 40 mg / kg / day [ producing up to 1 times the plasma exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 700 mg / day based on an area under the time - curve ( AUC ) comparison ] , no teratogenic effects were observed .
Evidence of embryofetal toxicity included transient delays in skeletal maturation ( i . e . reduced ossification ) at the 40 mg / kg / day dose which was associated with significant maternal toxicity .
Administration of tapentadol HCl in rabbits at doses of 4 , 10 , or 24 mg / kg / day by subcutaneous injection [ producing 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 , and 1 . 85 times the plasma exposure at the MRHD based on an AUC comparison ] revealed embryofetal toxicity at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day .
Findings included reduced fetal viability , skeletal delays and other variations .
In addition , there were multiple malformations including gastroschisis / thoracogastroschisis , amelia / phocomelia , and cleft palate at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day and above , and ablepharia , encephalopathy , and spina bifida at the high dose of 24 mg / kg / day .
Embryofetal toxicity , including malformations , may be secondary to the significant maternal toxicity observed in the study .
In a study of pre - and postnatal development in rats , oral administration of tapentadol at doses of 20 , 50 , 150 , or 300 mg / kg / day to pregnant and lactating rats during the late gestation and early postnatal period [ resulting in up to 1 . 7 times the plasma exposure at the MRHD on an AUC basis ] did not influence physical or reflex development , the outcome of neurobehavioral tests or reproductive parameters .
Treatment - related developmental delay was observed , including incomplete ossification , and significant reductions in pup body weights and body weight gains at doses associated with maternal toxicity ( 150 mg / kg / day and above ) .
At maternal tapentadol doses ≥ 150 mg / kg / day , a dose - related increase in pup mortality was observed through postnatal Day 4 .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of NUCYNTA ® in pregnant women .
NUCYNTA ® should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effect of tapentadol on labor and delivery in humans is unknown .
NUCYNTA ® is not recommended for use in women during and immediately prior to labor and delivery .
Due to the mu - opioid receptor agonist activity of NUCYNTA ® , neonates whose mothers have been taking NUCYNTA ® should be monitored for respiratory depression .
A specific opioid antagonist , such as naloxone , should be available for reversal of opioid induced respiratory depression in the neonate .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers There is insufficient / limited information on the excretion of tapentadol in human or animal breast milk .
Physicochemical and available pharmacodynamic / toxicological data on tapentadol point to excretion in breast milk and risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded .
NUCYNTA ® should not be used during breast - feeding .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of NUCYNTA ® in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
NUCYNTA ® is not recommended in this population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in Phase 2 / 3 double - blind , multiple - dose clinical studies of NUCYNTA ® , 19 % were 65 and over , while 5 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
The rate of constipation was higher in subjects greater than or equal to 65 years than those less than 65 years ( 12 % vs . 7 % ) .
In general , recommended dosing for elderly patients with normal renal and hepatic function is the same as for younger adult patients with normal renal and hepatic function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal and hepatic function , consideration should be given to starting elderly patients with the lower range of recommended doses [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment , the safety and effectiveness of NUCYNTA ® has not been established .
NUCYNTA ® is not recommended in this population [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Administration of NUCYNTA ® resulted in higher exposures and serum levels to tapentadol in subjects with impaired hepatic function compared to subjects with normal hepatic function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
NUCYNTA ® has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment , therefore , use of NUCYNTA ® is not recommended in this population [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Enter section text here 9 . 1 Controlled Substance NUCYNTA ® contains tapentadol , a mu - opioid agonist and is a Schedule II controlled substance .
NUCYNTA ® has an abuse potential similar to hydromorphone , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
9 . 2 Abuse Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiologic disease , with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Concerns about abuse and addiction should not prevent the proper management of pain .
However , all patients treated with opioids require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , because use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use .
" Drug seeking " behavior is very common in addicts , and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated claims of loss of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
" Doctor shopping " ( visiting multiple prescribers ) to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Preoccupation with achieving adequate pain relief can be appropriate behavior in a patient with poor pain control .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of mu - opioid agonists can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Careful recordkeeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Abuse of NUCYNTA ® poses a risk of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of NUCYNTA ® with alcohol and other substances .
In addition , parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of drugs with mu - opioid agonist properties .
Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use of NUCYNTA ® in this population has not been characterized .
As NUCYNTA ® has mu - opioid agonist activity , infants whose mothers have taken NUCYNTA ® , should be carefully monitored .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
Generally , tolerance and / or withdrawal are more likely to occur the longer a patient is on continuous opioid therapy .
In a safety study where drug was administered up to 90 days , 82 . 7 % of patients taking NUCYNTA ® who stopped abruptly without initiating alternative therapy and were assessed 2 to 4 days after discontinuation , did not have objective signs of opioid withdrawal using the Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale .
Moderate withdrawal symptoms were seen in 0 . 3 % of patients with the rest ( 17 % ) experiencing mild symptoms .
Withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering NUCYNTA ® .
10 OVERDOSAGE Enter section text here 10 . 1 Human Experience Experience with NUCYNTA ® overdose is very limited .
Preclinical data suggest that symptoms similar to those of other centrally acting analgesics with mu - opioid agonist activity are to be expected upon intoxication with tapentadol .
In principle , these symptoms may particularly appear in the clinical setting : miosis , vomiting , cardiovascular collapse , consciousness disorders up to coma , convulsions and respiratory depression up to respiratory arrest .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose Management of overdose should be focused on treating symptoms of mu - opioid agonism .
Primary attention should be given to re - establishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation when overdose of NUCYNTA ® is suspected .
Supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) should be employed in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompanying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
Pure opioid antagonists , such as naloxone , are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose .
Respiratory depression following an overdose may outlast the duration of action of the opioid antagonist .
Administration of an opioid antagonist is not a substitute for continuous monitoring of airway , breathing , and circulation following an opioid overdose .
If the response to opioid antagonists is suboptimal or only brief in nature , an additional antagonist should be administered as directed by the manufacturer of the product .
Gastrointestinal decontamination may be considered in order to eliminate unabsorbed drug .
Gastrointestinal decontamination with activated charcoal or by gastric lavage is only recommended within 2 hours after intake .
Gastrointestinal decontamination at a later time point may be useful in case of intoxication with exceptionally large quantities .
Before attempting gastrointestinal decontamination , care should be taken to secure the airway .
DESCRIPTION NUCYNTA ® ( tapentadol ) Tablets are immediate - release film - coated tablets for oral administration .
The chemical name is 3 - [ ( 1 R , 2 R ) - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - 1 - ethyl - 2 - methylpropyl ] phenol monohydrochloride .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of tapentadol HCl is 257 . 80 , and the molecular formula is C14H23NO • HCl .
The n - octanol : water partition coefficient log P value is 2 . 87 .
The pKa values are 9 . 34 and 10 . 45 .
In addition to the active ingredient tapentadol HCl , tablets also contain the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , croscarmellose sodium , povidone , magnesium stearate , and Opadry ® II , a proprietary film - coating mixture containing polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , talc , and aluminum lake coloring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Enter section text here 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tapentadol is a centrally - acting synthetic analgesic .
Although its exact mechanism is unknown , analgesic efficacy is thought to be due to mu - opioid agonist activity and the inhibition of norepinephrine reuptake .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tapentadol is a centrally - acting synthetic analgesic .
It is 18 times less potent than morphine in binding to the human mu - opioid receptor and is 2 – 3 times less potent in producing analgesia in animal models .
Tapentadol has been shown to inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in the brains of rats resulting in increased norepinephrine concentrations .
In preclinical models , the analgesic activity due to the mu - opioid receptor agonist activity of tapentadol can be antagonized by selective mu - opioid antagonists ( e . g . , naloxone ) , whereas the norepinephrine reuptake inhibition is sensitive to norepinephrine modulators .
Tapentadol exerts its analgesic effects without a pharmacologically active metabolite .
Effects on the cardiovascular system : There was no effect of therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses of tapentadol on the QT interval .
In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - and positive - controlled crossover study , healthy subjects were administered five consecutive doses of NUCYNTA ® 100 mg every 6 hours , NUCYNTA ® 150 mg every 6 hours , placebo and a single oral dose of moxifloxacin .
Similarly , NUCYNTA ® had no relevant effect on other ECG parameters ( heart rate , PR interval , QRS duration , T - wave or U - wave morphology ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Mean absolute bioavailability after single - dose administration ( fasting ) is approximately 32 % due to extensive first - pass metabolism .
Maximum serum concentrations of tapentadol are typically observed at around 1 . 25 hours after dosing .
Dose - proportional increases in the Cmax and AUC values of tapentadol have been observed over the 50 to 150 mg dose range .
A multiple ( every 6 hour ) dose study with doses ranging from 75 to 175 mg tapentadol showed a mean accumulation factor of 1 . 6 for the parent drug and 1 . 8 for the major metabolite tapentadol - O - glucuronide , which are primarily determined by the dosing interval and apparent half - life of tapentadol and its metabolite .
Food Effect The AUC and Cmax increased by 25 % and 16 % , respectively , when NUCYNTA ® was administered after a high - fat , high - calorie breakfast .
NUCYNTA ® may be given with or without food .
Distribution Tapentadol is widely distributed throughout the body .
Following intravenous administration , the volume of distribution ( Vz ) for tapentadol is 540 + / - 98 L .
The plasma protein binding is low and amounts to approximately 20 % .
Metabolism and Elimination In humans , the metabolism of tapentadol is extensive .
About 97 % of the parent compound is metabolized .
Tapentadol is mainly metabolized via Phase 2 pathways , and only a small amount is metabolized by Phase 1 oxidative pathways .
The major pathway of tapentadol metabolism is conjugation with glucuronic acid to produce glucuronides .
After oral administration approximately 70 % ( 55 % O - glucuronide and 15 % sulfate of tapentadol ) of the dose is excreted in urine in the conjugated form .
A total of 3 % of drug was excreted in urine as unchanged drug .
Tapentadol is additionally metabolized to N - desmethyl tapentadol ( 13 % ) by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 and to hydroxy tapentadol ( 2 % ) by CYP2D6 , which are further metabolized by conjugation .
Therefore , drug metabolism mediated by cytochrome P450 system is of less importance than phase 2 conjugation .
None of the metabolites contributes to the analgesic activity .
Tapentadol and its metabolites are excreted almost exclusively ( 99 % ) via the kidneys .
The terminal half - life is on average 4 hours after oral administration .
The total clearance is 1530 + / - 177 ml / min .
Special Populations Elderly The mean exposure ( AUC ) to tapentadol was similar in elderly subjects compared to young adults , with a 16 % lower mean Cmax observed in the elderly subject group compared to young adult subjects .
Renal Impairment AUC and Cmax of tapentadol were comparable in subjects with varying degrees of renal function ( from normal to severely impaired ) .
In contrast , increasing exposure ( AUC ) to tapentadol - O - glucuronide was observed with increasing degree of renal impairment .
In subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , the AUC of tapentadol - O - glucuronide are 1 . 5 - , 2 . 5 - , and 5 . 5 - fold higher compared with normal renal function , respectively .
Hepatic Impairment Administration of NUCYNTA ® resulted in higher exposures and serum levels to tapentadol in subjects with impaired hepatic function compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
The ratio of tapentadol pharmacokinetic parameters for the mild and moderate hepatic impairment groups in comparison to the normal hepatic function group were 1 . 7 and 4 . 2 , respectively , for AUC ; 1 . 4 and 2 . 5 , respectively , for Cmax ; and 1 . 2 and 1 . 4 , respectively , for t1 / 2 .
The rate of formation of tapentadol - O - glucuronide was lower in subjects with increased liver impairment .
Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions Tapentadol is mainly metabolized by Phase 2 glucuronidation , a high capacity / low affinity system , therefore , clinically relevant interactions caused by Phase 2 metabolism are unlikely to occur .
Naproxen and probenecid increased the AUC of tapentadol by 17 % and 57 % , respectively .
These changes are not considered clinically relevant and no change in dose is required .
No changes in the pharmacokinetic parameters of tapentadol were observed when acetaminophen and acetylsalicylic acid were given concomitantly .
In vitro studies did not reveal any potential of tapentadol to either inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes .
Thus , clinically relevant interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 system are unlikely to occur .
The pharmacokinetics of tapentadol were not affected when gastric pH or gastrointestinal motility were increased by omeprazole and metoclopramide , respectively .
Plasma protein binding of tapentadol is low ( approximately 20 % ) .
Therefore , the likelihood of pharmacokinetic drug - drug interactions by displacement from the protein binding site is low .
13 NON - CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY Enter section text here 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Tapentadol was administered to rats ( diet ) and mice ( oral gavage ) for two years .
In mice , tapentadol HCl was administered by oral gavage at dosages of 50 , 100 and 200 mg / kg / day for 2 years ( up to 0 . 2 times the plasma exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on an area under the time - curve [ AUC ] basis ) .
No increase in tumor incidence was observed at any dose level .
In rats , tapentadol HCl was administered in diet at dosages of 10 , 50 , 125 and 250 mg / kg / day for two years ( up to 0 . 2 times in the male rats and 0 . 6 times in the female rats the MRHD on an AUC basis ) .
No increase in tumor incidence was observed at any dose level .
Mutagenesis Tapentadol did not induce gene mutations in bacteria , but was clastogenic with metabolic activation in a chromosomal aberration test in V79 cells .
The test was repeated and was negative in the presence and absence of metabolic activation .
The one positive result for tapentadol was not confirmed in vivo in rats , using the two endpoints of chromosomal aberration and unscheduled DNA synthesis , when tested up to the maximum tolerated dose .
Impairment of Fertility Tapentadol HCl was administered intravenously to male or female rats at dosages of 3 , 6 , or 12 mg / kg / day ( representing exposures of up to approximately 0 . 4 times the exposure at the MRHD on an AUC basis , based on extrapolation from toxicokinetic analyses in a separate 4 - week intravenous study in rats ) .
Tapentadol did not alter fertility at any dose level .
Maternal toxicity and adverse effects on embryonic development , including decreased number of implantations , decreased numbers of live conceptuses , and increased pre - and post - implantation losses occurred at dosages ≥ 6 mg / kg / day .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In toxicological studies with tapentadol , the most common systemic effects of tapentadol were related to the mu - opioid receptor agonist and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition pharmacodynamic properties of the compound .
Transient , dose - dependent and predominantly CNS - related findings were observed , including impaired respiratory function and convulsions , the latter occurring in the dog at plasma levels ( Cmax ) which are in the range associated with the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of NUCYNTA ® in the treatment of moderate to severe acute pain has been established in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled studies of moderate to severe pain from first metatarsal bunionectomy and end - stage degenerative joint disease .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 1 Orthopedic Surgery - Bunionectomy A randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , active - and placebo - controlled , multiple - dose study demonstrated the efficacy of 50 mg , 75 mg , and 100 mg NUCYNTA ® given every 4 to 6 hours for 72 hours in patients aged 18 to 80 years experiencing moderate to severe pain following unilateral , first metatarsal bunionectomy surgery .
Patients who qualified for the study with a baseline pain score of ≥ 4 on an 11 - point rating scale ranging from 0 to 10 were randomized to 1 of 5 treatments .
Patients were allowed to take a second dose of study medication as soon as 1 hour after the first dose on study Day 1 , with subsequent dosing every 4 to 6 hours .
If rescue analgesics were required , the patients were discontinued for lack of efficacy .
Efficacy was evaluated by comparing the sum of pain intensity difference over the first 48 hours ( SPID48 ) versus placebo .
NUCYNTA ® at each dose provided a greater reduction in pain compared to placebo based on SPID48 values .
For various degrees of improvement from baseline to the 48 - hour endpoint , Figure 1 shows the fraction of patients achieving that level of improvement .
The figures are cumulative , such that every patient that achieves a 50 % reduction in pain from baseline is included in every level of improvement below 50 % .
Patients who did not complete the 48 - hour observation period in the study were assigned 0 % improvement .
Figure 1 : Percentage of Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by Pain Severity at 48 Hours Compared to Baseline - Post Operative Bunionectomy [ MULTIMEDIA ] The proportions of patients who showed reduction in pain intensity at 48 hours of 30 % or greater , or 50 % or greater were significantly higher in patients treated with NUCYNTA ® at each dose versus placebo .
14 . 2 End - Stage Degenerative Joint Disease A randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , active - and placebo - controlled , multiple - dose study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 50 mg and 75 mg NUCYNTA ® given every 4 to 6 hours during waking hours for 10 days in patients aged 18 to 80 years , experiencing moderate to severe pain from end stage degenerative joint disease of the hip or knee , defined as a 3 - day mean pain score of ≥ 5 on an 11 - point pain intensity scale , ranging from 0 to 10 .
Pain scores were assessed twice daily and assessed the pain the patient had experienced over the previous 12 hours .
Patients were allowed to continue non - opioid analgesic therapy for which they had been on a stable regimen before screening throughout the study .
Eighty - three percent ( 83 % ) of patients in the tapentadol treatment groups and the placebo group took such analgesia during the study .
The 75 mg treatment group was dosed at 50 mg for the first day of the study , followed by 75 mg for the remaining nine days .
Patients requiring rescue analgesics other than study medication were discontinued for lack of efficacy .
Efficacy was evaluated by comparing the sum of pain intensity difference ( SPID ) versus placebo over the first five days of treatment .
NUCYNTA ® 50 mg and 75 mg provided improvement in pain compared with placebo based on the 5 - Day SPID .
For various degrees of improvement from baseline to the Day 5 endpoint , Figure 2 shows the fraction of patients achieving that level of improvement .
The figures are cumulative , such that every patient that achieves a 50 % reduction in pain from baseline is included in every level of improvement below 50 % .
Patients who did not complete the 5 - day observation period in the study were assigned 0 % improvement .
Figure 2 : Percentage of Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by Average Pain Severity for the Previous 12 hours , Measured on Study Day 5 Compared to Baseline -- End Stage Degenerative Joint Disease [ MULTIMEDIA ] The proportions of patients who showed reduction in pain intensity at 5 days of 30 % or greater , or 50 % or greater were significantly higher in patients treated with NUCYNTA ® at each dose versus placebo .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NUCYNTA ® Tablets are available in the following strengths and packages .
All tablets are round and biconvex - shaped .
50 mg tablets are yellow and debossed with " O - M " on one side and " 50 " on the other side , and are available in Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 5979 - 1 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5979 - 0 75 mg tablets are yellow - orange and debossed with " O - M " on one side and " 75 " on the other side , and are available in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 6002 - 0 100 mg tablets are orange and debossed with " O - M " on one side and " 100 " on the other side , and are available in Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 6039 - 0 Store up to 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º – 30ºC ( 59º – 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Physicians are advised to discuss the following issues with patients for whom they prescribe NUCYNTA ® : 17 . 1 Instructions for Use Patients should be advised NUCYNTA ® should be taken only as directed and to report episodes of breakthrough pain and adverse experiences occurring during therapy to their physician .
Individualization of dosage is essential to make optimal use of this medication .
Patients should be advised not to adjust the dose of NUCYNTA ® without consulting their physician [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Patients should be advised that it may be appropriate to taper dosing when discontinuing treatment with NUCYNTA ® as withdrawal symptoms may occur [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
The physician can provide a dose schedule to accomplish a gradual discontinuation of the medication .
17 . 2 Misuse and Abuse Patients should be advised that NUCYNTA ® is a potential drug of abuse .
Patients should protect NUCYNTA ® from theft , and NUCYNTA ® should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom NUCYNTA ® was prescribed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 3 Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance As NUCYNTA ® has the potential to impair judgment , thinking , or motor skills , patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery , including automobiles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 4 Pregnancy Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with NUCYNTA ® [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 5 Nursing Patients should be advised not to breast - feed an infant during treatment with NUCYNTA ® [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 6 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Patients should be informed not to take NUCYNTA ® while using any drugs that inhibit monoamine oxidase .
Patients should not start any new medications while taking NUCYNTA ® until they are assured by their healthcare provider that the new medication is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor .
17 . 7 Seizures Patients should be informed that NUCYNTA ® could cause seizures if they are at risk for seizures or have epilepsy .
Such patients should be advised to use NUCYNTA ® with care [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Patients should be advised to stop taking NUCYNTA ® if they have a seizure while taking NUCYNTA ® and call their healthcare provider right away .
17 . 8 Serotonim Syndrome Patients should be informed that NUCYNTA ® could cause rare but potentially life - threatening conditions resulting from concomitant administration of serotonergic drugs ( including Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors , Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Patients should be advised to inform their physicians if they are taking , or plan to take , any prescription or over - the - counter drugs as there is a potential for interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
17 . 9 Alcohol Patients should be advised to avoid alcohol while taking NUCYNTA ® [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 10 Medication Guide See Medication Guide .
Revised : March 2011 Manufactured by : Janssen Ortho , LLC Gurabo , PR 00778 Manufactured for : PriCara ® , Division of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Raritan , NJ 08869 © Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 2009 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc Tulsa , OK 74146 MEDICATION GUIDE NUCYNTA ® ( new - SINN - tah ) ( tapentadol ) immediate - release oral tablets C - II • NUCYNTA ® is a federally controlled substance ( C - II ) because it can be abused .
Keep NUCYNTA ® in a safe place to prevent theft .
Selling or giving away NUCYNTA ® may harm others , and is against the law .
• Tell your doctor if you ( or a family member ) have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
Read the Medication Guide that comes with NUCYNTA ® before you start taking it and each time you get a new prescription .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions .
What is the most important information I should know about NUCYNTA ® ?
NUCYNTA ® is a tablet that contains tapentadol , a strong medicine that is a pain medicine .
Use NUCYNTA ® exactly how your doctor tells you to .
Do not use NUCYNTA ® if it has not been prescribed for you .
You should not take NUCYNTA ® if your pain is mild and can be controlled with other pain medicines such as non - steroidal anti - inflammatory medicines ( NSAIDS ) or acetaminophen .
What is NUCYNTA ® ?
• NUCYNTA ® is a prescription medicine that is used in adults 18 years of age or older to treat moderate to severe pain that is expected to last a short time .
NUCYNTA ® is for short - term use only because the risks for withdrawal symptoms , abuse and addiction are higher when NUCYNTA ® is used longer .
Who should not take NUCYNTA ® ?
Do not take NUCYNTA ® if you : • have severe lung problems • have a gastrointestinal problem called paralytic ileus in which the intestines are not working normally .
• take a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) medicine or have taken an MAOI within the last 14 days .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if any of your medicines is an MAOI .
What should I tell my doctor before taking NUCYNTA ® ?
NUCYNTA ® may not be right for you .
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you have : • trouble breathing or lung problems • or had a head injury • liver or kidney problems • convulsions or seizures • dependency problems with alcohol • pancreas or gall bladder problems • past or present substance abuse or drug addiction .
There is a risk of abuse or addiction with narcotic pain medicines .
If you have abused drugs in the past , you may have a higher chance of developing abuse or addiction again while using NUCYNTA ® .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant • are breast - feeding .
You should not breast - feed while taking NUCYNTA ® .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using NUCYNTA ® with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
The doses of some other medicines may need to be changed .
Your doctor can tell you what medicines can be safely taken with NUCYNTA ® .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) .
See " Who should not take NUCYNTA ® . "
• any medicine that makes you sleepy .
NUCYNTA ® can make you sleepy and affect your breathing .
Taking these medicines together can be dangerous .
How should I take NUCYNTA ® ?
• Do not take NUCYNTA ® unless it has been prescribed for you by your doctor .
• Take NUCYNTA ® exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Do not change the dose of NUCYNTA ® unless your doctor tells you to .
Your doctor may change your dose after seeing how the medicine affects you .
Do not use NUCYNTA ® more often than prescribed .
Call your doctor if your pain is not well controlled while taking NUCYNTA ® .
• Follow your doctor ' s instructions about how to slowly stop taking NUCYNTA ® to help lessen withdrawal symptoms .
• NUCYNTA ® can be taken with or without food .
What should I avoid while taking NUCYNTA ® ?
• Do not drive , operate machinery , or participate in any other possibly dangerous activities until you know how you react to this medicine .
NUCYNTA ® can make you sleepy .
• You should not drink alcohol while using NUCYNTA ® .
Alcohol increases your chance of having dangerous side effects .
What are the possible side effects of NUCYNTA ® ?
NUCYNTA ® can cause serious side effects including : • Life - threatening breathing problems .
Call your doctor right away or get emergency medical help if you : • have trouble breathing , or have slow or shallow breathing • have a slow heartbeat • have severe sleepiness • have cold , clammy skin • feel faint , dizzy , confused , or can not think , walk or talk normally • have a seizure • have hallucinations • Physical Dependence .
NUCYNTA ® can cause physical dependence .
Talk to your doctor about slowly stopping NUCYNTA ® to avoid getting sick with withdrawal symptoms .
You could become sick with uncomfortable symptoms because your body has become used to the medicine .
Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms of withdrawal : feeling anxious , sweating , sleep problems , shivering , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , hallucinations , hair " standing on end . "
Physical dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your doctor can tell you more about the differences between physical dependence and drug addiction .
• Serotonin syndrome .
Serotonin syndrome is a rare , life - threatening problem that could happen if you take NUCYNTA ® with Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , triptans or certain other medicines .
Call your doctor or get medical help right away if you have any one or more of the these symptoms : you feel agitated , have hallucinations , coma , rapid heart beat , feel overheated , loss of coordination , over active reflexes , nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea .
• Seizures .
NUCYNTA ® can cause seizures in people who are at risk for seizures or who have epilepsy .
Tell your doctor right away if you have a seizure and stop taking NUCYNTA ® .
• Low blood pressure .
This can make you feel dizzy if you get up too fast from sitting or lying down .
The common side effects with NUCYNTA ® are nausea , dizziness , vomiting , sleepiness , and itching .
Constipation is a common side effect of all opioid medicines .
Talk to your doctor about the use of laxatives and stool softeners to prevent or treat constipation while taking NUCYNTA ® .
Tell your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of NUCYNTA ® .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store NUCYNTA ® ?
• Store NUCYNTA ® at 59ºF to 86ºF ( 15ºC to 30ºC ) .
Keep NUCYNTA ® tablets dry .
• Dispose of NUCYNTA ® tablets you no longer need .
Keep NUCYNTA ® in a safe place out of the reach of children .
General information about NUCYNTA ® Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use NUCYNTA ® for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NUCYNTA ® to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
Sharing NUCYNTA ® could be harmful and is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about NUCYNTA ® .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about NUCYNTA ® that is written for doctors .
For more information about NUCYNTA ® call 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 .
What are the ingredients in NUCYNTA ® ?
Active Ingredient : tapentadol Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , croscarmellose sodium , povidone , magnesium stearate , and Opadry ® II , a proprietary film - coating mixture containing polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , talc , and aluminum lake coloring .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2010 Manufactured by : Janssen Ortho , LLC Gurabo , PR 00778 Manufactured for : PriCara ® , Division of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Raritan , NJ 08869 © Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 2009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NUCYNTA ™ ( tapentadol ) Tablets 50 mg CII Each tablet contains : tapentadol 50 mg Caution : Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any person other than the patient for whom it was prescribed .
Please see the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NUCYNTA ™ ( tapentadol ) Tablets 75 mg CII Each tablet contains : tapentadol 75 mg Caution : Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any person other than the patient for whom it was prescribed .
Please see the Medication Guide [ MULTIMEDIA ] NUCYNTA ™ ( tapentadol ) Tablets 100 mg CII Each tablet contains : tapentadol 100 mg Caution : Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any person other than the patient for whom it was prescribed .
Please see the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
