To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Coly - Mycin M and other antibacterial drugs , Coly - Mycin M should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
FOR INTRAMUSCULAR AND INTRAVENOUS USE DESCRIPTION Coly - Mycin ® M Parenteral ( Colistimethate for Injection , USP ) is a sterile parenteral antibiotic product which , when reconstituted ( see Reconstitution ) , is suitable for intramuscular or intravenous administration .
Each vial contains colistimethate sodium or pentasodium colistinmethanesulfonate ( 150 mg colistin base activity ) .
Colistimethate sodium is a polypeptide antibiotic with an approximate molecular weight of 1750 .
The empirical formula is C58H105N16Na5O28S5 and the structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Typical serum and urine levels following a single 150 mg dose of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral IM or IV in normal adult subjects are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Higher serum levels were obtained at 10 minutes following IV administration .
Serum concentration declined with a half - life of 2 – 3 hours following either intravenous or intramuscular administration in adults and in the pediatric population , including premature infants .
Average urine levels ranged from about 270 mcg / mL at 2 hours to about 15 mcg / mL at 8 hours after intravenous administration and from 200 to about 25 mcg / mL during a similar period following intramuscular administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Microbiology : Colistimethate sodium is a surface active agent which penetrates into and disrupts the bacterial cell membrane .
It has been shown to have bactericidal activity against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms : Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Susceptibility Testing : For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Coly - Mycin M Parenteral is indicated for the treatment of acute or chronic infections due to sensitive strains of certain gram - negative bacilli .
It is particularly indicated when the infection is caused by sensitive strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This antibiotic is not indicated for infections due to Proteus or Neisseria .
Coly - Mycin M Parenteral has proven clinically effective in treatment of infections due to the following gram - negative organisms : Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Coly - Mycin M Parenteral may be used to initiate therapy in serious infections that are suspected to be due to gram - negative organisms and in the treatment of infections due to susceptible gram - negative pathogenic bacilli .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Coly - Mycin M and other antibacterial drugs , Coly - Mycin M should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral is contraindicated for patients with a history of sensitivity to the drug or any of its components .
WARNINGS Maximum daily dose calculated from colistin base activity should not exceed 5 mg / kg / day with normal renal function .
Transient neurological disturbances may occur .
These include circumoral paresthesia or numbness , tingling or formication of the extremities , generalized pruritus , vertigo , dizziness , and slurring of speech .
For these reasons , patients should be warned not to drive vehicles or use hazardous machinery while on therapy .
Reduction of dosage may alleviate symptoms .
Therapy need not be discontinued , but such patients should be observed with particular care .
Nephrotoxicity can occur and is probably a dose - dependent effect of colistimethate sodium .
These manifestations of nephrotoxicity are reversible following discontinuation of the antibiotic .
Overdosage can result in renal insufficiency , muscle weakness , and apnea ( see OVERDOSAGE section ) .
See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions subsection for use concomitantly with other antibiotics and curariform drugs .
Respiratory arrest has been reported following intramuscular administration of colistimethate sodium .
Impaired renal function increases the possibility of apnea and neuromuscular blockade following administration of colistimethate sodium .
Therefore , it is important to follow recommended dosing guidelines .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section for use in renal impairment .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Coly - Mycin M Parenteral , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Since Coly - Mycin M Parenteral is eliminated mainly by renal excretion , it should be used with caution when the possibility of impaired renal function exists .
The decline in renal function with advanced age should be considered .
When actual renal impairment is present , Coly - Mycin M Parenteral may be used , but the greatest caution should be exercised and the dosage should be reduced in proportion to the extent of the impairment .
Administration of amounts of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral in excess of renal excretory capacity will lead to high serum levels and can result in further impairment of renal function , initiating a cycle which , if not recognized , can lead to acute renal insufficiency , renal shutdown , and further concentration of the antibiotic to toxic levels in the body .
At this point , interference of nerve transmission at neuromuscular junctions may occur and result in muscle weakness and apnea ( see OVERDOSAGE section ) .
Signs indicating the development of impaired renal function include : diminishing urine output , rising BUN and serum creatinine and decreased creatinine clearance .
Therapy with Coly - Mycin M Parenteral should be discontinued immediately if signs of impaired renal function occur .
However , if it is necessary to reinstate the drug , dosing should be adjusted accordingly after drug plasma levels have fallen ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Prescribing Coly - Mycin M in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Certain other antibiotics ( aminoglycosides and polymyxin ) have also been reported to interfere with the nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction .
Based on this reported activity , they should not be given concomitantly with Coly - Mycin M Parenteral except with the greatest caution .
Curariform muscle relaxants ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) and other drugs , including ether , succinylcholine , gallamine , decamethonium and sodium citrate , potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect and should be used with extreme caution in patients being treated with Coly - Mycin M Parenteral .
Sodium cephalothin may enhance the nephrotoxicity of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral .
The concomitant use of sodium cephalothin and Coly - Mycin M Parenteral should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal carcinogenicity studies and genetic toxicology studies have not been performed with colistimethate sodium .
There were no adverse effects on fertility or reproduction in rats at doses of 9 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 30 times the maximum daily human dose when based on mg / m2 ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Colistimethate sodium given intramuscularly during organogenesis to rabbits at 4 . 15 and 9 . 3 mg / kg resulted in talipes varus in 2 . 6 % and 2 . 9 % of fetuses , respectively .
These doses are 0 . 25 and 0 . 55 times the maximum daily human dose based on mg / m2 .
In addition , increased resorption occurred at 9 . 3 mg / kg .
Colistimethate sodium was not teratogenic in rats at 4 . 15 or 9 . 3 mg / kg .
These doses are 0 . 13 and 0 . 30 times the maximum daily human dose based on mg / m2 .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Since colistimethate sodium is transferred across the placental barrier in humans , it should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether colistimethate sodium is excreted in human breast milk .
However , colistin sulphate is excreted in human breast milk .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when colistimethate sodium is administered to nursing women .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of colistimethate sodium did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Pediatric Use In clinical studies , colistimethate sodium was administered to the pediatric population ( neonates , infants , children and adolescents ) .
Although adverse reactions appear to be similar in the adult and pediatric populations , subjective symptoms of toxicity may not be reported by pediatric patients .
Close clinical monitoring of pediatric patients is recommended .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Coly - Mycin M should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Coly - Mycin M is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Coly - Mycin M or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : Gastrointestinal : gastrointestinal upset Nervous System : tingling of extremities and tongue , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , paresthesia , and seizures Integumentary : generalized itching , urticaria and rash Body as a Whole : fever and anaphylaxis Laboratory Deviations : increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , elevated creatinine and decreased creatinine clearance Respiratory System : respiratory distress and apnea Renal System : nephrotoxicity and decreased urine output For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with colistimethate sodium can cause neuromuscular blockade characterized by paresthesia , lethargy , confusion , dizziness , ataxia , nystagmus , disorders of speech and apnea .
Respiratory muscle paralysis may lead to apnea , respiratory arrest and death .
Overdosage with the drug can also cause acute renal failure , manifested as decreased urine output and increases in serum concentrations of BUN and creatinine .
As in any case of overdose , colistimethate sodium therapy should be discontinued and general supportive measures should be utilized .
It is unknown whether colistimethate sodium can be removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in overdose cases .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important : Coly - Mycin M Parenteral is supplied in vials containing colistimethate sodium equivalent to 150 mg colistin base activity per vial .
Reconstitution for Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration : The 150 mg vial should be reconstituted with 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
The reconstituted solution provides colistimethate sodium at a concentration equivalent to 75 mg / mL colistin base activity .
During reconstitution swirl gently to avoid frothing .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If these conditions are observed , the product should not be used .
Dosage Adults and Pediatric Patients — Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration : The dose of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral should be 2 . 5 to 5 mg / kg per day of colistin base in 2 to 4 divided doses for patients with normal renal function , depending on the severity of the infection .
In obese individuals , dosage should be based on ideal body weight .
The daily dose and frequency should be reduced for the patients with renal impairment .
Suggested modifications of dosage schedule for patients with renal impairment are presented in Table 1 .
• TABLE 1 .
Suggested Modification of Dosage Schedules of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral for Adults with Impaired Renal Function Degree of Renal Impairment Normal Mild Moderate Severe Note : The suggested total daily dose is calculated from colistin base activity .
Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) ≥ 80 50 - 79 30 - 49 10 - 29 Dosage Schedule 2 . 5 – 5 mg / kg , divided into 2 to 4 doses per day 2 . 5 – 3 . 8 mg / kg , divided into 2 doses per day 2 . 5 mg / kg , once daily or divided into 2 doses per day 1 . 5 mg / kg every 36 hours INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION • 1 .
Direct Intermittent Administration — Slowly inject one - half of the total daily dose over a period of 3 to 5 minutes every 12 hours .
• 2 .
Continuous Infusion — Slowly inject one - half of the total daily dose over 3 to 5 minutes .
Add the remaining half of the total daily dose of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral to one of the following : 0 . 9 % NaCI 5 % dextrose in 0 . 9 % NaCl 5 % dextrose in water 5 % dextrose in 0 . 45 % NaCl 5 % dextrose in 0 . 225 % NaCl lactated Ringer ' s solution 10 % invert sugar solution There are not sufficient data to recommend usage of Coly - Mycin M Parenteral with other drugs or other than the above listed infusion solutions .
Administer the second half of the total daily dose by slow intravenous infusion , starting 1 to 2 hours after the initial dose , over the next 22 to 23 hours .
In the presence of impaired renal function , reduce the infusion rate depending on the degree of renal impairment .
The choice of intravenous solution and the volume to be employed are dictated by the requirements of fluid and electrolyte management .
Any final intravenous infusion solution containing colistimethate sodium should be freshly prepared and used for no longer than 24 hours .
INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION • 1 .
For intramuscular Injection , administer by deep intramuscular injection into a large muscle mass ( such as the gluteal muscles or lateral part of the thigh ) .
Store reconstituted solution for intramuscular injection in a refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) or between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) and use within 7 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Coly - Mycin M Parenteral is supplied in vials containing colistimethate sodium ( equivalent to 150 mg colistin base activity per vial ) as a white to slightly yellow lyophilized cake .
NDC 42023 - 107 - 01 : one individual vial .
NDC 42023 - 107 - 06 : six vials per carton .
Store unreconstituted product between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature . )
Store reconstituted solution in refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) or between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) and use within 7 days .
Rx only .
Distributed by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 R02 / 18 OS107J - 01 - 90 - 04 3000818 L PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mg Vial Carton NDC 42023 - 107 - 01 Coly - Mycin ® M Parenteral ( Colistimethate for Injection , USP 150 mg Colistin base activity For Intramuscular and Intravnous Use Rx Only 1 Vial PAR PHARMACEUTICAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
