A Topical Anesthetic for the Mucous Membranes of the Mouth and Pharynx .
For Oral Use Only .
Rx Only Lidocaine Ointment 2 % contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for specific uses .
Lidocaine Ointment 2 % contains lidocaine , which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , and has the following structural formula : C 14 H 22 N 2 O Molecular Weight 234 . 34 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Composition of Lidocaine Ointment 2 % : acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , ( lidocaine ) 2 % in a water miscible ointment vehicle containing polyethylene glycols and peppermint oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Mechanism of action Conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Onset of anesthesia Lidocaine Ointment 2 % effects local , topical anesthesia .
The onset of action is 3 - 5 minutes .
It is ineffective when applied to intact skin .
Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination halflife of this agent is typically1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 mcg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 mcg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
Lidocaine Ointment 2 % is indicated for production of anesthesia of accessible mucous membranes of the oropharynx .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of Lidocaine Ointment 2 % .
EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS , PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
Lidocaine Ointment 2 % should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
General The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug and / or its metabolites .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical condition .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine Ointment 2 % should be used with caution in patients with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to paraaminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for the management of malignant hyperthermia should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Information for Patients When topical anesthetics are used in the mouth , the patient should be aware that the production of topical anesthesia may impair swallowing and thus enhance the danger of aspiration .
For this reason , food should not be ingested for 60 minutes following the use of local anesthetic preparations in the mouth or throat area .
This is particularly important in children because of their frequency of eating .
Numbness of the tongue or buccal mucosa may enhance the danger of unintentional biting trauma .
Food and chewing gum should not be taken while the mouth or throat area is anesthetized .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Use in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Labor and Delivery Lidocaine is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should Lidocaine Ointment 2 % be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid overdosage when applying Lidocaine Ointment 2 % to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of lidocaine may be increased under such conditions .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central nervous system CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of local anesthetic emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
The oral LD 50 of lidocaine HCl in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 - 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 - 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
When Lidocaine Ointment 2 % is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Adult : The maximum recommended single dose of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP ( Viscous ) 2 % for healthy adults should be such that the dose of lidocaine HCI does not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg or 2 mg / lb body weight and does not in any case exceed a total of 300 mg .
For symptomatic treatment of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx , the usual adult dose is one 15 mL tablespoonful undiluted .
For use in the mouth , the solution should be swished around in the mouth and spit out .
For use in the pharynx , the undiluted solution should be gargled and may be swallowed .
This dose should not be administered at intervals of less than three hours , and not more than eight doses should be given in a 24 - hour period .
The dosage should be adjusted commensurate with the patient ' s age , weight and physical condition .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric : Care must be taken to ensure correct dosage in all pediatric patients as there have been cases of overdose due to inappropriate dosing .
It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development , the maximum dose is determined by the child ' s weight or age .
For example : in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 75 - 100 mg ( 3 . 7 to 5 mL of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP ( Viscous ) 2 % ) .
For infants and in children under 3 years of age , the solution should be accurately measured and no more than 1 . 2 mL be applied to the immediate area with a cotton - tipped applicator .
Wait at least 3 hours before giving the next dose ; a maximum of four doses may be given in a 12 - hour period .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP ( Viscous ) 2 % ) should only be used if the underlying condition requires treatment with a volume of product that is less than or equal to 1 . 2 mL .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP ( Viscous ) 2 % is a clear , viscous liquid with a very slight orange flavor available in 100 mL polyethylene squeeze bottles and in 15 mL unit dose in trays of ten cups .
The solution should be stored at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Made in U . S . A . Rev . 775 : 07 03 / 15 Principal Display Panel - Carton Only NDC 69938 - 202 - 22 Rx Only Medicated DNA Collection Kit Kit Contains : • Lidocaine 2 % ( Hi Tech Pharmacal ) NDC 50383 - 0775 - 15 • Lemon Glyceryn swabsticks • Plastic applicator • Pair of Sterile Exam Gloves • Face Mask • Sterile Drape [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
