Active Igredients Avobenzone 3 . 00 % ............. Sunscreen Octisalate 5 . 00 % ................... Sunscreen Octocrylene 2 . 75 % ............... Sunscreen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Uses Helps prevent sunburn Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection Warnings For external uses only .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
use in well ventilated areas .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store above 1200 F / 480 C .
Avoid long term storage above 1040 F / 400 C .
FLAMMABLE .
Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Directions Apply generously 30 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
Do not spray on face .
Spray on hands and rub well into face and scalp .
Reapply every 2 hours , or after swimming , excessive perspiration , towel drying or extended sun exposure .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Effective sun protection for children under 2 years of age is strongly recommended .
Other Information Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreen may reduce the risk of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
May stain clothing .
You may report serious adverse reactions to Report Reactions , LLC , PO Box 22 , Plainsboro , NJ 08536 - 0222 Inactive Ingredients SD Alcohol 40 , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Polyester - 8 , Cyclopentasiloxane , Diethylhexyl Syringylidene Malonate , Diisopropyl Adipate , Acrylates / Octylacrylamides Copolymer , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate Principle Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] MDSolarSciences SPF 40 with SolSciX Broad Spectrum UVA - UVB Sunscreen No Touch Body Spray EASY APPLICATION for Active Lifestyles Non - Greasy , Light and Quick Drying 148 mL - 5 . 0 Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional Carton Labeling NO TOUCH BODY SPRAY Easy Application , Non - Greasy and Quick Drying Sunscreen For Active Lifestyles Quick drying non - propellant spray Non - oily spray Broad Spectrum Protection UVB ( " Buring " rays " SPF 40 UVA ( " Aging " rays ) Formulated to meet European standards Also available from MDSolarSciences : Ultra Mineral Screeen Gel SPF 50 + Ultra - Sport Stick SPF 40 Mineral Screen Lotion SPF 40 Mineral Screen Gel SPF 30 + SDS - CT - 229 MDSolarSciences Corp www . mdsolarsciences . com 40 Richards Avenue , 3 rd Floor , Norwalk , CT 06854 Patent Pending UPC 8 55488 00200 4 A complete sun protection routine can help to reduce photo - aging and the incidence of skin cancer .
The use of broad spectrum ( UVA and UVB ) sunscreens is only one element of safer sun practices .
It is also important to take the following sun - safety measures : SUN SAFE TIPS : Wear Protective Clothing A long sleeved shirt , pants , a wide - brimmed har and sunglasses should be worn where possible Seek Shade Remember that the sun ' s rays are strongest between 10 am and 4 pm .
Learn the UV Index and be aware of the strength of the sun ' s rays .
Avoid Tanning Beds UV light from the sun and tanning beds may cause skin cancer and wrinkling Get Vitamin D Safely Add vitamin supplements to a healthy dient in consultation with your physician .
