Rx only .
FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , Cream and Topical Solution contain the topical corticosteroid , hydrocortisone butyrate , a non - fluorinated hydrocortisone ester .
It has the chemical name : 11β , 17 , 21 - Trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - butyrate ; the molecular formula : C25H36O6 ; the molecular weight : 432 . 54 ; and the CAS registry number : 13609 - 67 - 1 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % Each gram of hydrocortisone butyrate ointment contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a base consisting of mineral oil and polyethylene .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % Each gram of hydrocortisone butyrate cream contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a hydrophilic base consisting of anhydrous citric acid , cetomacrogol 1000 , cetostearyl alcohol , light mineral oil , propylparaben and butylparaben ( preservatives ) , purified water , sodium citrate anhydrous and white petrolatum .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % Each mL of hydrocortisone butyrate topical solution contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a vehicle consisting of citric acid monohydrate , glycerin , isopropyl alcohol ( 50 % v / v ) , povidone , purified water and sodium citrate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % and Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical corticosteroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Note : The animal multiples of human exposure calculations in this label were based on body surface area comparisons for an adult ( i . e . , mg / m2 / day dose comparisons ) assuming 100 % human percutaneous absorption of a maximum topical human dose ( MTHD ) for hydrocortisone butyrate cream , ointment and topical solution ( 25 g ) .
In a 2 - year dermal rat carcinogenicity study with hydrocortisone butyrate lotion , hydrocortisone butyrate was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 0 . 05 , 0 . 15 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males and 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 1 % lotion ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest doses evaluated in this study of 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males ( 0 . 1 × MTHD ) and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
Hydrocortisone butyrate revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames test and L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of fertility or effect on mating performance was observed in a fertility and general reproductive performance study conducted in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to and including 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 × MTHD ) .
Mild effects on maternal animals , such as reduced food consumption and a subsequent reduction in body weight gain , were seen at doses ≥ 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
Pregnancy Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 17 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , fetal effects noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 × MTHD ) included an increased incidence of ossification variations and unossified sternebra .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 5 . 4 and 1 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 2 × MTHD and 0 . 7 × MTHD , respectively ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 7 – 20 .
An increased incidence of abortion was noted at 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal body weight was noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 × MTHD ) .
Additional indicators of embryofetal toxicity ( reduction in litter size , decreased number of viable fetuses , increased post - implantation loss ) were noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
Additional fetal effects noted in this study included delayed ossification noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day and an increased incidence of fetal malformations ( primarily skeletal malformations ) noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were observed was not established in this study .
Additional systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and mice .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 and 9 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 9 – 15 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , an increase in fetal deaths and fetal resorptions and an increase in the number of ossifications in caudal vertebrae were noted at a dose of 9 mg / kg / day ( 3 × MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 × MTHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 2 and 1 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female mice during gestation days 7 – 13 .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , an increased number of cervical ribs and one fetus with clubbed legs were noted at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 1 and 0 . 2 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 0 . 2 × MTHD and 0 . 1 × MTHD , respectively ) .
No topical embryofetal development studies were conducted with hydrocortisone butyrate cream and hydrocortisone butyrate topical solution .
However , topical embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with a hydrocortisone butyrate ointment formulation .
Topical doses of 1 % and 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 15 or pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 6 – 18 .
A dose - dependent increase in fetal resorptions was noted in rabbits ( 0 . 2 – 2 × MTHD ) and fetal resorptions were noted in rats at the 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose ( 80 × MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at the 1 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose in rats ( 8 × MTHD ) .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were observed in rabbits after topical administration of hydrocortisone butyrate ointment was not established in this study .
No treatment - related effects on teratogenicity were noted at a dose of 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment in rats or rabbits ( 80 × MTHD and 2 × MTHD , respectively ) .
A peri - and post - natal development study was conducted in rats .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats from gestation day 6 – lactation day 20 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal weight was noted at doses ≥ 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 × MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on fetal toxicity were noted at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 × MTHD ) .
A delay in sexual maturation was noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 × MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on sexual maturation were noted at 1 . 8 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related effects on behavioral development or subsequent reproductive performance were noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk , in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % or Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % should be applied to the affected area as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % should be applied to the affected area as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % is supplied in tubes containing : 5 g NDC 51672 - 4083 - 5 ( as physician samples ) 10 g NDC 51672 - 4083 - 7 15 g NDC 51672 - 4083 - 1 30 g NDC 51672 - 4083 - 2 45 g NDC 51672 - 4083 - 6 Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied in tubes containing : 5 g NDC 51672 - 4074 - 5 ( as physician samples ) 10 g NDC 51672 - 4074 - 7 15 g NDC 51672 - 4074 - 1 30 g NDC 51672 - 4074 - 2 45 g NDC 51672 - 4074 - 6 Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is supplied in polyethylene bottles containing : 20 mL NDC 51672 - 4061 - 2 60 mL NDC 51672 - 4061 - 4 STORAGE Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 2624761 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : March 2021 5200533 - 0321 - 3 305 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Bottle Carton 20 mL NDC 51672 - 4061 - 2 Hydrocortisone Butyrate Topical Solution 0 . 1 % NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton - Cream NDC 51672 - 4074 - 1 15 g Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton - Ointment NDC 51672 - 4083 - 1 15 g Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment 0 . 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
