WARNING : FATAL INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS , SEVERE MUCOCUTANEOUS REACTIONS , HEPATITIS B VIRUS REACTIVATION and PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY WARNING : FATAL INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS , SEVERE MUCOCUTANEOUS REACTIONS , HEPATITIS B VIRUS REACTIVATION and PROGRESSIVE MULTIFOCAL LEUKOENCEPHALOPATHY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Fatal infusion - related reactions within 24 hours of rituximab infusion ; approximately 80 % of fatal reactions occurred with first infusion .
Monitor patients and discontinue RIABNI infusion for severe reactions ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Severe mucocutaneous reactions , some with fatal outcomes ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation , in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) resulting in death ( 5 . 4 ) .
Infusion - Related Reactions Administration of rituximab products can result in serious , including fatal , infusion - related reactions .
Deaths within 24 hours of rituximab infusion have occurred .
Approximately 80 % of fatal infusion - related reactions occurred in association with the first infusion .
Monitor patients closely .
Discontinue RIABNI infusion for severe reactions and provide medical treatment for Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Severe , including fatal , mucocutaneous reactions can occur in patients receiving rituximab products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation HBV reactivation can occur in patients treated with rituximab products , in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death .
Screen all patients for HBV infection before treatment initiation and monitor patients during and after treatment with RIABNI .
Discontinue RIABNI and concomitant medications in the event of HBV reactivation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) , including fatal PML , can occur in patients receiving rituximab products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
Indications and Usage , Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) ( 1 . 3 ) 6 / 2022 Dosage and Administration , Recommended Dose for Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) ( 2 . 5 ) 6 / 2022 Dosage and Administration , Administration and Storage ( 2 . 8 ) 6 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 , 5 . 12 , 5 . 13 ) 6 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIABNI is a CD20 - directed cytolytic antibody indicated for the treatment of : • Adult patients with non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) ( 1 . 1 ) .
• Relapsed or refractory , low grade or follicular , CD20 - positive B - cell NHL as a single agent .
• Previously untreated follicular , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL in combination with first line chemotherapy and , in patients achieving a complete or partial response to a rituximab product in combination with chemotherapy , as single - agent maintenance therapy .
• Non - progressing ( including stable disease ) , low - grade , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL as a single agent after first - line cyclophosphamide , vincristine , and prednisone ( CVP ) chemotherapy .
• Previously untreated diffuse large B - cell , CD20 - positive NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , and prednisone ( CHOP ) or other anthracycline - based chemotherapy regimens .
• Adult patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) ( 1 . 2 ) .
• Previously untreated and previously treated CD20 - positive CLL in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide ( FC ) .
• Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) in combination with methotrexate in adult patients with moderately - to severely - active RA who have inadequate response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies ( 1 . 3 ) .
• Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) in adult patients in combination with glucocorticoids ( 1 . 3 ) .
1 . 1 Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) RIABNI is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with : • Relapsed or refractory , low - grade or follicular , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL as a single agent .
• Previously untreated follicular , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL in combination with first line chemotherapy and , in patients achieving a complete or partial response to a rituximab product in combination with chemotherapy , as single - agent maintenance therapy .
• Non - progressing ( including stable disease ) , low - grade , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL as a single agent after first - line cyclophosphamide , vincristine , and prednisone ( CVP ) chemotherapy .
• Previously untreated diffuse large B - cell , CD20 - positive NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , prednisone ( CHOP ) or other anthracycline - based chemotherapy regimens .
1 . 2 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) RIABNI , in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide ( FC ) , is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated and previously treated CD20 - positive CLL .
1 . 3 Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) RIABNI , in combination with methotrexate , is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately - to severely - active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies .
1 . 4 Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) RIABNI , in combination with glucocorticoids , is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer only as an intravenous infusion ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus ( 2 . 1 ) .
• RIABNI should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage severe infusion - related reactions that can be fatal if they occur ( 2 . 1 ) .
• The dose for adult B - cell NHL is 375 mg / m2 ( 2 . 2 ) .
• The dose for CLL is 375 mg / m2 in the first cycle and 500 mg / m2 in cycles 2 – 6 , in combination with FC , administered every 28 days ( 2 . 3 ) .
• The dose as a component of Zevalin ® ( ibritumomab tiuxetan ) Therapeutic Regimen is 250 mg / m2 ( 2 . 4 ) .
• The dose for RA in combination with methotrexate is two - 1 , 000 mg intravenous infusions separated by 2 weeks ( one course ) every 24 weeks or based on clinical evaluation , but not sooner than every 16 weeks .
Methylprednisolone 100 mg intravenous or equivalent glucocorticoid is recommended 30 minutes prior to each infusion ( 2 . 5 ) .
• The induction dose for adult patients with active GPA and MPA in combination with glucocorticoids is 375 mg / m2 once weekly for 4 weeks .
The follow up dose for adult patients with GPA and MPA who have achieved disease control with induction treatment , in combination with glucocorticoids is two 500 mg intravenous infusions separated by two weeks , followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months thereafter based on clinical evaluation ( 2 . 6 ) .
2 . 1 Important Dosing Information Administer only as an intravenous infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus .
RIABNI should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage severe infusion - related reactions that can be fatal if they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Premedicate before each infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Prior to First Infusion Screen all patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc before initiating treatment with RIABNI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Obtain complete blood counts ( CBC ) including platelets prior to the first dose .
During RIABNI Therapy In patients with lymphoid malignancies during treatment with RIABNI monotherapy , obtain complete blood counts ( CBC ) with differential and platelet counts prior to each RIABNI course .
During treatment with RIABNI and chemotherapy , obtain CBC with differential and platelet counts at weekly to monthly intervals and more frequently in patients who develop cytopenias [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In patients with RA , GPA or MPA , obtain CBC with differential and platelet counts at two to four month intervals during RIABNI therapy .
Continue to monitor for cytopenias after final dose and until resolution .
• First Infusion : Standard Infusion : Initiate infusion at a rate of 50 mg / hour .
In the absence of infusion toxicity , increase infusion rate by 50 mg / hour increments every 30 minutes , to a maximum of 400 mg / hour .
• Subsequent Infusions : Standard Infusion : Initiate infusion at a rate of 100 mg / hour .
In the absence of infusion toxicity , increase rate by 100 mg / hour increments at 30 - minute intervals , to a maximum of 400 mg / hour .
For Previously Untreated Follicular NHL and DLBCL Adult Patients : If patients did not experience a Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related adverse event during Cycle 1 , a 90 - minute infusion can be administered in Cycle 2 with a glucocorticoid - containing chemotherapy regimen .
Initiate at a rate of 20 % of the total dose given in the first 30 minutes and the remaining 80 % of the total dose given over the next 60 minutes .
If the 90 - minute infusion is tolerated in Cycle 2 , the same rate can be used when administering the remainder of the treatment regimen ( through Cycle 6 or 8 ) .
Patients who have clinically significant cardiovascular disease or who have a circulating lymphocyte count greater than or equal to 5 , 000 / mm3 before Cycle 2 should not be administered the 90 - minute infusion [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
• Interrupt the infusion or slow the infusion rate for infusion - related reactions [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Continue the infusion at one - half the previous rate upon improvement of symptoms .
2 . 2 Recommended Dose for Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) The recommended dose is 375 mg / m2 as an intravenous infusion according to the following schedules : • Relapsed or Refractory , Low - Grade or Follicular , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL Administer once weekly for 4 or 8 doses .
• Retreatment for Relapsed or Refractory , Low - Grade or Follicular , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL Administer once weekly for 4 doses .
• Previously Untreated , Follicular , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL Administer on Day 1 of each cycle of chemotherapy , for up to 8 doses .
In patients with complete or partial response , initiate RIABNI maintenance eight weeks following completion of a rituximab product in combination with chemotherapy .
Administer RIABNI as a single - agent every 8 weeks for 12 doses .
• Non - progressing , Low - Grade , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL , after first - line CVP chemotherapy Following completion of 6 – 8 cycles of CVP chemotherapy , administer once weekly for 4 doses at 6 - month intervals to a maximum of 16 doses .
• Diffuse Large B - Cell NHL Administer on Day 1 of each cycle of chemotherapy for up to 8 infusions .
2 . 3 Recommended Dose for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) The recommended dose is 375 mg / m2 the day prior to the initiation of FC chemotherapy , then 500 mg / m2 on Day 1 of cycles 2 – 6 ( every 28 days ) .
2 . 4 Recommended Dose as a Component of Zevalin ® for Treatment of NHL When used as part of the Zevalin therapeutic regimen , infuse 250 mg / m2 in accordance with the Zevalin package insert .
Refer to the Zevalin package insert for full prescribing information regarding the Zevalin therapeutic regimen .
2 . 5 Recommended Dose for Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) • Administer RIABNI as two - 1 , 000 mg intravenous infusions separated by 2 weeks .
• Glucocorticoids administered as methylprednisolone 100 mg intravenous or its equivalent 30 minutes prior to each infusion are recommended to reduce the incidence and severity of infusion - related reactions .
• Subsequent courses should be administered every 24 weeks or based on clinical evaluation , but not sooner than every 16 weeks .
• RIABNI is given in combination with methotrexate .
2 . 6 Recommended Dose for Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) Induction Treatment of Adult Patients with Active GPA / MPA • Administer RIABNI as a 375 mg / m2 intravenous infusion once weekly for 4 weeks for patients with active GPA or MPA .
• Glucocorticoids administered as methylprednisolone 1 , 000 mg intravenously per day for 1 to 3 days followed by oral prednisone as per clinical practice .
This regimen should begin within 14 days prior to or with the initiation of RIABNI and may continue during and after the 4 week induction course of RIABNI treatment .
Follow up Treatment of Adult Patients with GPA / MPA who have Achieved Disease Control with Induction Treatment • Administer RIABNI as two 500 mg intravenous infusions separated by two weeks , followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months thereafter based on clinical evaluation .
• If induction treatment of active disease was with a rituximab product , initiate follow up treatment with RIABNI within 24 weeks after the last induction infusion with a rituximab product or based on clinical evaluation , but no sooner than 16 weeks after the last induction infusion with a rituximab product .
• If induction treatment of active disease was with other standard of care immunosuppressants , initiate RIABNI follow up treatment within the 4 week period that follows achievement of disease control .
2 . 7 Recommended Dose for Premedication and Prophylactic Medications Premedicate with acetaminophen and an antihistamine before each infusion of RIABNI .
For adult patients administered RIABNI according to the 90 - minute infusion rate , the glucocorticoid component of their chemotherapy regimen should be administered prior to infusion [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
For RA , GPA , and MPA patients , methylprednisolone 100 mg intravenously or its equivalent is recommended 30 minutes prior to each infusion .
Provide prophylaxis treatment for Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia ( PCP ) and herpes virus infections for patients with CLL during treatment and for up to 12 months following treatment as appropriate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
PCP prophylaxis is also recommended for patients with GPA and MPA during treatment and for at least 6 months following the last RIABNI infusion .
2 . 8 Administration and Storage Use appropriate aseptic technique .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
RIABNI should be a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow liquid .
Do not use vial if particulates or discoloration is present .
Administration Use a sterile needle and syringe to prepare RIABNI .
Withdraw the necessary amount of RIABNI and dilute to a final concentration of 1 mg / mL to 4 mg / mL in an infusion bag containing either 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
Gently invert the bag to mix the solution .
Do not mix or dilute with other drugs .
Discard any unused portion left in the vial .
Storage If not used immediately , store diluted RIABNI solutions as shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Diluted RIABNI Solution Storage ConditionsDiluent Used to Prepare Solution for Infusion Diluted RIABNI Solution Storage Conditions 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Store RIABNI solution diluted in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 7 days after preparation and protect from light .
5 % Dextrose Injection , USP Store RIABNI solution diluted in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours after preparation .
No incompatibilities between RIABNI and polyvinylchloride or polyethylene bags have been observed .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) and 500 mg / 50 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) as a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
• Injection : 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) and 500 mg / 50 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) solution in single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tumor lysis syndrome : Administer aggressive intravenous hydration , anti - hyperuricemic agents , monitor renal function ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Infections : Withhold RIABNI and institute appropriate anti - infective therapy ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Cardiac adverse reactions : Discontinue infusions in case of serious or life - threatening events ( 5 . 7 ) .
• Renal toxicity : Discontinue in patients with rising serum creatinine or oliguria ( 5 . 8 ) .
• Bowel obstruction and perforation : Consider and evaluate for abdominal pain , vomiting , or related symptoms ( 5 . 9 ) .
• Immunizations : Live virus vaccinations prior to or during RIABNI treatment is not recommended ( 5 . 10 ) .
• Embryo - Fetal toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception ( 5 . 11 ) .
5 . 1 Infusion - Related Reactions Rituximab products can cause severe , including fatal , infusion - related reactions .
Severe reactions typically occurred during the first infusion with time to onset of 30 – 120 minutes .
Rituximab product - induced infusion - related reactions and sequelae include urticaria , hypotension , angioedema , hypoxia , bronchospasm , pulmonary infiltrates , acute respiratory distress syndrome , myocardial infarction , ventricular fibrillation , cardiogenic shock , anaphylactoid events , or death .
Premedicate patients with an antihistamine and acetaminophen prior to dosing .
For RA , GPA and MPA patients , methylprednisolone 100 mg intravenously or its equivalent is recommended 30 minutes prior to each infusion .
Institute medical management ( e . g . , glucocorticoids , epinephrine , bronchodilators , or oxygen ) for infusion - related reactions as needed .
Depending on the severity of the infusion - related reaction and the required interventions , temporarily or permanently discontinue RIABNI .
Resume infusion at a minimum 50 % reduction in rate after symptoms have resolved .
Closely monitor the following patients : those with pre - existing cardiac or pulmonary conditions , those who experienced prior cardiopulmonary adverse reactions , and those with high numbers of circulating malignant cells ( greater than or equal to 25 , 000 / mm3 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Mucocutaneous reactions , some with fatal outcome , can occur in patients treated with rituximab products .
These reactions include paraneoplastic pemphigus , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , lichenoid dermatitis , vesiculobullous dermatitis , and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
The onset of these reactions has been variable and includes reports with onset on the first day of rituximab exposure .
Discontinue RIABNI in patients who experience a severe mucocutaneous reaction .
The safety of re - administration of rituximab products to patients with severe mucocutaneous reactions has not been determined .
5 . 3 Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation , in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure and death , can occur in patients treated with drugs classified as CD20 - directed cytolytic antibodies , including rituximab products .
Cases have been reported in patients who are hepatitis B surface antigen ( HBsAg ) positive and also in patients who are HBsAg negative but are hepatitis B core antibody ( anti - HBc ) positive .
Reactivation also has occurred in patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection ( i . e . , HBsAg negative , anti - HBc positive and hepatitis B surface antibody [ anti - HBs ] positive ) .
HBV reactivation is defined as an abrupt increase in HBV replication manifesting as a rapid increase in serum HBV DNA levels or detection of HBsAg in a person who was previously HBsAg negative and anti - HBc positive .
Reactivation of HBV replication is often followed by hepatitis , i . e . , increase in transaminase levels .
In severe cases increase in bilirubin levels , liver failure , and death can occur .
Screen all patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc before initiating treatment with RIABNI .
For patients who show evidence of prior hepatitis B infection ( HBsAg positive [ regardless of antibody status ] or HBsAg negative but anti - HBc positive ) , consult with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for HBV antiviral therapy before and / or during RIABNI treatment .
Monitor patients with evidence of current or prior HBV infection for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis or HBV reactivation during and for several months following RIABNI therapy .
HBV reactivation has been reported up to 24 months following completion of rituximab therapy .
In patients who develop reactivation of HBV while on RIABNI , immediately discontinue RIABNI and any concomitant chemotherapy , and institute appropriate treatment .
Insufficient data exist regarding the safety of resuming RIABNI treatment in patients who develop HBV reactivation .
Resumption of RIABNI treatment in patients whose HBV reactivation resolves should be discussed with physicians with expertise in managing HBV .
5 . 4 Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) JC virus infection resulting in PML and death can occur in rituximab product - treated patients with hematologic malignancies or with autoimmune diseases .
The majority of patients with hematologic malignancies diagnosed with PML received rituximab in combination with chemotherapy or as part of a hematopoietic stem cell transplant .
The patients with autoimmune diseases had prior or concurrent immunosuppressive therapy .
Most cases of PML were diagnosed within 12 months of their last infusion of rituximab .
Consider the diagnosis of PML in any patient presenting with new - onset neurologic manifestations .
Evaluation of PML includes , but is not limited to , consultation with a neurologist , brain MRI , and lumbar puncture .
Discontinue RIABNI and consider discontinuation or reduction of any concomitant chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy in patients who develop PML .
5 . 5 Tumor Lysis Syndrome ( TLS ) Acute renal failure , hyperkalemia , hypocalcemia , hyperuricemia , or hyperphosphatemia from tumor lysis , sometimes fatal , can occur within 12 – 24 hours after the first infusion of rituximab products in patients with NHL .
A high number of circulating malignant cells ( greater than or equal to 25 , 000 / mm3 ) or high tumor burden , confers a greater risk of TLS .
Administer aggressive intravenous hydration and anti - hyperuricemic therapy in patients at high risk for TLS .
Correct electrolyte abnormalities , monitor renal function and fluid balance , and administer supportive care , including dialysis as indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 6 Infections Serious , including fatal , bacterial , fungal , and new or reactivated viral infections can occur during and following the completion of rituximab product - based therapy .
Infections have been reported in some patients with prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia ( defined as hypogammaglobulinemia greater than 11 months after rituximab exposure ) .
New or reactivated viral infections included cytomegalovirus , herpes simplex virus , parvovirus B19 , varicella zoster virus , West Nile virus , and hepatitis B and C . Discontinue RIABNI for serious infections and institute appropriate anti - infective therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
RIABNI is not recommended for use in patients with severe , active infections .
5 . 7 Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions Cardiac adverse reactions , including ventricular fibrillation , myocardial infarction , and cardiogenic shock may occur in patients receiving rituximab products .
Discontinue infusions for serious or life - threatening cardiac arrhythmias .
Perform cardiac monitoring during and after all infusions of RIABNI for patients who develop clinically significant arrhythmias , or who have a history of arrhythmia or angina [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Renal Toxicity Severe , including fatal , renal toxicity can occur after rituximab product administration in patients with NHL .
Renal toxicity has occurred in patients who experience tumor lysis syndrome and in patients with NHL administered concomitant cisplatin therapy during clinical trials .
The combination of cisplatin and RIABNI is not an approved treatment regimen .
Monitor closely for signs of renal failure and discontinue RIABNI in patients with a rising serum creatinine or oliguria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 9 Bowel Obstruction and Perforation Abdominal pain , bowel obstruction and perforation , in some cases leading to death , can occur in patients receiving rituximab products in combination with chemotherapy .
In postmarketing reports , the mean time to documented gastrointestinal perforation was 6 ( range 1 – 77 ) days in patients with NHL .
Evaluate if symptoms of obstruction such as abdominal pain or repeated vomiting occur .
5 . 10 Immunization The safety of immunization with live viral vaccines following rituximab product therapy has not been studied and vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended before or during treatment .
For patients treated with RIABNI , physicians should review the patient ' s vaccination status and patients should , if possible , be brought up - to - date with all immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating RIABNI and administer non - live vaccines at least 4 weeks prior to a course of RIABNI .
The effect of rituximab on immune responses was assessed in a randomized , controlled study in patients with RA treated with rituximab and methotrexate ( MTX ) compared to patients treated with MTX alone .
A response to pneumococcal vaccination ( a T - cell independent antigen ) as measured by an increase in antibody titers to at least 6 of 12 serotypes was lower in patients treated with rituximab plus MTX as compared to patients treated with MTX alone ( 19 % vs . 61 % ) .
A lower proportion of patients in the rituximab plus MTX group developed detectable levels of anti - keyhole limpet hemocyanin antibodies ( a novel protein antigen ) after vaccination compared to patients on MTX alone ( 47 % vs . 93 % ) .
A positive response to tetanus toxoid vaccine ( a T - cell dependent antigen with existing immunity ) was similar in patients treated with rituximab plus MTX compared to patients on MTX alone ( 39 % vs . 42 % ) .
The proportion of patients maintaining a positive Candida skin test ( to evaluate delayed type hypersensitivity ) was also similar ( 77 % of patients on rituximab plus MTX vs . 70 % of patients on MTX alone ) .
Most patients in the rituximab - treated group had B - cell counts below the lower limit of normal at the time of immunization .
The clinical implications of these findings are not known .
5 . 11 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on human data , rituximab products can cause fetal harm due to B - cell lymphocytopenia in infants exposed in utero .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception while receiving RIABNI and for 12 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 12 Concomitant Use with Other Biologic Agents and DMARDS other than Methotrexate in RA , GPA and MPA Limited data are available on the safety of the use of biologic agents or disease modifying antirheumatic drugs ( DMARDs ) other than methotrexate in RA patients exhibiting peripheral B - cell depletion following treatment with rituximab .
Observe patients closely for signs of infection if biologic agents and / or DMARDs are used concomitantly .
Use of concomitant immunosuppressants other than corticosteroids has not been studied in GPA or MPA patients exhibiting peripheral B - cell depletion following treatment with rituximab products .
5 . 13 Use in RA Patients Who Have Not Had Prior Inadequate Response to Tumor Necrosis Factor ( TNF ) Antagonists While the efficacy of rituximab was supported in four controlled trials in patients with RA with prior inadequate responses to non - biologic DMARDs , and in a controlled trial in MTX - naïve patients , a favorable risk - benefit relationship has not been established in these populations .
The use of RIABNI in patients with RA who have not had prior inadequate response to one or more TNF antagonists is not recommended [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Severe mucocutaneous reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hepatitis B reactivation with fulminant hepatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Tumor lysis syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Cardiovascular adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Renal toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Bowel obstruction and perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Most common adverse reactions in clinical trials were : • NHL ( greater than or equal to 25 % ) : infusion - related reactions , fever , lymphopenia , chills , infection and asthenia ( 6 . 1 ) .
• CLL ( greater than or equal to 25 % ) : infusion - related reactions and neutropenia ( 6 . 1 ) .
• RA ( greater than or equal to 10 % ) : upper respiratory tract infection , nasopharyngitis , urinary tract infection , and bronchitis ( other important adverse reactions include infusion - related reactions , serious infections , and cardiovascular events ) ( 6 . 2 ) .
• GPA and MPA ( greater than or equal to 15 % ) : infections , nausea , diarrhea , headache , muscle spasms , anemia , peripheral edema , infusion - related reactions ( 6 . 2 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amgen , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
B - Cell Malignancies The data described below reflect exposure to rituximab in 3 , 092 patients , with exposures ranging from a single infusion up to 2 years .
Rituximab was studied in both single - arm and controlled trials ( n = 356 and n = 2 , 427 ) .
The population included 1 , 180 patients with low grade or follicular lymphoma , 927 patients with DLBCL , 676 patients with CLL , and 309 patients with another indication .
Most NHL patients received rituximab as an infusion of 375 mg / m2 per infusion , given as a single agent weekly for up to 8 doses , in combination with chemotherapy for up to 8 doses , or following chemotherapy for up to 16 doses .
CLL patients received rituximab 375 mg / m2 as an initial infusion followed by 500 mg / m2 for up to 5 doses , in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide .
Seventy - one percent of CLL patients received 6 cycles and 90 % received at least 3 cycles of rituximab - based therapy .
The most common adverse reactions of rituximab ( incidence greater than or equal to 25 % ) observed in clinical trials of patients with NHL were infusion - related reactions , fever , lymphopenia , chills , infection , and asthenia .
The most common adverse reactions of rituximab ( incidence greater than or equal to 25 % ) observed in clinical trials of patients with CLL were : infusion - related reactions and neutropenia .
Infusion - Related Reactions In the majority of patients with NHL , infusion - related reactions consisting of fever , chills / rigors , nausea , pruritus , angioedema , hypotension , headache , bronchospasm , urticaria , rash , vomiting , myalgia , dizziness , or hypertension occurred during the first rituximab infusion .
Infusion - related reactions typically occurred within 30 to 120 minutes of beginning the first infusion and resolved with slowing or interruption of the rituximab infusion and with supportive care ( diphenhydramine , acetaminophen , and intravenous saline ) .
The incidence of infusion - related reactions was highest during the first infusion ( 77 % ) and decreased with each subsequent infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In adult patients with previously untreated follicular NHL or previously untreated DLBCL , who did not experience a Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related reaction in Cycle 1 and received a 90 - minute infusion of rituximab at Cycle 2 , the incidence of Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related reactions on the day of , or day after the infusion was 1 . 1 % ( 95 % CI [ 0 . 3 % , 2 . 8 % ] ) .
For Cycles 2 - 8 , the incidence of Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related reactions on the day of or day after the 90 - minute infusion , was 2 . 8 % ( 95 % CI [ 1 . 3 % , 5 . 0 % ] ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
Infections Serious infections ( NCI - CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 ) , including sepsis , occurred in less than 5 % of patients with NHL in the single - arm studies .
The overall incidence of infections was 31 % ( bacterial 19 % , viral 10 % , unknown 6 % , and fungal 1 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
In randomized , controlled studies where rituximab was administered following chemotherapy for the treatment of follicular or low - grade NHL , the rate of infection was higher among patients who received rituximab .
In diffuse large B - cell lymphoma patients , viral infections occurred more frequently in those who received rituximab .
Cytopenias and Hypogammaglobulinemia In patients with NHL receiving rituximab monotherapy , NCI - CTC Grade 3 and 4 cytopenias were reported in 48 % of patients .
These included lymphopenia ( 40 % ) , neutropenia ( 6 % ) , leukopenia ( 4 % ) , anemia ( 3 % ) , and thrombocytopenia ( 2 % ) .
The median duration of lymphopenia was 14 days ( range , 1 – 588 days ) and of neutropenia was 13 days ( range , 2 – 116 days ) .
A single occurrence of transient aplastic anemia ( pure red cell aplasia ) and two occurrences of hemolytic anemia following rituximab therapy occurred during the single - arm studies .
In studies of monotherapy , rituximab - induced B - cell depletion occurred in 70 % to 80 % of patients with NHL .
Decreased IgM and IgG serum levels occurred in 14 % of these patients .
In CLL trials , the frequency of prolonged neutropenia and late - onset neutropenia was higher in patients treated with rituximab in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide ( R - FC ) compared to patients treated with FC .
Prolonged neutropenia is defined as Grade 3 - 4 neutropenia that has not resolved between 24 and 42 days after the last dose of study treatment .
Late - onset neutropenia is defined as Grade 3 - 4 neutropenia starting at least 42 days after the last treatment dose .
In patients with previously untreated CLL , the frequency of prolonged neutropenia was 8 . 5 % for patients who received R - FC ( n = 402 ) and 5 . 8 % for patients who received FC ( n = 398 ) .
In patients who did not have prolonged neutropenia , the frequency of late - onset neutropenia was 14 . 8 % of 209 patients who received R - FC and 4 . 3 % of 230 patients who received FC .
For patients with previously treated CLL , the frequency of prolonged neutropenia was 24 . 8 % for patients who received R - FC ( n = 274 ) and 19 . 1 % for patients who received FC ( n = 274 ) .
In patients who did not have prolonged neutropenia , the frequency of late - onset neutropenia was 38 . 7 % in 160 patients who received R - FC and 13 . 6 % of 147 patients who received FC .
Relapsed or Refractory , Low - Grade NHL Adverse reactions presented in Table 2 occurred in 356 patients with relapsed or refractory , low - grade or follicular , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL treated in single - arm studies of rituximab administered as a single agent [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Most patients received rituximab 375 mg / m2 weekly for 4 doses .
Table 2 .
Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Greater Than or Equal to 5 % of Patients with Relapsed or Refractory , Low - Grade or Follicular NHL , Receiving Single - agent Rituximab ( N = 356 ) [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] AllGrades ( % ) Grade 3 and4 ( % ) Any Adverse Reactions 99 57 Body as a Whole 86 10 Fever 53 1 Chills 33 3 Infection 31 4 Asthenia 26 1 Headache 19 1 Abdominal Pain 14 1 Pain 12 1 Back Pain 10 1 Throat Irritation 9 0 Flushing 5 0 Heme and Lymphatic System 67 48 Lymphopenia 48 40 Leukopenia 14 4 Neutropenia 14 6 Thrombocytopenia 12 2 Anemia 8 3 Skin and Appendages 44 2 Night Sweats 15 1 Rash 15 1 Pruritus 14 1 Urticaria 8 1 Respiratory System 38 4 Increased Cough 13 1 Rhinitis 12 1 Bronchospasm 8 1 Dyspnea 7 1 Sinusitis 6 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders 38 3 Angioedema 11 1 Hyperglycemia 9 1 Peripheral Edema 8 0 LDH Increase 7 0 Digestive System 37 2 Nausea 23 1 Diarrhea 10 1 Vomiting 10 1 Nervous System 32 1 Dizziness 10 1 Anxiety 5 1 Musculoskeletal System 26 3 Myalgia 10 1 Arthralgia 10 1 Cardiovascular System 25 3 Hypotension 10 1 Hypertension 6 1 [ 1 ] Adverse reactions observed up to 12 months following rituximab [ 2 ] Adverse reactions graded for severity by NCI - CTC criteria In these single - arm rituximab studies , bronchiolitis obliterans occurred during and up to 6 months after rituximab infusion .
Previously Untreated , Low - Grade or Follicular , NHL In NHL Study 4 , patients in the R - CVP arm experienced a higher incidence of infusional toxicity and neutropenia compared to patients in the CVP arm .
The following adverse reactions occurred more frequently ( greater than or equal to 5 % ) in patients receiving R - CVP compared to CVP alone : rash ( 17 % vs . 5 % ) , cough ( 15 % vs . 6 % ) , flushing ( 14 % vs . 3 % ) , rigors ( 10 % vs . 2 % ) , pruritus ( 10 % vs . 1 % ) , neutropenia ( 8 % vs . 3 % ) , and chest tightness ( 7 % vs . 1 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
In NHL Study 5 , detailed safety data collection was limited to serious adverse reactions , Grade greater than or equal to 2 infections , and Grade greater than or equal to 3 adverse reactions .
In patients receiving rituximab as single - agent maintenance therapy following rituximab plus chemotherapy , infections were reported more frequently compared to the observation arm ( 37 % vs . 22 % ) .
Grade 3 - 4 adverse reactions occurring at a higher incidence ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) in the rituximab group were infections ( 4 % vs . 1 % ) and neutropenia ( 4 % vs . less than 1 % ) .
In NHL Study 6 , the following adverse reactions were reported more frequently ( greater than or equal to 5 % ) in patients receiving rituximab following CVP compared to patients who received no further therapy : fatigue ( 39 % vs . 14 % ) , anemia ( 35 % vs . 20 % ) , peripheral sensory neuropathy ( 30 % vs . 18 % ) , infections ( 19 % vs . 9 % ) , pulmonary toxicity ( 18 % vs . 10 % ) , hepato - biliary toxicity ( 17 % vs . 7 % ) , rash and / or pruritus ( 17 % vs . 5 % ) , arthralgia ( 12 % vs . 3 % ) , and weight gain ( 11 % vs . 4 % ) .
Neutropenia was the only Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction that occurred more frequently ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) in the rituximab arm compared with those who received no further therapy ( 4 % vs . 1 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
DLBCL In NHL Studies 7 ( NCT00003150 ) and 8 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] , the following adverse reactions , regardless of severity , were reported more frequently ( greater than or equal to 5 % ) in patients age greater than or equal to 60 years receiving R - CHOP as compared to CHOP alone : pyrexia ( 56 % vs . 46 % ) , lung disorder ( 31 % vs . 24 % ) , cardiac disorder ( 29 % vs . 21 % ) , and chills ( 13 % vs . 4 % ) .
Detailed safety data collection in these studies was primarily limited to Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions and serious adverse reactions .
In NHL Study 8 , a review of cardiac toxicity determined that supraventricular arrhythmias or tachycardia accounted for most of the difference in cardiac disorders ( 4 . 5 % for R - CHOP vs . 1 . 0 % for CHOP ) .
The following Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions occurred more frequently among patients in the R - CHOP arm compared with those in the CHOP arm : thrombocytopenia ( 9 % vs . 7 % ) and lung disorder ( 6 % vs . 3 % ) .
Other Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions occurring more frequently among patients receiving R - CHOP were viral infection ( NHL Study 8 ) , neutropenia ( NHL Studies 8 and 9 ( NCT00064116 ) ) , and anemia ( NHL Study 9 ) .
CLL The data below reflect exposure to rituximab in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in 676 patients with CLL in CLL Study 1 ( NCT00281918 ) or CLL Study 2 ( NCT00090051 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
The age range was 30 – 83 years and 71 % were men .
Detailed safety data collection in CLL Study 1 was limited to Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions and serious adverse reactions .
Infusion - related adverse reactions were defined by any of the following adverse events occurring during or within 24 hours of the start of infusion : nausea , pyrexia , chills , hypotension , vomiting , and dyspnea .
In CLL Study 1 , the following Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions occurred more frequently in R - FC - treated patients compared to FC - treated patients : infusion - related reactions ( 9 % in R - FC arm ) , neutropenia ( 30 % vs . 19 % ) , febrile neutropenia ( 9 % vs . 6 % ) , leukopenia ( 23 % vs . 12 % ) , and pancytopenia ( 3 % vs . 1 % ) .
In CLL Study 2 , the following Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions occurred more frequently in R - FC - treated patients compared to FC - treated patients : infusion - related reactions ( 7 % in R - FC arm ) , neutropenia ( 49 % vs . 44 % ) , febrile neutropenia ( 15 % vs . 12 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 11 % vs . 9 % ) , hypotension ( 2 % vs . 0 % ) , and hepatitis B ( 2 % vs . < 1 % ) .
Fifty - nine percent of R - FC - treated patients experienced an infusion - related reaction of any severity .
Rheumatoid Arthritis The data presented below reflect the experience in 2578 RA patients treated with rituximab in controlled and long - term studies [ 1 ] with a total exposure of 5014 patient - years .
Among all exposed patients , adverse reactions reported in greater than 10 % of patients include infusion - related reactions , upper respiratory tract infection , nasopharyngitis , urinary tract infection , and bronchitis .
In placebo - controlled studies , patients received 2 × 500 mg or 2 × 1 , 000 mg intravenous infusions of rituximab or placebo , in combination with methotrexate , during a 24 - week period .
From these studies , 938 patients treated with rituximab ( 2 × 1 , 000 mg ) or placebo have been pooled ( see Table 3 ) .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients were hypertension , nausea , upper respiratory tract infection , arthralgia , pyrexia and pruritus ( see Table 3 ) .
The rates and types of adverse reactions in patients who received rituximab 2 × 500 mg were similar to those observed in patients who received rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg .
Table 3 [ 1 ] .
Incidence of All Adverse Reactions [ 2 ] Occurring in Greater Than or Equal to 2 % and at Least 1 % Greater than Placebo Among Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients in Clinical Studies Up to Week 24 ( Pooled ) Adverse Reactions Placebo + MTX N = 398 n ( % ) Rituximab + MTX N = 540 n ( % ) Hypertension 21 ( 5 ) 43 ( 8 ) Nausea 19 ( 5 ) 41 ( 8 ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 23 ( 6 ) 37 ( 7 ) Arthralgia 14 ( 4 ) 31 ( 6 ) Pyrexia 8 ( 2 ) 27 ( 5 ) Pruritus 5 ( 1 ) 26 ( 5 ) Chills 9 ( 2 ) 16 ( 3 ) Dyspepsia 3 ( < 1 ) 16 ( 3 ) Rhinitis 6 ( 2 ) 14 ( 3 ) Paresthesia 3 ( < 1 ) 12 ( 2 ) Urticaria 3 ( < 1 ) 12 ( 2 ) Abdominal Pain Upper 4 ( 1 ) 11 ( 2 ) Throat Irritation 0 ( 0 ) 11 ( 2 ) Anxiety 5 ( 1 ) 9 ( 2 ) Migraine 2 ( < 1 ) 9 ( 2 ) Asthenia 1 ( < 1 ) 9 ( 2 ) [ 1 ] These data are based on 938 patients treated in Phase 2 and 3 studies of rituximab ( 2 × 1 , 000 mg ) or placebo administered in combination with methotrexate .
[ 2 ] Coded using MedDRA .
Infusion - Related Reactions In the rituximab RA pooled placebo - controlled studies , 32 % of rituximab - treated patients experienced an adverse reaction during or within 24 hours following their first infusion , compared to 23 % of placebo - treated patients receiving their first infusion .
The incidence of adverse reactions during the 24 - hour period following the second infusion , rituximab or placebo , decreased to 11 % and 13 % , respectively .
Acute infusion - related reactions ( manifested by fever , chills , rigors , pruritus , urticaria / rash , angioedema , sneezing , throat irritation , cough , and / or bronchospasm , with or without associated hypotension or hypertension ) were experienced by 27 % of rituximab - treated patients following their first infusion , compared to 19 % of placebo - treated patients receiving their first placebo infusion .
The incidence of these acute infusion - related reactions following the second infusion of rituximab or placebo decreased to 9 % and 11 % , respectively .
Serious acute infusion - related reactions were experienced by less than 1 % of patients in either treatment group .
Acute infusion - related reactions required dose modification ( stopping , slowing , or interruption of the infusion ) in 10 % and 2 % of patients receiving rituximab or placebo , respectively , after the first course .
The proportion of patients experiencing acute infusion - related reactions decreased with subsequent courses of rituximab .
The administration of intravenous glucocorticoids prior to rituximab infusions reduced the incidence and severity of such reactions , however , there was no clear benefit from the administration of oral glucocorticoids for the prevention of acute infusion - related reactions .
Patients in clinical studies also received antihistamines and acetaminophen prior to rituximab infusions .
Infections In the pooled , placebo - controlled studies , 39 % of patients in the rituximab group experienced an infection of any type compared to 34 % of patients in the placebo group .
The most common infections were nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infections , urinary tract infections , bronchitis , and sinusitis .
The incidence of serious infections was 2 % in the rituximab - treated patients and 1 % in the placebo group .
In the experience with rituximab in 2 , 578 RA patients , the rate of serious infections was 4 . 31 per 100 patient years .
The most common serious infections ( greater than or equal to 0 . 5 % ) were pneumonia or lower respiratory tract infections , cellulitis and urinary tract infections .
Fatal serious infections included pneumonia , sepsis and colitis .
Rates of serious infection remained stable in patients receiving subsequent courses .
In 185 rituximab - treated RA patients with active disease , subsequent treatment with a biologic DMARD , the majority of which were TNF antagonists , did not appear to increase the rate of serious infection .
Thirteen serious infections were observed in 186 . 1 patient years ( 6 . 99 per 100 patient years ) prior to exposure and 10 were observed in 182 . 3 patient years ( 5 . 49 per 100 patient years ) after exposure .
Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions In the pooled , placebo - controlled studies , the proportion of patients with serious cardiovascular reactions was 1 . 7 % and 1 . 3 % in the rituximab and placebo treatment groups , respectively .
Three cardiovascular deaths occurred during the double - blind period of the RA studies including all rituximab regimens ( 3 / 769 = 0 . 4 % ) as compared to none in the placebo treatment group ( 0 / 389 ) .
In the experience with rituximab in 2 , 578 RA patients , the rate of serious cardiac reactions was 1 . 93 per 100 patient years .
The rate of myocardial infarction ( MI ) was 0 . 56 per 100 patient years ( 28 events in 26 patients ) , which is consistent with MI rates in the general RA population .
These rates did not increase over three courses of rituximab .
Since patients with RA are at increased risk for cardiovascular events compared with the general population , patients with RA should be monitored throughout the infusion and RIABNI should be discontinued in the event of a serious or life - threatening cardiac event .
Hypophosphatemia and Hyperuricemia In the pooled , placebo - controlled studies , newly - occurring hypophosphatemia ( less than 2 . 0 mg / dL ) was observed in 12 % ( 67 / 540 ) of patients on rituximab versus 10 % ( 39 / 398 ) of patients on placebo .
Hypophosphatemia was more common in patients who received corticosteroids .
Newly - occurring hyperuricemia ( greater than 10 mg / dL ) was observed in 1 . 5 % ( 8 / 540 ) of patients on rituximab versus 0 . 3 % ( 1 / 398 ) of patients on placebo .
In the experience with rituximab in RA patients , newly - occurring hypophosphatemia was observed in 21 % ( 528 / 2570 ) of patients and newly - occurring hyperuricemia was observed in 2 % ( 56 / 2570 ) of patients .
The majority of the observed hypophosphatemia occurred at the time of the infusions and was transient .
Retreatment in Patients with RA In the experience with rituximab in RA patients , 2 , 578 patients have been exposed to rituximab and have received up to 10 courses of rituximab in RA clinical trials , with 1 , 890 , 1 , 043 , and 425 patients having received at least two , three , and four courses , respectively .
Most of the patients who received additional courses did so 24 weeks or more after the previous course and none were retreated sooner than 16 weeks .
The rates and types of adverse reactions reported for subsequent courses of rituximab were similar to rates and types seen for a single course of rituximab .
In RA Study 2 , where all patients initially received rituximab , the safety profile of patients who were retreated with rituximab was similar to those who were retreated with placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) Induction Treatment of Adult Patients with Active GPA / MPA ( GPA / MPA Study 1 ) The data presented below from GPA / MPA Study 1 ( NCT00104299 ) reflect the experience in 197 adult patients with active GPA and MPA treated with rituximab or cyclophosphamide in a single controlled study , which was conducted in two phases : a 6 month randomized , double - blind , double - dummy , active - controlled remission induction phase and an additional 12 month remission maintenance phase [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
In the 6 - month remission induction phase , 197 patients with GPA and MPA were randomized to either rituximab 375 mg / m2 once weekly for 4 weeks plus glucocorticoids , or oral cyclophosphamide 2 mg / kg daily ( adjusted for renal function , white blood cell count , and other factors ) plus glucocorticoids to induce remission .
Once remission was achieved or at the end of the 6 - month remission induction period , the cyclophosphamide group received azathioprine to maintain remission .
The rituximab group did not receive additional therapy to maintain remission .
The primary analysis was at the end of the 6 - month remission induction period and the safety results for this period are described below .
Adverse reactions presented below in Table 4 were adverse events which occurred at a rate of greater than or equal to 10 % in the rituximab group .
This table reflects experience in 99 GPA and MPA patients treated with rituximab , with a total of 47 . 6 patient - years of observation and 98 GPA and MPA patients treated with cyclophosphamide , with a total of 47 . 0 patient - years of observation .
Infection was the most common category of adverse events reported ( 47 - 62 % ) and is discussed below .
Table 4 .
Incidence of All Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater Than or Equal to 10 % of Rituximab - treated Patients with Active GPA and MPA in the GPA / MPA Study 1 Up to Month 6 [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction Rituximab N = 99 n ( % ) Cyclophosphamide N = 98 n ( % ) Nausea 18 ( 18 % ) 20 ( 20 % ) Diarrhea 17 ( 17 % ) 12 ( 12 % ) Headache 17 ( 17 % ) 19 ( 19 % ) Muscle spasms 17 ( 17 % ) 15 ( 15 % ) Anemia 16 ( 16 % ) 20 ( 20 % ) Peripheral edema 16 ( 16 % ) 6 ( 6 % ) Insomnia 14 ( 14 % ) 12 ( 12 % ) Arthralgia 13 ( 13 % ) 9 ( 9 % ) Cough 13 ( 13 % ) 11 ( 11 % ) Fatigue 13 ( 13 % ) 21 ( 21 % ) Increased ALT 13 ( 13 % ) 15 ( 15 % ) Hypertension 12 ( 12 % ) 5 ( 5 % ) Epistaxis 11 ( 11 % ) 6 ( 6 % ) Dyspnea 10 ( 10 % ) 11 ( 11 % ) Leukopenia 10 ( 10 % ) 26 ( 27 % ) Rash 10 ( 10 % ) 17 ( 17 % ) [ 1 ] The study design allowed for crossover or treatment by best medical judgment , and 13 patients in each treatment group received a second therapy during the 6 month study period .
Infusion - Related Reactions Infusion - related reactions in GPA / MPA Study 1 were defined as any adverse event occurring within 24 hours of an infusion and considered to be infusion - related by investigators .
Among the 99 patients treated with rituximab , 12 % experienced at least one infusion - related reaction , compared with 11 % of the 98 patients in the cyclophosphamide group .
Infusion - related reactions included cytokine release syndrome , flushing , throat irritation , and tremor .
In the rituximab group , the proportion of patients experiencing an infusion - related reaction was 12 % , 5 % , 4 % , and 1 % following the first , second , third , and fourth infusions , respectively .
Patients were pre - medicated with antihistamine and acetaminophen before each rituximab infusion and were on background oral corticosteroids which may have mitigated or masked an infusion - related reaction ; however , there is insufficient evidence to determine whether premedication diminishes the frequency or severity of infusion - related reactions .
Infections In GPA / MPA Study 1 , 62 % ( 61 / 99 ) of patients in the rituximab group experienced an infection of any type compared to 47 % ( 46 / 98 ) patients in the cyclophosphamide group by Month 6 .
The most common infections in the rituximab group were upper respiratory tract infections , urinary tract infections , and herpes zoster .
The incidence of serious infections was 11 % in the rituximab - treated patients and 10 % in the cyclophosphamide treated patients , with rates of approximately 25 and 28 per 100 patient - years , respectively .
The most common serious infection was pneumonia .
Hypogammaglobulinemia Hypogammaglobulinemia ( IgA , IgG or IgM below the lower limit of normal ) has been observed in patients with GPA and MPA treated with rituximab in GPA / MPA Study 1 .
At 6 months , in the rituximab group , 27 % , 58 % and 51 % of patients with normal immunoglobulin levels at baseline , had low IgA , IgG and IgM levels , respectively compared to 25 % , 50 % and 46 % in the cyclophosphamide group .
Follow up Treatment of Adult Patients with GPA / MPA who have Achieved Disease Control with Induction Treatment ( GPA / MPA Study 2 ) In GPA / MPA Study 2 ( NCT00748644 ) , an open - label , controlled , clinical study [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] , evaluating the efficacy and safety of non - U . S . - licensed rituximab versus azathioprine as follow up treatment in adult patients with GPA , MPA or renal - limited ANCA - associated vasculitis who had achieved disease control after induction treatment with cyclophosphamide , a total of 57 GPA and MPA patients in disease remission received follow up treatment with two 500 mg intravenous infusions of non - U . S . - licensed rituximab , separated by two weeks on Day 1 and Day 15 , followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months for 18 months .
The safety profile was consistent with the safety profile for rituximab in RA , GPA and MPA .
Infusion - Related Reactions In GPA / MPA Study 2 , 7 / 57 ( 12 % ) patients in the non - U . S . - licensed rituximab arm reported infusion - related reactions .
The incidence of IRR symptoms was highest during or after the first infusion ( 9 % ) and decreased with subsequent infusions ( less than 4 % ) .
One patient had two serious IRRs , two IRRs led to a dose modification , and no IRRs were severe , fatal , or led to withdrawal from the study .
Infections In GPA / MPA Study 2 , 30 / 57 ( 53 % ) patients in the non - U . S . - licensed rituximab arm and 33 / 58 ( 57 % ) in the azathioprine arm reported infections .
The incidence of all grade infections was similar between the arms .
The incidence of serious infections was similar in both arms ( 12 % ) .
The most commonly reported serious infection in the group was mild or moderate bronchitis .
Long - term , Observational Study with Rituximab in Patients with GPA / MPA ( GPA / MPA Study 3 ) In a long - term observational safety study ( NCT01613599 ) , 97 patients with GPA or MPA received treatment with rituximab ( mean of 8 infusions [ range 1 - 28 ] ) for up to 4 years , according to physician standard practice and discretion .
Majority of patients received doses ranging from 500 mg to 1 , 000 mg , approximately every 6 months .
The safety profile was consistent with the safety profile for rituximab in RA , GPA and MPA .
[ 1 ] Pooled studies : NCT00074438 , NCT00422383 , NCT00468546 , NCT00299130 , NCT00282308 , NCT00266227 , NCT02693210 , NCT02093026 and NCT02097745 .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other rituximab products may be misleading .
Using an ELISA assay , anti - rituximab antibody was detected in 4 of 356 ( 1 . 1 % ) patients with low - grade or follicular NHL receiving single - agent rituximab .
Three of the four patients had an objective clinical response .
A total of 273 / 2578 ( 11 % ) patients with RA tested positive for anti - rituximab antibodies at any time after receiving rituximab .
Anti - rituximab antibody positivity was not associated with increased rates of infusion - related reactions or other adverse events .
Upon further treatment , the proportions of patients with infusion - related reactions were similar between anti - rituximab antibody positive and negative patients , and most reactions were mild to moderate .
Four anti - rituximab antibody positive patients had serious infusion - related reactions , and the temporal relationship between anti - rituximab antibody positivity and infusion - related reaction was variable .
A total of 23 / 99 ( 23 % ) rituximab - treated adult patients with GPA and MPA developed anti - rituximab antibodies by 18 months in GPA / MPA Study 1 .
The clinical relevance of anti - rituximab antibody formation in rituximab - treated adult patients is unclear .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of rituximab .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Hematologic : prolonged pancytopenia , marrow hypoplasia , Grade 3 - 4 prolonged or late - onset neutropenia , hyperviscosity syndrome in Waldenstrom ' s macroglobulinemia , prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Cardiac : fatal cardiac failure .
• Immune / Autoimmune Events : uveitis , optic neuritis , systemic vasculitis , pleuritis , lupus - like syndrome , serum sickness , polyarticular arthritis , and vasculitis with rash .
• Infection : viral infections , including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) , increase in fatal infections in HIV - associated lymphoma , and a reported increased incidence of Grade 3 and 4 infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Neoplasia : disease progression of Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
• Skin : severe mucocutaneous reactions , pyoderma gangrenosum ( including genital presentation ) .
• Gastrointestinal : bowel obstruction and perforation .
• Pulmonary : fatal bronchiolitis obliterans and fatal interstitial lung disease .
• Nervous system : Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome ( PRES ) / Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Formal drug interaction studies have not been performed with rituximab products .
In patients with CLL , rituximab did not alter systemic exposure to fludarabine or cyclophosphamide .
In clinical trials of patients with RA , concomitant administration of methotrexate or cyclophosphamide did not alter the pharmacokinetics of rituximab .
Renal toxicity when used in combination with cisplatin ( 5 . 8 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) .
• Geriatric Use : In CLL patients older than 70 years of age , exploratory analyses suggest no benefit with the addition of rituximab to FC ( 8 . 5 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on human data , rituximab products can cause adverse developmental outcomes including B - cell lymphocytopenia in infants exposed in utero ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of rituximab to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during the period of organogenesis caused lymphoid B - cell depletion in the newborn offspring at doses resulting in 80 % of the exposure ( based on AUC ) of those achieved following a dose of 2 grams in humans .
Advise pregnant women of the risk to a fetus .
Adverse outcomes in pregnancy occur regardless of the health of the mother or the use of medications .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
The estimated background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 % - 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % - 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Observe newborns and infants for signs of infection and manage accordingly .
Data Human Data Postmarketing data indicate that B - cell lymphocytopenia generally lasting less than 6 months can occur in infants exposed to rituximab in utero .
Rituximab was detected postnatally in the serum of infants exposed in utero .
Animal Data An embryo - fetal developmental toxicity study was performed on pregnant cynomolgus monkeys .
Pregnant animals received rituximab via the intravenous route during early gestation ( organogenesis period ; post coitum Days 20 through 50 ) .
Rituximab was administered as loading doses on post coitum ( PC ) Days 20 , 21 and 22 , at 15 , 37 . 5 or 75 mg / kg / day , and then weekly on PC Days 29 , 36 , 43 and 50 , at 20 , 50 or 100 mg / kg / week .
The 100 mg / kg / week dose resulted in 80 % of the exposure ( based on AUC ) of those achieved following a dose of 2 grams in humans .
Rituximab crosses the monkey placenta .
Exposed offspring did not exhibit any teratogenic effects but did have decreased lymphoid tissue B cells .
A subsequent pre - and postnatal reproductive toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys was completed to assess developmental effects including the recovery of B cells and immune function in infants exposed to rituximab in utero .
Animals were treated with a loading dose of 0 , 15 , or 75 mg / kg every day for 3 days , followed by weekly dosing with 0 , 20 , or 100 mg / kg dose .
Subsets of pregnant females were treated from PC Day 20 through postpartum Day 78 , PC Day 76 through PC Day 134 , and from PC Day 132 through delivery and postpartum Day 28 .
Regardless of the timing of treatment , decreased B cells and immunosuppression were noted in the offspring of rituximab - treated pregnant animals .
The B - cell counts returned to normal levels , and immunologic function was restored within 6 months postpartum .
8 . 2 Lactation There are limited data on the presence of rituximab in human milk and the effect on the breastfed child , and there are no data on the effect on milk production .
Rituximab is detected in the milk of lactating cynomolgus monkeys , and maternal IgG is present in human breast milk .
Rituximab has also been reported to be excreted at low concentrations in human breast milk .
Given that the clinical significance of this finding for children is not known , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with RIABNI and for 6 months after the last dose due to the potential of serious adverse reactions in breastfed children .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Rituximab products can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating RIABNI .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with RIABNI and for 12 months after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use A pediatric assessment for RIABNI demonstrates that RIABNI is safe and effective for pediatric patients in an indication for which Rituxan ( rituximab ) is approved .
However , RIABNI is not approved for such indication due to marketing exclusivity for Rituxan ( rituximab ) .
The safety and effectiveness of rituximab products , including RIABNI , have not been established in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age for GPA and MPA .
The safety and effectiveness of rituximab products , including RIABNI , have not been established in pediatric patients with CLL .
Rheumatoid Arthritis The safety and effectiveness of rituximab products have not been established in pediatric patients with RA .
Rituximab was not studied in pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis ( PJIA ) due to concerns regarding the potential for prolonged immunosuppression as a result of B - cell depletion in the developing juvenile immune system .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Diffuse Large B - Cell NHL Among patients with DLBCL evaluated in three randomized , active - controlled trials , 927 patients received rituximab in combination with chemotherapy .
Of these , 396 ( 43 % ) were age 65 or greater and 123 ( 13 % ) were age 75 or greater .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Cardiac adverse reactions , mostly supraventricular arrhythmias , occurred more frequently among elderly patients .
Serious pulmonary adverse reactions were also more common among the elderly , including pneumonia and pneumonitis .
Low - Grade or Follicular Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma Patients with previously untreated follicular NHL evaluated in NHL Study 5 were randomized to rituximab as single - agent maintenance therapy ( n = 505 ) or observation ( n = 513 ) after achieving a response to rituximab in combination with chemotherapy .
Of these , 123 ( 24 % ) patients in the rituximab arm were age 65 or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Other clinical studies of rituximab in low - grade or follicular , CD20 - positive , B - cell NHL did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Among patients with CLL evaluated in two randomized active - controlled trials , 243 of 676 rituximab - treated patients ( 36 % ) were 65 years of age or older ; of these , 100 rituximab - treated patients ( 15 % ) were 70 years of age or older .
In exploratory analyses defined by age , there was no observed benefit from the addition of rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide among patients 70 years of age or older in CLL Study 1 or in CLL Study 2 ; there was also no observed benefit from the addition of rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide among patients 65 years of age or older in CLL Study 2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Patients 70 years or older received lower dose intensity of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide compared to younger patients , regardless of the addition of rituximab .
In CLL Study 1 , the dose intensity of rituximab was similar in older and younger patients , however in CLL Study 2 older patients received a lower dose intensity of rituximab .
The incidence of Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions was higher among patients receiving R - FC who were 70 years or older compared to younger patients for neutropenia [ 44 % vs . 31 % ( CLL Study 1 ) ; 56 % vs . 39 % ( CLL Study 2 ) ] , febrile neutropenia [ 16 % vs . 6 % ( NHL Study 10 ( NCT00719472 ) ] , anemia [ 5 % vs . 2 % ( CLL Study 1 ) ; 21 % vs . 10 % ( CLL Study 2 ) ] , thrombocytopenia [ 19 % vs . 8 % ( CLL Study 2 ) ] , pancytopenia [ 7 % vs . 2 % ( CLL Study 1 ) ; 7 % vs . 2 % ( CLL Study 2 ) ] and infections [ 30 % vs . 14 % ( CLL Study 2 ) ] .
Rheumatoid Arthritis Among the 2 , 578 patients in global RA studies completed to date , 12 % were 65 – 75 years old and 2 % were 75 years old and older .
The incidences of adverse reactions were similar between older and younger patients .
The rates of serious adverse reactions , including serious infections , malignancies , and cardiovascular events were higher in older patients .
Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis Of the 99 rituximab - treated GPA and MPA patients in GPA / MPA Study 1 , 36 ( 36 % ) were 65 years old and over , while 8 ( 8 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in efficacy were observed between patients that were 65 years old and over and younger patients .
The overall incidence and rate of all serious adverse events was higher in patients 65 years old and over .
The clinical study did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In GPA / MPA Study 2 , 30 ( 26 % ) of the enrolled patients were at least 65 years old , of which 12 patients were exposed to non - U . S . - licensed rituximab and 18 were exposed to azathioprine .
The clinical study did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Rituximab - arrx is a genetically engineered chimeric murine / human monoclonal IgG1 kappa antibody directed against the CD20 antigen .
Rituximab - arrx has an approximate molecular weight of 145 kD .
Rituximab - arrx is produced in a mammalian cell ( Chinese Hamster Ovary ) suspension culture in a nutrient medium .
RIABNI ( rituximab - arrx ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution for intravenous infusion .
RIABNI is supplied at a concentration of 10 mg / mL in either 100 mg / 10 mL or 500 mg / 50 mL single - dose vials .
Each mL of solution contains 10 mg rituximab - arrx , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 7 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 9 mg ) , sodium citrate dihydrate ( 7 . 35 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
Hydrochloric acid is used to adjust the buffer solution pH . The pH is 6 . 5 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Rituximab - arrx is a monoclonal antibody .
Rituximab products target the CD20 antigen expressed on the surface of pre - B and mature B - lymphocytes .
Upon binding to CD20 , rituximab products mediate B - cell lysis .
Possible mechanisms of cell lysis include complement dependent cytotoxicity ( CDC ) and antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) .
B cells are believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) and associated chronic synovitis .
In this setting , B cells may be acting at multiple sites in the autoimmune / inflammatory process , including through production of rheumatoid factor ( RF ) and other autoantibodies , antigen presentation , T - cell activation , and / or proinflammatory cytokine production .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) In NHL patients , administration of rituximab resulted in depletion of circulating and tissue - based B cells .
Among 166 patients in NHL Study 1 ( NCT000168740 ) , circulating CD19 - positive B cells were depleted within the first three weeks with sustained depletion for up to 6 to 9 months post treatment in 83 % of patients .
B - cell recovery began at approximately 6 months and median B - cell levels returned to normal by 12 months following completion of treatment .
There were sustained and statistically significant reductions in both IgM and IgG serum levels observed from 5 through 11 months following rituximab administration ; 14 % of patients had IgM and / or IgG serum levels below the normal range .
Rheumatoid Arthritis In RA patients , treatment with rituximab induced depletion of peripheral B lymphocytes , with the majority of patients demonstrating near complete depletion ( CD19 counts below the lower limit of quantification , 20 cells / µL ) within 2 weeks after receiving the first dose of rituximab .
The majority of patients showed peripheral B - cell depletion for at least 6 months .
A small proportion of patients ( ~ 4 % ) had prolonged peripheral B - cell depletion lasting more than 3 years after a single course of treatment .
Total serum immunoglobulin levels , IgM , IgG , and IgA were reduced at 6 months with the greatest change observed in IgM .
At Week 24 of the first course of rituximab treatment , small proportions of patients experienced decreases in IgM ( 10 % ) , IgG ( 2 . 8 % ) , and IgA ( 0 . 8 % ) levels below the lower limit of normal ( LLN ) .
In the experience with rituximab in RA patients during repeated rituximab treatment , 23 . 3 % , 5 . 5 % , and 0 . 5 % of patients experienced decreases in IgM , IgG , and IgA concentrations below LLN at any time after receiving rituximab , respectively .
The clinical consequences of decreases in immunoglobulin levels in RA patients treated with rituximab are unclear .
Treatment with rituximab in patients with RA was associated with reduction of certain biologic markers of inflammation such as interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) , C - reactive protein ( CRP ) , serum amyloid protein ( SAA ) , S100 A8 / S100 A9 heterodimer complex ( S100 A8 / 9 ) , anti - citrullinated peptide ( anti - CCP ) , and RF .
Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis In GPA and MPA patients in GPA / MPA Study 1 , peripheral blood CD19 B - cells depleted to less than 10 cells / µL following the first two infusions of rituximab , and remained at that level in most ( 84 % ) patients through Month 6 .
By Month 12 , the majority of patients ( 81 % ) showed signs of B - cell return with counts greater than 10 cells / µL .
By Month 18 , most patients ( 87 % ) had counts greater than 10 cells / µL .
In GPA / MPA Study 2 where patients received non - U . S . - licensed rituximab as two 500 mg intravenous infusions separated by two weeks , followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion at Month 6 , 12 , and 18 , 70 % ( 30 out of 43 ) of the rituximab - treated patients with CD19 + peripheral B cells evaluated post - baseline had undetectable CD19 + peripheral B cells at Month 24 .
At Month 24 , all 37 patients with evaluable baseline CD19 + peripheral B cells and Month 24 measurements had lower CD19 + B cells relative to baseline .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) Pharmacokinetics were characterized in 203 NHL patients receiving 375 mg / m2 rituximab weekly by intravenous infusion for 4 doses .
Rituximab was detectable in the serum of patients 3 to 6 months after completion of treatment .
The pharmacokinetic profile of rituximab when administered as 6 infusions of 375 mg / m2 in combination with 6 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy was similar to that seen with rituximab alone .
Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 298 NHL patients who received rituximab once weekly or once every three weeks , the estimated median terminal elimination half - life was 22 days ( range , 6 . 1 to 52 days ) .
Patients with higher CD19 - positive cell counts or larger measurable tumor lesions at pretreatment had a higher clearance .
However , dose adjustment for pretreatment CD19 count or size of tumor lesion is not necessary .
Age and gender had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab .
Pharmacokinetics were characterized in 21 patients with CLL receiving rituximab according to the recommended dose and schedule .
The estimated median terminal half - life of rituximab was 32 days ( range , 14 to 62 days ) .
Rheumatoid Arthritis Following administration of 2 doses of rituximab in patients with RA , the mean ( ± S . D . ; % CV ) concentrations after the first infusion ( Cmax first ) and second infusion ( Cmax second ) were 157 ( ± 46 ; 29 % ) and 183 ( ± 55 ; 30 % ) mcg / mL , and 318 ( ± 86 ; 27 % ) and 381 ( ± 98 ; 26 % ) mcg / mL for the 2 × 500 mg and 2 × 1 , 000 mg doses , respectively .
Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 2 , 005 RA patients who received rituximab , the estimated clearance of rituximab was 0 . 335 L / day ; volume of distribution was 3 . 1 L and mean terminal elimination half - life was 18 . 0 days ( range , 5 . 17 to 77 . 5 days ) .
Age , weight and gender had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab in RA patients .
Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis The pharmacokinetic parameters in adult patients with GPA / MPA receiving 375 mg / m2 intravenous rituximab or non - U . S . - licensed rituximab once weekly for four doses are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Population PK in Adult Patients with GPA / MPAParameter Statistic GPA / MPA Study 1 N Number of Patients 97 Terminal Half - life ( days ) Median ( Range ) 25 ( 11 to 52 ) AUC0 - 180 d ( µg / mL * day ) Median ( Range ) 10 , 302 ( 3 , 653 to 21 , 874 ) Clearance ( L / day ) Median ( Range ) 0 . 279 ( 0 . 113 to 0 . 653 ) Volume of Distribution ( L ) Median ( Range ) 3 . 12 ( 2 . 42 to 3 . 91 ) The population PK analysis in adults with GPA and MPA showed that male patients and patients with higher BSA or positive anti - rituximab antibody levels have higher clearance .
However , further dose adjustment based on gender or anti - drug antibody status is not necessary .
Specific Populations The clearance and volume of distribution of rituximab increased with increasing body surface area ( BSA ) .
No formal studies were conducted to examine the effects of either renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab products .
Drug Interaction Studies Formal drug interaction studies have not been performed with rituximab products .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to establish the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of rituximab products or to determine potential effects on fertility in males or females .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Relapsed or Refractory , Low - Grade or Follicular , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL The safety and effectiveness of rituximab in relapsed , refractory CD20 + NHL were demonstrated in 3 single - arm studies enrolling 296 patients .
NHL Study 1 A multicenter , open - label , single - arm study was conducted in 166 patients with relapsed or refractory , low - grade or follicular , B - cell NHL who received 375 mg / m2 of rituximab given as an intravenous infusion weekly for 4 doses .
Patients with tumor masses > 10 cm or with > 5 , 000 lymphocytes / µL in the peripheral blood were excluded from the study .
Results are summarized in Table 6 .
The median time to onset of response was 50 days .
Disease - related signs and symptoms ( including B - symptoms ) resolved in 64 % ( 25 / 39 ) of those patients with such symptoms at study entry .
NHL Study 2 In a multicenter , single - arm study , 37 patients with relapsed or refractory , low - grade NHL received 375 mg / m2 of rituximab weekly for 8 doses .
Results are summarized in Table 6 .
NHL Study 3 In a multicenter , single - arm study , 60 patients received 375 mg / m2 of rituximab weekly for 4 doses .
All patients had relapsed or refractory , low - grade or follicular , B - cell NHL and had achieved an objective clinical response to rituximab administered 3 . 8 – 35 . 6 months ( median 14 . 5 months ) prior to retreatment with rituximab .
Of these 60 patients , 5 received more than one additional course of rituximab .
Results are summarized in Table 6 .
Bulky Disease In pooled data from studies 1 and 3 , 39 patients with bulky ( single lesion > 10 cm in diameter ) and relapsed or refractory , low - grade NHL received rituximab 375 mg / m2 weekly for 4 doses .
Results are summarized in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Summary of Rituximab Efficacy Data in NHL by Schedule and Clinical Setting Study 1 Weekly × N = 166 Study 2 Weekly × 8 N = 37 Study 1 and Study 3 Bulky disease , Weekly × 4 N = 39 [ 1 ] Study 3 Retreatment , Weekly × 4 N = 60 Overall Response Rate 48 % 57 % 36 % 38 % Complete Response Rate 6 % 14 % 3 % 10 % Median Duration of Response [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] 11 . 2 13 . 4 6 . 9 15 . 0 ( Months ) [ Range ] [ 1 . 9 to 42 . 1 + ] [ 2 . 5 to 36 . 5 + ] [ 2 . 8 to 25 . 0 + ] [ 3 . 0 to 25 . 1 + ] [ 1 ] Six of these patients are included in the first column .
Thus , data from 296 intent - to - treat patients are provided in this table .
[ 2 ] Kaplan - Meier projected with observed range .
[ 3 ] " + " indicates an ongoing response .
[ 4 ] Duration of response : interval from the onset of response to disease progression .
14 . 2 Previously Untreated , Low - Grade or Follicular , CD20 - Positive , B - Cell NHL The safety and effectiveness of rituximab in previously untreated , low - grade or follicular , CD20 + NHL were demonstrated in 3 randomized , controlled trials enrolling 1 , 662 patients .
NHL Study 4 A total of 322 patients with previously untreated follicular NHL were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive up to eight 3 - week cycles of CVP chemotherapy alone ( CVP ) or in combination with rituximab 375 mg / m2 on Day 1 of each cycle ( R - CVP ) in an open - label , multicenter study .
The main outcome measure of the study was progression - free survival ( PFS ) defined as the time from randomization to the first of progression , relapse , or death .
Twenty - six percent of the study population was > 60 years of age , 99 % had Stage III or IV disease , and 50 % had an International Prognostic Index ( IPI ) score greater than or equal to 2 .
The results for PFS as determined by a blinded , independent assessment of progression are presented in Table 7 .
The point estimates may be influenced by the presence of informative censoring .
The PFS results based on investigator assessment of progression were similar to those obtained by the independent review assessment .
Table 7 .
Efficacy Results in NHL Study 4 Study Arm R - CVP N = 162 CVP N = 160 Median PFS ( years ) [ 1 ] 2 . 4 1 . 4 Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] 0 . 44 ( 0 . 29 , 0 . 65 ) [ 1 ] p less than 0 . 0001 , two - sided stratified log - rank test .
[ 2 ] Estimates of Cox regression stratified by center .
NHL Study 5 An open - label , multicenter , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) study was conducted in 1 , 018 patients with previously untreated follicular NHL who achieved a response ( CR or PR ) to rituximab in combination with chemotherapy .
Patients were randomized to rituximab as single - agent maintenance therapy , 375 mg / m2 every 8 weeks for up to 12 doses or to observation .
Rituximab was initiated at 8 weeks following completion of chemotherapy .
The main outcome measure of the study was progression - free survival ( PFS ) , defined as the time from randomization in the maintenance / observation phase to progression , relapse , or death , as determined by independent review .
Of the randomized patients , 40 % were greater than or equal to 60 years of age , 70 % had Stage IV disease , 96 % had ECOG performance status ( PS ) 0 – 1 , and 42 % had FLIPI scores of 3 – 5 .
Prior to randomization to maintenance therapy , patients had received R - CHOP ( 75 % ) , R - CVP ( 22 % ) , or R - FCM ( 3 % ) ; 71 % had a complete or unconfirmed complete response and 28 % had a partial response .
PFS was longer in patients randomized to rituximab as single agent maintenance therapy ( HR : 0 . 54 , 95 % CI : 0 . 42 , 0 . 70 ; see Figure 1 ) .
The PFS results based on investigator assessment of progression were similar to those obtained by the independent review assessment .
Figure 1 .
Kaplan - Meier Plot of IRC Assessed PFS in NHL Study 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NHL Study 6 A total of 322 patients with previously untreated low - grade , B - cell NHL who did not progress after 6 or 8 cycles of CVP chemotherapy were enrolled in an open - label , multicenter , randomized trial .
Patients were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive rituximab , 375 mg / m2 intravenous infusion , once weekly for 4 doses every 6 months for up to 16 doses or no further therapeutic intervention .
The main outcome measure of the study was progression - free survival defined as the time from randomization to progression , relapse , or death .
Thirty - seven percent of the study population was greater than 60 years of age , 99 % had Stage III or IV disease , and 63 % had an IPI score greater than or equal to 2 .
There was a reduction in the risk of progression , relapse , or death ( hazard ratio estimate in the range of 0 . 36 to 0 . 49 ) for patients randomized to rituximab as compared to those who received no additional treatment .
14 . 3 Diffuse Large B - Cell NHL ( DLBCL ) The safety and effectiveness of rituximab were evaluated in three randomized , active - controlled , open - label , multicenter studies with a collective enrollment of 1 , 854 patients .
Patients with previously untreated diffuse large B - cell NHL received rituximab in combination with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , and prednisone ( CHOP ) or other anthracycline - based chemotherapy regimens .
NHL Study 7 A total of 632 patients age greater than or equal to 60 years with DLBCL ( including primary mediastinal B - cell lymphoma ) were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to treatment with CHOP or R - CHOP .
Patients received 6 or 8 cycles of CHOP , each cycle lasting 21 days .
All patients in the R - CHOP arm received 4 doses of rituximab 375 mg / m2 on Days – 7 and – 3 ( prior to Cycle 1 ) and 48 – 72 hours prior to Cycles 3 and 5 .
Patients who received 8 cycles of CHOP also received rituximab prior to Cycle 7 .
The main outcome measure of the study was progression - free survival , defined as the time from randomization to the first of progression , relapse , or death .
Responding patients underwent a second randomization to receive rituximab or no further therapy .
Among all enrolled patients , 62 % had centrally confirmed DLBCL histology , 73 % had Stage III – IV disease , 56 % had IPI scores greater than or equal to 2 , 86 % had ECOG performance status of < 2 , 57 % had elevated LDH levels , and 30 % had two or more extranodal disease sites involved .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 8 .
These results reflect a statistical approach which allows for an evaluation of rituximab administered in the induction setting that excludes any potential impact of rituximab given after the second randomization .
Analysis of results after the second randomization in NHL Study 7 demonstrates that for patients randomized to R - CHOP , additional rituximab exposure beyond induction was not associated with further improvements in progression - free survival or overall survival .
NHL Study 8 A total of 399 patients with DLBCL , age greater than or equal to 60 years , were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive CHOP or R - CHOP .
All patients received up to eight 3 - week cycles of CHOP induction ; patients in the R - CHOP arm received rituximab 375 mg / m2 on Day 1 of each cycle .
The main outcome measure of the study was event - free survival , defined as the time from randomization to relapse , progression , change in therapy , or death from any cause .
Among all enrolled patients , 80 % had Stage III or IV disease , 60 % of patients had an age - adjusted IPI greater than or equal to 2 , 80 % had ECOG performance status scores less than 2 , 66 % had elevated LDH levels , and 52 % had extranodal involvement in at least two sites .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 8 .
NHL Study 9 A total of 823 patients with DLBCL , aged 18 – 60 years , were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive an anthracycline - containing chemotherapy regimen alone or in combination with rituximab .
The main outcome measure of the study was time to treatment failure , defined as time from randomization to the earliest of progressive disease , failure to achieve a complete response , relapse , or death .
Among all enrolled patients , 28 % had Stage III – IV disease , 100 % had IPI scores of less than or equal to 1 , 99 % had ECOG performance status of less than 2 , 29 % had elevated LDH levels , 49 % had bulky disease , and 34 % had extranodal involvement .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 8 .
Table 8 .
Efficacy Results in NHL Studies 7 , 8 , and 9 Study 7 ( n = 632 ) Study 8 ( n = 399 ) Study 9 ( n = 823 ) R - CHOP CHOP R - CHOP CHOP R - Chemo Chemo Main outcome Progression - free survival ( years ) Event - free survival ( years ) Time to treatment failure ( years ) Median of main outcome measure 3 . 1 1 . 6 2 . 9 1 . 1 NE [ 1 ] NE null Hazard ratio [ 2 ] 0 . 69 [ 3 ] 0 . 60 null 0 . 45 null Overall survival at 2 years [ 4 ] 74 % 63 % 69 % 58 % 95 % 86 % Hazard ratio null 0 . 72 null 0 . 68 null 0 . 40 null [ 1 ] NE = Not reliably estimable .
[ 2 ] R - CHOP vs . CHOP .
[ 3 ] Significant at p < 0 . 05 , 2 - sided .
[ 4 ] Kaplan - Meier estimates .
In NHL Study 8 , overall survival estimates at 5 years were 58 % vs . 46 % for R - CHOP and CHOP , respectively .
14 . 4 Ninety - Minute Infusions in Previously Untreated Follicular NHL and DLBCL In NHL Study 10 , a total of 363 patients with previously untreated follicular NHL ( n = 113 ) or DLBCL ( n = 250 ) were evaluated in a prospective , open - label , multi - center , single - arm trial for the safety of 90 - minute rituximab infusions .
Patients with follicular NHL received rituximab 375 mg / m2 plus CVP chemotherapy .
Patients with DLBCL received rituximab 375 mg / m2 plus CHOP chemotherapy .
Patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease were excluded from the study .
Patients were eligible for a 90 - minute infusion at Cycle 2 if they did not experience a Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related adverse event with Cycle 1 and had a circulating lymphocyte count less than or equal to 5 , 000 / mm3 before Cycle 2 .
All patients were pre - medicated with acetaminophen and an antihistamine and received the glucocorticoid component of their chemotherapy prior to rituximab infusion .
The main outcome measure was the development of Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related reactions on the day of , or day after , the 90 - minute infusion at Cycle 2 [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Eligible patients received their Cycle 2 rituximab infusion over 90 minutes as follows : 20 % of the total dose given in the first 30 minutes and the remaining 80 % of the total dose given over the next 60 minutes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Patients who tolerated the 90 - minute rituximab infusion at Cycle 2 continued to receive subsequent rituximab infusions at the 90 - minute infusion rate for the remainder of the treatment regimen ( through Cycle 6 or Cycle 8 ) .
The incidence of Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related reactions at Cycle 2 was 1 . 1 % ( 95 % CI [ 0 . 3 % , 2 . 8 % ] ) among all patients , 3 . 5 % ( 95 % CI [ 1 . 0 % , 8 . 8 % ] ) for those patients treated with R - CVP , and 0 . 0 % ( 95 % CI [ 0 . 0 % , 1 . 5 % ] ) for those patients treated with R - CHOP .
For Cycles 2 - 8 , the incidence of Grade 3 - 4 infusion - related reactions was 2 . 8 % ( 95 % CI [ 1 . 3 % , 5 . 0 % ] ) .
No acute fatal infusion - related reactions were observed .
14 . 5 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) The safety and effectiveness of rituximab were evaluated in two randomized ( 1 : 1 ) multicenter open - label studies comparing FC alone or in combination with rituximab for up to 6 cycles in patients with previously untreated CLL [ CLL Study 1 ( n = 817 ) ] or previously treated CLL [ CLL Study 2 ( n = 552 ) ] .
Patients received fludarabine 25 mg / m2 / day and cyclophosphamide 250 mg / m2 / day on days 1 , 2 and 3 of each cycle , with or without rituximab .
In both studies , seventy - one percent of CLL patients received 6 cycles and 90 % received at least 3 cycles of rituximab - based therapy .
In CLL Study 1 , 30 % of patients were 65 years or older , 31 % were Binet stage C , 45 % had B symptoms , more than 99 % had ECOG performance status ( PS ) 0 – 1 , 74 % were male , and 100 % were White .
In CLL Study 2 , 44 % of patients were 65 years or older , 28 % had B symptoms , 82 % received a prior alkylating drug , 18 % received prior fludarabine , 100 % had ECOG PS 0 – 1 , 67 % were male and 98 % were White .
The main outcome measure in both studies was progression - free survival ( PFS ) , defined as the time from randomization to progression , relapse , or death , as determined by investigators ( CLL Study 1 ) or an independent review committee ( CLL Study 2 ) .
The investigator assessed results in CLL Study 2 were supportive of those obtained by the independent review committee .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 9 .
Table 9 .
Efficacy Results in CLL Studies 1 and 2 Study 1 [ 1 ] ( Previously untreated ) Study 2 null ( Previously treated ) R - FC N = 408 FC N = 409 R - FC N = 276 FC N = 276 Median PFS ( months ) 39 . 8 31 . 5 26 . 7 21 . 7 Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 56 ( 0 . 43 , 0 . 71 ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 6 , 0 . 96 ) P value ( Log - Rank test ) less than 0 . 01 0 . 02 Response rate ( 95 % CI ) 86 % ( 82 , 89 ) 73 % ( 68 , 77 ) 54 % ( 48 , 60 ) 45 % ( 37 , 51 ) [ 1 ] As defined in 1996 National Cancer Institute Working Group guidelines .
Across both studies , 243 of 676 rituximab - treated patients ( 36 % ) were 65 years of age or older and 100 rituximab - treated patients ( 15 % ) were 70 years of age or older .
The results of exploratory subset analyses in elderly patients are presented in Table 10 .
Table 10 .
Efficacy Results in CLL Studies 1 and 2 in Subgroups Defined by Age [ 1 ] Study 1 Study 2 Age subgroup Number of Patients Hazard Ratio for PFS ( 95 % CI ) Number of Patients Hazard Ratio for PFS ( 95 % CI ) Age less than 65 yrs 572 0 . 52 ( 0 . 39 , 0 . 70 ) 313 0 . 61 ( 0 . 45 , 0 . 84 ) Age greater than or equal to 65 yrs 245 0 . 62 ( 0 . 39 , 0 . 99 ) 233 0 . 99 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 40 ) Age less than 70 yrs 736 0 . 51 ( 0 . 39 , 0 . 67 ) 438 0 . 67 ( 0 . 51 , 0 . 87 ) Age greater than or equal to 70 yrs 81 1 . 17 ( 0 . 51 , 2 . 66 ) 108 1 . 22 ( 0 . 73 , 2 . 04 ) [ 1 ] From exploratory analyses .
14 . 6 Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) Reducing the Signs and Symptoms : Initial and Re - Treatment Courses The efficacy and safety of rituximab were evaluated in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies of adult patients with moderately to severely active RA who had a prior inadequate response to at least one TNF inhibitor .
Patients were 18 years of age or older , diagnosed with active RA according to American College of Rheumatology ( ACR ) criteria , and had at least 8 swollen and 8 tender joints .
In RA Study 1 ( NCT00468546 ) , patients were randomized to receive either rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX or placebo + MTX for 24 weeks .
Further courses of rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX were administered in an open label extension study at a frequency determined by clinical evaluation , but no sooner than 16 weeks after the preceding course of rituximab .
In addition to the intravenous premedication , glucocorticoids were administered orally on a tapering schedule from baseline through Day 14 .
The proportions of patients achieving ACR 20 , 50 , and 70 responses at Week 24 of the placebo - controlled period are shown in Table 11 .
In RA Study 2 ( NCT00266227 ) , all patients received the first course of rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX .
Patients who experienced ongoing disease activity were randomized to receive a second course of either rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX or placebo + MTX , the majority between Weeks 24 – 28 .
The proportions of patients achieving ACR 20 , 50 , and 70 responses at Week 24 , before the re - treatment course , and at Week 48 , after retreatment , are shown in Table 11 .
Table 11 .
ACR Responses in RA Study 1 and RA Study 2 ( Percent of Patients ) ( Modified Intent - to - Treat Population ) Inadequate Response to TNF Antagonists Study 1 24 Week Placebo - Controlled ( Week 24 ) Study 2 Placebo - Controlled Retreatment ( Week 24 and Week 48 ) Response Placebo + MTX n = 201 Rituximab + MTX n = 298 Treatment Difference ( Rituximab – Placebo ) [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) Response Placebo + MTX Retreatment n = 157 Rituximab + MTX Retreatment n = 318 Treatment Difference ( Rituximab – Placebo ) [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , null ( 95 % CI ) ACR20 ACR20 Week 24 18 % 51 % 33 % ( 26 % , 41 % ) Week 24 48 % 45 % NA Week 48 45 % 54 % 11 % ( 2 % , 20 % ) ACR50 ACR50 Week 24 5 % 27 % 21 % ( 15 % , 27 % ) Week 24 27 % 21 % NA Week 48 26 % 29 % 4 % ( - 4 % , 13 % ) ACR70 ACR70 Week 24 1 % 12 % 11 % ( 7 % , 15 % ) Week 24 11 % 8 % NA Week 48 13 % 14 % 1 % ( - 5 % , 8 % ) [ 1 ] For RA Study 1 , weighted difference stratified by region ( US , rest of the world ) and Rheumatoid Factor ( RF ) status ( positive greater than 20 IU / mL , negative < 20 IU / mL ) at baseline ; For RA Study 2 , weighted difference stratified by RF status at baseline and greater than or equal to 20 % improvement from baseline in both SJC and TJC at Week 24 ( Yes / No ) .
[ 2 ] In RA Study 2 , all patients received a first course of rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg .
Patients who experienced ongoing disease activity were randomized to receive a second course of either rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX or placebo + MTX at or after Week 24 .
[ 3 ] Since all patients received a first course of rituximab , no comparison between placebo + MTX and rituximab + MTX is made at Week 24 .
Improvement was also noted for all components of ACR response following treatment with rituximab , as shown in Table 12 .
Table 12 .
Components of ACR Response at Week 24 in RA Study 1 ( Modified Intent - to - Treat Population ) Inadequate Response to TNF Antagonists Parameter ( median ) Placebo + MTX ( n = 201 ) Rituximab + MTX ( n = 298 ) Baseline Wk 24 Baseline Wk 24 Tender Joint Count 31 . 0 27 . 0 33 . 0 13 . 0 Swollen Joint Count 20 . 0 19 . 0 21 . 0 9 . 5 Physician Global Assessment [ 1 ] 71 . 0 69 . 0 71 . 0 36 . 0 Patient Global Assessment null 73 . 0 68 . 0 71 . 0 41 . 0 Pain null 68 . 0 68 . 0 67 . 0 38 . 5 Disability Index ( HAQ ) [ 2 ] 2 . 0 1 . 9 1 . 9 1 . 5 CRP ( mg / dL ) 2 . 4 2 . 5 2 . 6 0 . 9 [ 1 ] Visual Analogue Scale : 0 = best , 100 = worst .
[ 2 ] Disability Index of the Health Assessment Questionnaire : 0 = best , 3 = worst .
The time course of ACR 20 response for RA Study 1 is shown in Figure 2 .
Although both treatment groups received a brief course of intravenous and oral glucocorticoids , resulting in similar benefits at Week 4 , higher ACR 20 responses were observed for the rituximab group by Week 8 .
A similar proportion of patients achieved these responses through Week 24 after a single course of treatment ( 2 infusions ) with rituximab .
Similar patterns were demonstrated for ACR 50 and 70 responses .
Figure 2 .
Percent of Patients Achieving ACR 20 Response by Visit [ 1 ] RA Study 1 ( Inadequate Response to TNF Antagonists ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] The same patients may not have responded at each time point .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Radiographic Response In RA Study 1 , structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as changes in Genant - modified Total Sharp Score ( TSS ) and its components , the erosion score ( ES ) and the joint space narrowing ( JSN ) score .
Rituximab + MTX slowed the progression of structural damage compared to placebo + MTX after 1 year as shown in Table 13 .
Table 13 .
Mean Radiographic Change from Baseline to 104 Weeks in RA Study 1 Inadequate Response to TNF Antagonists Parameter Rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX [ 1 ] Placebo + MTX [ 2 ] Treatment Difference ( Placebo – Rituximab ) 95 % CI Change during First Year TSS 0 . 66 1 . 77 1 . 11 ( 0 . 47 , 1 . 75 ) ES 0 . 44 1 . 19 0 . 75 ( 0 . 32 , 1 . 19 ) JSN Score 0 . 22 0 . 58 0 . 36 ( 0 . 10 , 0 . 62 ) Change during Second Year [ 3 ] TSS 0 . 48 1 . 04 — — ES 0 . 28 0 . 62 — — JSN Score 0 . 20 0 . 42 — — [ 1 ] Patients received up to 2 years of treatment with rituximab + MTX .
[ 2 ] Patients receiving placebo + MTX .
Patients receiving placebo + MTX could have received retreatment with rituximab + MTX from Week 16 onward .
[ 3 ] Based on radiographic scoring following 104 weeks of observation .
In RA Study 1 and its open - label extension , 70 % of patients initially randomized to rituximab + MTX and 72 % of patients initially randomized to placebo + MTX were evaluated radiographically at Year 2 .
As shown in Table 13 , progression of structural damage in rituximab + MTX patients was further reduced in the second year of treatment .
Following 2 years of treatment with rituximab + MTX , 57 % of patients had no progression of structural damage .
During the first year , 60 % of rituximab + MTX treated patients had no progression , defined as a change in TSS of zero or less compared to baseline , compared to 46 % of placebo + MTX treated patients .
In their second year of treatment with rituximab + MTX , more patients had no progression than in the first year ( 68 % vs . 60 % ) , and 87 % of the rituximab + MTX treated patients who had no progression in the first year also had no progression in the second year .
Lesser Efficacy of 500 Vs . 1 , 000 mg Treatment Courses for Radiographic Outcomes RA Study 3 ( NCT00299104 ) is a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study which evaluated the effect of placebo + MTX compared to rituximab 2 × 500 mg + MTX and rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX treatment courses in MTX - naïve RA patients with moderately to severely active disease .
Patients received a first course of two infusions of rituximab or placebo on Days 1 and 15 .
MTX was initiated at 7 . 5 mg / week and escalated up to 20 mg / week by Week 8 in all three treatment arms .
After a minimum of 24 weeks , patients with ongoing disease activity were eligible to receive re - treatment with additional courses of their assigned treatment .
After one year of treatment , the proportion of patients achieving ACR 20 / 50 / 70 responses were similar in both rituximab dose groups and were higher than in the placebo group .
However , with respect to radiographic scores , only the rituximab 1 , 000 mg treatment group demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in TSS : a change of 0 . 36 units compared to 1 . 08 units for the placebo group , a 67 % reduction .
Physical Function Response RA Study 4 ( NCT00299130 ) is a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in adult RA patients with moderately to severely active disease with inadequate response to MTX .
Patients were randomized to receive an initial course of rituximab 500 mg , rituximab 1 , 000 mg , or placebo in addition to background MTX .
Physical function was assessed at Weeks 24 and 48 using the Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index ( HAQ - DI ) .
From baseline to Week 24 , a greater proportion of rituximab - treated patients had an improvement in HAQ - DI of at least 0 . 22 ( a minimal clinically important difference ) and a greater mean HAQ - DI improvement compared to placebo , as shown in Table 14 .
HAQ - DI results for the rituximab 500 mg treatment group were similar to the rituximab 1 , 000 mg treatment group ; however radiographic responses were not assessed Dosing Precaution in the Radiographic Responses section above ) .
These improvements were maintained at 48 weeks .
Table 14 .
Improvement from Baseline in Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index ( HAQ - DI ) at Week 24 in RA Study 4 Placebo + MTX n = 172 Rituximab 2 × 1 , 000 mg + MTX n = 170 Treatment Difference ( Rituximab – Placebo ) [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) Mean Improvement from Baseline 0 . 19 0 . 42 0 . 23 ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 34 ) Percent of patients with " Improved " score ( Change from Baseline greater than or equal to MCID ) [ 2 ] 48 % 58 % 11 % ( 0 % , 21 % ) [ 1 ] Adjusted difference stratified by region ( US , rest of the world ) and rheumatoid factor ( RF ) status ( positive greater than or equal to 20 IU / mL , negative less than 20 IU / mL ) at baseline .
[ 2 ] Minimal Clinically Important Difference : MCID for HAQ = 0 . 22 .
14 . 7 Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) Induction Treatment of Adult Patients with Active Disease ( GPA / MPA Study 1 ) A total of 197 patients with active , severe GPA and MPA ( two forms of ANCA Associated Vasculitides ) were treated in a randomized , double - blind , active - controlled multicenter , non - inferiority study , conducted in two phases – a 6 month remission induction phase and a 12 month remission maintenance phase .
Patients were 15 years of age or older , diagnosed with GPA ( 75 % of patients ) or MPA ( 24 % of patients ) according to the Chapel Hill Consensus conference criteria ( 1 % of the patients had unknown vasculitis type ) .
All patients had active disease , with a Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score for Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( BVAS / GPA ) greater than or equal to 3 , and their disease was severe , with at least one major item on the BVAS / GPA .
Ninety - six ( 49 % ) of patients had new disease and 101 ( 51 % ) of patients had relapsing disease .
Patients in both arms received 1 , 000 mg of pulse intravenous methylprednisolone per day for 1 to 3 days within 14 days prior to initial infusion .
Patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive either rituximab 375 mg / m2 once weekly for 4 weeks or oral cyclophosphamide 2 mg / kg daily for 3 to 6 months in the remission induction phase .
Patients were pre - medicated with antihistamine and acetaminophen prior to rituximab infusion .
Following intravenous corticosteroid administration , all patients received oral prednisone ( 1 mg / kg / day , not exceeding 80 mg / day ) with pre - specified tapering .
Once remission was achieved or at the end of the 6 month remission induction period , the cyclophosphamide group received azathioprine to maintain remission .
The rituximab group did not receive additional therapy to maintain remission .
The main outcome measure for both GPA and MPA patients was achievement of complete remission at 6 months defined as a BVAS / GPA of 0 , and off glucocorticoid therapy .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin was a treatment difference of 20 % .
As shown in Table 15 , the study demonstrated non - inferiority of rituximab to cyclophosphamide for complete remission at 6 months .
Table 15 .
Percentage of Patients with GPA / MPA Who Achieved Complete Remission at 6 Months ( Intent - to - Treat Population ) Rituximab ( n = 99 ) Cyclophosphamide ( n = 98 ) Treatment Difference ( Rituximab – Cyclophosphamide ) Rate 95 . 1 % CI [ 1 ] 64 % ( 54 % , 73 % ) 53 % ( 43 % , 63 % ) 11 % ( - 3 % , 24 % ) [ 2 ] [ 1 ] The 95 . 1 % confidence level reflects an additional 0 . 001 alpha to account for an interim efficacy analysis .
[ 2 ] Non - inferiority was demonstrated because the lower bound was higher than the prespecified non - inferiority margin ( - 3 % greater than - 20 % ) .
Complete Remission ( CR ) at 12 and 18 months In the rituximab group , 44 % of patients achieved CR at 6 and 12 months , and 38 % of patients achieved CR at 6 , 12 , and 18 months .
In patients treated with cyclophosphamide ( followed by azathioprine for maintenance of CR ) , 38 % of patients achieved CR at 6 and 12 months , and 31 % of patients achieved CR at 6 , 12 , and 18 months .
Retreatment of Flares with Rituximab Based upon investigator judgment , 15 patients received a second course of rituximab therapy for treatment of relapse of disease activity which occurred between 8 and 17 months after the induction treatment course of rituximab .
Follow up Treatment of Adult Patients with GPA / MPA who have achieved disease control with other Immunosuppressant ( GPA / MPA Study 2 ) A total of 115 patients ( 86 with GPA , 24 with MPA , and 5 with renal - limited ANCA - associated vasculitis ) in disease remission were randomized to receive azathioprine ( 58 patients ) or non - U . S . - licensed rituximab ( 57 patients ) in this open - label , prospective , multi - center , randomized , active - controlled study .
Eligible patients were 21 years and older and had either newly diagnosed ( 80 % ) or relapsing disease ( 20 % ) .
A majority of the patients were ANCA - positive .
Remission of active disease was achieved using a combination of glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide .
Within a maximum of 1 month after the last cyclophosphamide dose , eligible patients ( based on BVAS of 0 ) , were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive either non - U . S . - licensed rituximab or azathioprine .
The non - U . S . - licensed rituximab was administered as two 500 mg intravenous infusions separated by two weeks ( on Day 1 and Day 15 ) followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months for 18 months .
Azathioprine was administered orally at a dose of 2 mg / kg / day for 12 months , then 1 . 5 mg / kg / day for 6 months , and finally 1 mg / kg / day for 4 months ; treatment was discontinued after 22 months .
Prednisone treatment was tapered and then kept at a low dose ( approximately 5 mg per day ) for at least 18 months after randomization .
Prednisone dose tapering and the decision to stop prednisone treatment after month 18 were left at the investigator ' s discretion .
Planned follow - up was until month 28 ( 10 or 6 months , respectively , after the last non - U . S . - licensed rituximab infusion or azathioprine dose ) .
The primary endpoint was the occurrence of major relapse ( defined by the reappearance of clinical and / or laboratory signs of vasculitis activity that could lead to organ failure or damage , or could be life threatening ) through month 28 .
By month 28 , major relapse occurred in 3 patients ( 5 % ) in the non - U . S . - licensed rituximab group and 17 patients ( 29 % ) in the azathioprine group .
The observed cumulative incidence rate of first major relapse during the 28 months was lower in patients on non - U . S . - licensed rituximab relative to azathioprine ( Figure 3 ) .
Figure 3 .
Cumulative Incidence Over Time of First Major Relapse in Patients with GPA / MPAPatients were censored at the last follow - up dates if they had no event .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RIABNI ( rituximab - arrx ) injection is a sterile , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow preservative free solution for intravenous use supplied as a carton containing one 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) single dose vial ( NDC 55513 - 224 - 01 ) and a carton containing one 500 mg / 50 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) single dose vial ( NDC 55513 - 326 - 01 ) .
Store RIABNI vials refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Protect RIABNI vials from direct sunlight .
Do not freeze or shake .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Infusion - Related Reactions Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of infusion - related reactions .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately to report symptoms of infusion - related reactions including urticaria , hypotension , angioedema , sudden cough , breathing problems , weakness , dizziness , palpitations , or chest pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for symptoms of severe mucocutaneous reactions , including painful sores or ulcers on the mouth , blisters , peeling skin , rash , and pustules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for symptoms of hepatitis including worsening fatigue or yellow discoloration of skin or eyes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of PML , including new or changes in neurological symptoms such as confusion , dizziness or loss of balance , difficulty talking or walking , decreased strength or weakness on one side of the body , or vision problems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Tumor Lysis Syndrome ( TLS ) Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of tumor lysis syndrome such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and lethargy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Infections Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of infections including fever , cold symptoms ( e . g . , rhinorrhea or laryngitis ) , flu symptoms ( e . g . , cough , fatigue , body aches ) , earache or headache , dysuria , oral herpes simplex infection , and painful wounds with erythema and advise patients of the increased risk of infections during and after treatment with RIABNI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions Advise patients of the risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions , including ventricular fibrillation , myocardial infarction , and cardiogenic shock .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately to report chest pain and irregular heartbeats [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Renal Toxicity Advise patients of the risk of renal toxicity .
Inform patients of the need for healthcare providers to monitor kidney function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Bowel Obstruction and Perforation Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of bowel obstruction and perforation , including severe abdominal pain or repeated vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with RIABNI and for 12 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with RIABNI and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
RIABNI ™ [ rituximab - arrx ] Manufactured by : Amgen , Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 U . S . License Number 1080 AMGEN ® and RIABNI ™ are trademarks or licensed by Amgen , Inc . , its subsidiaries or affiliates .
© 2020 , 2022 Amgen , Inc .
All rights reserved .
1 XXXXXX – V2 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 6 / 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE RIABNI ™ ( re AB nee ) ( rituximab - arrx ) injection What is the most important information I should know about RIABNI ?
RIABNI can cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • Infusion - related reactions .
Infusion - related reactions are very common side effects of RIABNI treatment .
Serious infusion - related reactions can happen during your infusion or within 24 hours after your infusion of RIABNI .
Your healthcare provider should give you medicines before your infusion of RIABNI to decrease your chance of having a severe infusion - related reaction .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you get any of these symptoms during or after an infusion of RIABNI : • hives ( red itchy welts ) or rash • itching • swelling of your lips , tongue , throat or face • sudden cough • shortness of breath , difficulty breathing , or wheezing • weakness • dizziness or feel faint • palpitations ( feel like your heart is racing or fluttering ) • chest pain • Severe skin and mouth reactions .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you get any of these symptoms at any time during your treatment with RIABNI : • painful sores or ulcers on your skin , lips or in your mouth • blisters • peeling skin • rash • pustules • Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation .
Before you receive your RIABNI treatment , your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check for HBV infection .
If you have had hepatitis B or are a carrier of hepatitis B virus , receiving RIABNI could cause the virus to become an active infection again .
Hepatitis B reactivation may cause serious liver problems including liver failure , and death .
You should not receive RIABNI if you have active hepatitis B liver disease .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for hepatitis B infection during and for several months after you stop receiving RIABNI .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get worsening tiredness , or yellowing of your skin or white part of your eyes , during treatment with RIABNI .
• Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) .
PML is a rare , serious brain infection caused by a virus that can happen in people who receive RIABNI .
People with weakened immune systems can get PML .
PML can result in death or severe disability .
There is no known treatment , prevention , or cure for PML .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any new or worsening symptoms or if anyone close to you notices these symptoms : • confusion • dizziness or loss of balance • difficulty walking or talking • decreased strength or weakness on one side of your body • vision problems See " What are the possible side effects of RIABNI ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is RIABNI ?
RIABNI is a prescription medicine used to treat : • Adults with Non - Hodgkin ' s Lymphoma ( NHL ) : alone or with other chemotherapy medicines .
• Adults with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) : with the chemotherapy medicines fludarabine and cyclophosphamide .
• Adults with Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) : with another prescription medicine called methotrexate , to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe active RA in adults , after treatment with at least one other medicine called a Tumor Necrosis Factor ( TNF ) antagonist has been used and did not work well .
• Adults with Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ( GPA ) ( Wegener ' s Granulomatosis ) and Microscopic Polyangiitis ( MPA ) : with glucocorticoids , to treat GPA and MPA .
RIABNI is not indicated for treatment of children .
Before you receive RIABNI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had a severe reaction to RIABNI or another rituximab product .
• have a history of heart problems , irregular heart beat or chest pain .
• have lung or kidney problems .
• have an infection or weakened immune system .
• have or have had any severe infections including : • Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) • Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) • Cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) • Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) • Parvovirus B19 • Varicella zoster virus ( chickenpox or shingles ) • West Nile Virus • have had a recent vaccination or are scheduled to receive vaccinations .
You should not receive certain vaccines before or during treatment with RIABNI .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the risks to your unborn baby if you receive RIABNI during pregnancy .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test to see if you are pregnant before starting RIABNI .
• You should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with RIABNI and for 12 months after your last dose of RIABNI .
Talk to your healthcare provider about effective birth control .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think that you are pregnant during treatment with RIABNI .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
RIABNI may pass into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 6 months after your last dose of RIABNI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take or have taken : • a Tumor Necrosis Factor ( TNF ) inhibitor medicine .
• a Disease Modifying Anti - Rheumatic Drug ( DMARD ) .
If you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above , ask your healthcare provider .
How will I receive RIABNI ?
• RIABNI is given by infusion through your central catheter or through a needle placed in a vein ( intravenous infusion ) , in your arm .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how you will receive RIABNI .
• Your healthcare provider may prescribe medicines before each infusion of RIABNI to reduce infusion side effects such as fever and chills .
• Your healthcare provider should do blood test regularly to check for side effects to RIABNI .
• Before each RIABNI treatment , your healthcare provider or nurse will ask you questions about your general health .
Tell your healthcare provider or nurse about any new symptoms .
What are the possible side effects of RIABNI ?
RIABNI can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about RIABNI ? "
• Tumor Lysis Syndrome ( TLS ) .
TLS is caused by the fast breakdown of cancer cells .
TLS can cause you to have : • kidney failure and the need for dialysis treatment • abnormal heart rhythm TLS can happen within 12 to 24 hours after an infusion of RIABNI .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check you for TLS .
Your healthcare provider may give you medicine to help prevent TLS .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms or TLS : • nausea • vomiting • diarrhea • lack of energy • Serious infections .
Serious infections can happen during and after treatment with RIABNI , and can lead to death .
RIABNI can increase your risk of getting infections and can lower the ability of your immune system to fight infections .
Types of serious infections that can happen with RIABNI include bacterial , fungal , and viral infections .
After receiving RIABNI , some people have developed low levels of certain antibodies in their blood for a long period of time ( longer than 11 months ) .
Some of these people with low antibody levels developed infections .
People with serious infections should not receive RIABNI .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any symptoms of infection : • fever • cold symptoms , such as runny nose or sore throat that do not go away • flu symptoms , such as cough , tiredness , and body aches • earache or headache • pain during urination • cold sores in the mouth or throat • cuts , scrapes or incisions that are red , warm , swollen or painful • Heart problems .
RIABNI may cause chest pain , irregular heartbeats , and heart attack .
Your healthcare provider may monitor your heart during and after treatment with RIABNI if you have symptoms of heart problems or have a history of heart problems .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have chest pain or irregular heartbeats during treatment with RIABNI .
• Kidney problems , especially if you are receiving RIABNI for NHL .
RIABNI can cause severe kidney problems that lead to death .
Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working .
• Stomach and serious bowel problems that can sometimes lead to death .
Bowel problems , including blockage or tears in the bowel can happen if you receive RIABNI with chemotherapy medicines .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain or repeated vomiting during treatment with RIABNI .
Your healthcare provider will stop treatment with RIABNI if you have severe , serious or life - threatening side effects .
The most common side effects of RIABNI include : • infusion - related reactions ( see " What is the most important information I should know about RIABNI ? " )
• infections ( may include fever , chills ) • body aches • tiredness • nausea In adults with GPA or MPA the most common side effects of RIABNI also include : • low white and red blood cells • swelling • diarrhea • muscle spasms Other side effects with RIABNI include : • aching joints during or within hours of receiving an infusion • more frequent upper respiratory tract infection These are not all of the possible side effects with RIABNI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of RIABNI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about RIABNI that is written for healthcare providers .
What are the ingredients in RIABNI ?
Active ingredient : rituximab - arrx Inactive ingredients : polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , sodium citrate dihydrate , and Water for Injection , USP .
Hydrochloric acid is used to adjust the buffer solution pH . Manufactured by : Amgen , Inc . , One Amgen Center Drive , Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 U . S . License Number 1080 RIABNI ™ is a registered trademark of Amgen , Inc . © 2020 , 2022 Amgen , Inc .
For more information , go to www . RIABNI . com or call 1 - 805 - 447 - 1000 .
1 XXXXXX – V2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg / 10 mL Vial Label 100 mg / 10 mL AMGEN ® RIABNI ™ ( rituximab - arrx ) Injection NDC 55513 - 224 - 01 Single - dose Vial Discard unused portion .
100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from direct sunlight .
Do not freeze or shake .
Sterile Solution - No Preservative ATTENTION : Enclosed Medication Guide is required for each patient .
Contains 1 Single - dose Vial .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg / 50 mL Vial Label 500 mg / 50 mL AMGEN ® RIABNI ™ ( rituximab - arrx ) Injection NDC 55513 - 326 - 01 Single - dose Vial Discard unused portion .
500 mg / 50 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from direct sunlight .
Do not freeze or shake .
Sterile Solution - No Preservative ATTENTION : Enclosed Medication Guide is required for each patient .
Contains 1 Single - dose Vial .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
