1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE QWO is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women .
QWO is a combination of bacterial collagenases indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • A treatment area is defined as a single buttock receiving up to 12 injections , 0 . 3 mL each ( up to a total of 3 . 6 mL ) , of QWO .
( 2 . 1 ) • A treatment visit may consist of up to 2 treatment areas .
Treatment visits should be repeated every 21 days for 3 treatment visits .
( 2 . 1 ) • Reconstitute QWO lyophilized powder with the supplied diluent prior to use .
( 2 . 2 ) • Inject 0 . 84 mg of QWO per treatment area as 12 subcutaneous injections ( 0 . 3 - mL injection administered as three 0 . 1 - mL aliquots per injection ) .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosage QWO is injected subcutaneously at a dose of 0 . 84 mg per treatment area .
• A treatment area is defined as a single buttock receiving up to 12 injections , 0 . 3 mL each ( up to a total of 3 . 6 mL ) , of QWO .
• A treatment visit may consist of up to 2 treatment areas .
Treatment should be repeated every 21 days for 3 treatment visits .
2 . 2 Reconstitution of Lyophilized Powder Before reconstitution , remove the vials from the refrigerator and let stand at room temperature for at least 15 minutes .
Inspect the vials containing QWO .
The cake of lyophilized powder should be white in color and intact , showing no signs of erosion .
The diluent should be a colorless solution , free of particulate matter .
After removal of the flip - off cap from the vial ( s ) , using aseptic technique swab the rubber stopper and surrounding surface of the vial ( s ) containing QWO and diluent with sterile alcohol ( no other antiseptics should be used ) .
Use only the supplied diluent for the reconstitution of QWO .
Using an appropriate sized syringe and needle ( not supplied ) , withdraw the amount of supplied diluent based on the number of injection sites ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Reconstitution Instructions for QWO Single Treatment Area Two Treatment Areas Collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes ( mg ) 0 . 92 1 . 84 Volume of diluent ( mL ) 4 8 Concentration after reconstitution ( mg / mL ) 0 . 23 0 . 23 Number of treatment areas 1 2 Inject the diluent slowly into the sides of the vial containing the lyophilized powder of QWO .
Do not invert the vial or shake the solution .
Slowly swirl the solution to ensure that all of the lyophilized powder has gone into solution .
The reconstituted QWO solution in the vial can be kept at room temperature ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C / 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 8 hours or refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 72 hours prior to administration .
If the reconstituted QWO solution in the vial is refrigerated , allow this solution to return to room temperature for approximately 15 minutes before use .
The reconstituted QWO solution should be clear , colorless and free of particulate matter .
Inspect the solution visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration .
If the reconstituted QWO is not a clear , colorless solution essentially free of particulate matter , do not inject it .
Discard the syringe ( s ) and needle ( s ) used for reconstitution and the diluent vial ( s ) .
After reconstitution , QWO solution in the vial should be used for only one injection session and for only one patient .
2 . 3 Administration Preparation of Syringes for Injection Using 1 - mL syringes with removable needles ( not supplied ) , draw up 0 . 9 mL of the reconstituted solution into each syringe .
See Table 2 for the appropriate number of syringes needed based on the number of injection sites .
After the syringes are prepared , pull the solution remaining in the needles into the barrels of the syringe and then replace the needle with a 30 - gauge 1 / 2 - inch needle .
Administer reconstituted solution prepared in 1 - mL syringes immediately .
Do not store reconstituted solution in the 1 - mL syringes .
Table 2 : Preparation Instructions for QWO Single Treatment Visit Two Treatment Visit Number of 1 - mL syringes 4 8 Volume per syringe ( mL ) 0 . 9 0 . 9 Amount of collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes per syringe ( mg ) 0 . 21 0 . 21 Total injection volume ( mL ) in prepared syringes 3 . 6 7 . 2 Total injection amount of collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes ( mg ) in prepared syringes 0 . 84 1 . 68 Injection Technique Mark the injection sites while the patient is standing .
Inject QWO subcutaneously while the patient is in a prone position .
Each injection of QWO should be administered as three 0 . 1 - mL aliquots to positions A , B , and C ( for a total injection volume of 0 . 3 mL ) as shown in the following figure .
The depth of the injection should be 0 . 5 inches ( corresponding to the length of the needle ) without downward pressure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Needle Tip Position A : Position the needle at 90 ° angle perpendicular to the skin surface at the injection site and inject one 0 . 1 - mL aliquot by gently pushing on the syringe plunger .
Needle Tip Position B : Withdraw the needle slightly ( but not so much as to remove from the injection site ) and reposition approximately 45 ° ( but not more than 45 ° ) and inject one 0 . 1 - mL aliquot ( towards head ) .
Needle Tip Position C : Withdraw the needle slightly ( but not so much as to remove from the injection site ) and reposition approximately 45 ° ( but not more than 45 ° ) and inject one 0 . 1 - mL aliquot , ( towards foot ) .
Withdraw needle from the skin completely and move to the next identified injection site .
Each treatment area may receive up 12 injections .
After treatment the patient should remain prone for at least 5 minutes .
Do not store , pool , or use any vials or syringes containing unused reconstituted solution after administration .
Discard any unused portions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 0 . 92 mg or 1 . 84 mg of collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes as a lyophilized powder ( appearing as a white cake ) in single - dose vials .
For injection : 0 . 92 mg or 1 . 84 mg as a lyophilized powder in single - dose vials .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS QWO is contraindicated in : • patients with a history of hypersensitivity to collagenase or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• the presence of infection at the injection sites .
• History of hypersensitivity to any collagenase or to any of the components in the formulation .
( 4 ) • Infection at the injection site .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis may occur with collagenase clostridium histolyticum .
If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs , initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Injection Site Bruising : Bruising occurs frequently after QWO administration .
Use with caution in patients with bleeding abnormalities or who are currently being treated with antiplatelet ( except those taking ≤ 150 mg aspirin daily ) or anticoagulant therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Substitution : QWO must not be substituted for other injectable collagenase products .
QWO is not indicated for the treatment of Peyronie ’ s disease or Dupuytren ’ s contracture .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported with the use of collagenase clostridium histolyticum .
If such a reaction occurs , further injection of QWO should be discontinued and appropriate medical therapy immediately instituted .
5 . 2 Injection Site Bruising In clinical trials , 84 % of subjects treated with QWO experienced injection site bruising [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Subjects with coagulation disorders or using anticoagulant or antiplatelet medications ( except those taking ≤ 150 mg aspirin daily ) were excluded from participating in Trials 1 and 2 .
QWO should be used with caution in patients with bleeding abnormalities or who are currently being treated with antiplatelet ( except those taking ≤ 150 mg aspirin daily ) or anticoagulant therapy .
5 . 3 Substitution of Collagenase Products QWO must not be substituted with other injectable collagenase products .
QWO is not intended for the treatment of Peyronie ’ s Disease or Dupuytren ’ s Contracture 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions to QWO for injection are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Injection Site Bruising [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) were related to the injection site ( bruising , pain , nodule , pruritus , erythema , discoloration , swelling , and warmth ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 800 - 462 - 3636 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In two double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trials ( Trials 1 and 2 ) of identical design , 424 female subjects with cellulite in the buttocks received QWO and 419 female subjects with cellulite received placebo .
Enrolled subjects were adults age 18 to 78 years with moderate to severe cellulite ( graded as 3 or 4 on a 0 to 4 scale ) and without excessive skin laxity .
The majority were White ( 78 % ) or African American ( 18 % ) .
Subjects completed up to 3 treatment visits separated by 21 days and were followed for up to 6 months after the last treatment visit in a separate open - label extension trial ( Trial 3 ) .
Table 3 shows the incidence of adverse reactions that were reported in ≥ 1 % of subjects who received QWO - and at a frequency greater than subjects who received placebo in Trials 1 and 2 through Day 71 .
Generally , adverse reactions had a duration of less than 21 days .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects in Trials 1 and 2 Through Day 71 Adverse Reactions at Injection Site QWO N = 424 % Placebo N = 419 % Bruising 84 21 Pain 48 10 Nodule 33 1 Pruritus 15 1 Erythema 9 5 Discoloration 8 1 Swelling Warmth 8 3 1 0 Pooled terms : • Bruising - injection site bruising , injection site hematoma , and injection site hemorrhage ( refers to verbatim term injection site ecchymosis ) • Pain - injection site pain , injection site discomfort , and injection site dysesthesia • Swelling - injection site swelling , injection site edema , injection site induration • Discoloration - injection site discoloration • Nodule - injection site mass and injection site nodule Four hundred seventy - nine ( 479 ) subjects from Trials 1 and 2 completed a 6 - month observation phase in the ongoing open - label safety extension ( Trial 3 ) .
No long - term safety signals have been identified .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handing , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products , including other collagenase clostridium histolyticum products , may be misleading .
By Day 22 , approximately 53 % ( 203 / 383 ) and 26 % ( 101 / 383 ) of subjects who completed the first treatment visit of QWO at the recommended dose in Trials 1 and 2 developed anti - AUX - I and anti - AUX - II antibodies , respectively .
The majority ( > 96 % ) of subjects developed antibodies for AUX - I and AUX - II after second and third treatment visits .
Antibody titers suggested that antibodies were retained for up to 360 days after receiving the first recommended dose .
By Day 71 , approximately 68 % and 83 % of subjects developed antibodies to AUX - I and AUX - II which were classified as neutralizing , respectively .
Antibodies to AUX - I and AUX - II including those classified as neutralizing were not associated with changes in clinical response or adverse reactions at injection site .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reaction was reported during post approval use of a collagenase product : Immune system disorders : serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on collagenase clostridium histolyticum use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Following subcutaneous injection , the systemic concentrations for QWO were below the bioanalytical assay limit of quantification [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of collagenase clostridium histolyticum to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses up to 0 . 13 mg / rat ( 43 × human equivalent dose [ HED ] on a mg / kg basis ) revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of collagenase clostridium histolyticum in human milk , the effects of collagenase clostridium histolyticum on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Following subcutaneous injection , the systemic concentrations for QWO were below the bioanalytical assay limit of quantification [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for collagenase clostridium histolyticum and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from collagenase clostridium histolyticum , or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of QWO have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In two double - blind , placebo - controlled , clinical trials in subjects with cellulite ( Trials 1 and 2 ) , 24 ( 5 . 7 % ) of the 424 subjects who received QWO were 65 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety of QWO were observed between these patients and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes is a combination of bacterial collagenases AUX - I and AUX - II , in an approximate 1 : 1 mass ratio , which are isolated and purified from the fermentation of Clostridium histolyticum bacteria .
Collagenase AUX - I is a single polypeptide chain consisting of approximately 1000 amino acids .
It has an observed molecular weight of 114 kiloDaltons ( kDa ) .
It belongs to the class I Clostridium histolyticum collagenases .
Collagenase AUX - II is a single polypeptide chain consisting of approximately 1000 amino acids .
It has an observed molecular weight of 113 kDa .
It belongs to the class II Clostridium histolyticum collagenases .
QWO ( collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , lyophilized powder ( appearing as a white cake ) in single - dose vials for subcutaneous use after reconstitution with the Diluent for QWO .
Each QWO 0 . 92 - mg single - dose vial contains 0 . 92 mg of collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes and mannitol ( 37 . 7 mg ) , sucrose ( 18 . 9 mg ) , tromethamine ( 1 . 1 mg ) , and hydrochloric acid as needed to adjust pH . Reconstitution with 4 mL of supplied Diluent for QWO yields a solution containing 0 . 23 mg / mL collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes at a pH of approximately 8 . 0 .
Each QWO 1 . 84 - mg single - dose vial contains 1 . 84 mg of collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes and mannitol ( 75 . 4 mg ) , sucrose ( 37 . 8 mg ) , tromethamine ( 2 . 2 mg ) , and hydrochloric acid as needed to adjust pH . Reconstitution with 8 mL of supplied Diluent for QWO yields a solution containing 0 . 23 mg / mL collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes at a pH of approximately 8 . 0 .
Diluent for QWO is a sterile , preservative - free , colorless solution in a single - dose vial containing either 4 mL or 8 mL of 0 . 03 % calcium chloride dihydrate in 0 . 6 % sodium chloride , and Water for Injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Collagenases are proteinases that hydrolyze collagen in its native triple helical conformation under physiological conditions .
The exact mechanism for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of QWO are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetics of collagenases clostridium histolyticum were evaluated in 140 female subjects with cellulite in four clinical trials .
Plasma concentrations of clostridium type I collagenase ( AUX - I ) and clostridium type II collagenase ( AUX - II ) were below the lower limit of quantitation of 5 ng / mL and 25 ng / mL , respectively , in all subjects that received a single dose of ( QWO ) up to 3 . 36 mg in up to 4 treatment areas ( up to 0 . 84 mg per treatment area ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of collagenase clostridium histolyticum have not been conducted .
Purified collagenase clostridium histolyticum was not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames test ) and was not clastogenic in both an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay and an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes .
Collagenase clostridium histolyticum did not impair fertility and early embryonic development when administered intravenously to rats at doses up to 0 . 13 mg / rat ( 43 × HED on a mg / kg basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two randomized , multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials , Trial 1 and Trial 2 , of identical design were conducted to evaluate safety and efficacy of QWO for the treatment of cellulite in adult women .
Eligible subjects had cellulite severity in both buttocks of moderate ( 3 ) to severe ( 4 ) as evaluated on 5 - level scales ( 0 = none ; 4 = severe ) by both the subject , using the Patient Reported Photonumeric Cellulite Severity Scale ( PR - PCSS ) , and the investigator , using the Clinician Reported Photonumeric Cellulite Severity Scale ( CR - PCSS ) .
A dose of 0 . 84 mg of QWO per buttock was administered as 12 subcutaneous injections ( 0 . 3 - mL injection administered as three 0 . 1 - mL aliquots per injection ) in each of 2 buttocks for a total dose of 1 . 68 mg and a total volume of 7 . 2 mL ( 3 . 6 mL per buttock ) per treatment visit .
There were 3 treatment visits at 21 - day intervals .
In Trials 1 and 2 , the primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of 2 - level multi - component responders at Day 71 post randomization .
A 2 - level multi - component responder was defined as having an improvement of at least 2 levels of cellulite severity from baseline on both the CR - PCSS and the PR - PCSS in the target buttock .
Patient satisfaction with the appearance of their cellulite was assessed using a patient reported outcome scale ranging from 0 ( extremely dissatisfied ) to 6 ( extremely satisfied ) .
The mean age was 47 years with a mean BMI of 31 kg / m2 .
All of the subjects were female , and most were White ( 78 % ) .
At baseline , 61 % subjects had investigator reported cellulite severity ( CR - PCSS ) scores of moderate and 39 % subjects had cellulite severity scores of severe .
Reductions in cellulite severity were observed more frequently in the QWO group compared to the placebo group as measured by the investigator ( CR - PCSS ) and patient ( PR - PCSS ) scales at Day 71 ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Subject / Investigator 2 - Level Responder Analysis at Day 71 Trial 1 Trial 2 QWO N = 210 Placebo N = 213 Adj Trt Diff ( 95 % CI ) QWO N = 214 Placebo N = 206 Adj Trt Diff ( 95 % CI ) 2 - level multi - component responder 16 ( 8 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 6 % ( 2 % , 10 % ) 12 ( 6 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 5 % ( 2 % , 8 % ) 2 - level PR ‑ PCSS responder 51 ( 24 % ) 26 ( 12 % ) 12 % ( 5 % , 19 % ) 45 ( 21 % ) 12 ( 6 % ) 15 % ( 9 % , 22 % ) 2 - level CR ‑ PCSS responder 35 ( 17 % ) 12 ( 6 % ) 11 % ( 5 % , 17 % ) 32 ( 15 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 13 % ( 8 % , 19 % ) Adj Trt Diff = Adjusted treatment difference ; CI = Confidence interval Non - responder imputation used to handle missing data .
Adjusted treatment difference is the weighted average of the treatment differences in response percentages across the analysis centers using Cochran - Mantel - Haenszel ( CMH ) weights along with the associated CI .
In Trials 1 and 2 , the measure of patient - reported satisfaction with cellulite appearance showed a greater improvement in the QWO group over the placebo group .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied QWO ( collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , lyophilized powder ( appearing as a white cake ) in single - dose vials for subcutaneous use .
NDC Number Package Size 73611 - 300 - 05 Single treatment area : Carton containing one QWO 0 . 92 - mg single - dose vial and one Diluent for QWO 4 - mL single - dose vial [ see Description ( 11 ) ] 73611 - 300 - 10 Two treatment areas : Carton containing one QWO 1 . 84 - mg single - dose vial and one Diluent for QWO 8 - mL single - dose vial [ see Description ( 11 ) ] Storage and Handling Store QWO and Diluent for QWO vials at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Injection Site Bruising Advise patients that injection site bruising may occur with administration of QWO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Endo Global Aesthetics Limited Dublin , Ireland US License No . 2136 Distributed by : Endo Aesthetics LLC Malvern , PA 19355 Patient Information QWO ( kwoe ) ( collagenase clostridium histolyticum - aaes ) for injection , for subcutaneous use What is QWO ?
QWO is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women .
It is not known if QWO is safe and effective in children .
Do not receive QWO if you : • Are allergic to any collagenase or to any of the ingredients in QWO .
See the end of this Patient Information for a complete list of ingredients in QWO .
• Have an active infection in the treatment area .
Before receiving QWO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had an allergic reaction to a QWO injection in the past • have a bleeding problem • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if QWO will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if QWO passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you receive QWO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take a medicine that prevents the clotting of your blood ( antiplatelet or anticoagulant medicine ) .
How will I receive QWO ?
• QWO is injected into the fat ( subcutaneously ) of each single buttock ( treatment area ) by your healthcare provider .
You may receive up to 12 injections per treatment area .
• Each treatment visit may include up to 2 treatment areas .
• QWO injections will be given 21 days apart for 3 treatment visits .
What are the possible side effects of QWO ?
QWO may cause serious side effects , including : • Allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions , including anaphylaxis .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction after an injection of QWO : • hives • swollen face • trouble breathing • chest pain • low blood pressure • dizziness or fainting • Injection site bruising .
The most common side effects of QWO include bruising , pain , areas of hardness , itching , redness , discoloration , swelling and warmth in the treatment area .
These are not all of the possible side effects of QWO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about QWO Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for more information about QWO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in QWO ?
Active ingredient : collagenase clostridium histolyticum Inactive ingredients : mannitol , sucrose , tromethamine , and hydrochloric acid The diluent contains : calcium chloride dihydrate , sodium chloride , and Water for Injection , USP Manufactured by : Endo Global Aesthetics Limited , Dublin , Ireland US license number 2136 Distributed by : Endo Aesthetics LLC , Malvern , PA 19355 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 07 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
