Rx only DESCRIPTION Each tablet for oral use contains ergoloid mesylates USP ; a mixture of the methanesulfonate salt of the following hydrogenated alkaloids : [ MULTIMEDIA ] R Dihydroergocornine - CH ( CH3 ) 2 Dihydroergocristine - CH2C6H5 Dihydro - α - ergocryptine - CH2CH ( CH3 ) 2 Dihydro - β - ergocryptine - CH ( CH3 ) CH2CH3 C31H41N5O5 • CH4O3S ( dihydroergocornine mesylate ) 659 . 79 C35H41N5O5 • CH4O3S ( dihydroergocristine mesylate ) 707 . 84 C32H43N5O5 • CH4O3S ( dihydro - α - ergocryptine mesylate ) 673 . 82 C32H43N5O5 • CH4O3S ( dihydro - β - ergocryptine mesylate ) 673 . 82 1 mg Dihydroergocristine mesylate 0 . 333 mg Dihydroergocornine mesylate 0 . 333 mg Dihydroergocryptine mesylate [ 1 ] 0 . 333 mg [ 1 ] exists as a mixture of alpha and beta isomers in a ratio of 2 : 1 Inactive ingredients for oral tablets are : butylated hydroxyanisol , corn starch , hydrogenated vegetable oil , lactose , mannitol , polyvinyl pyrrolidone , stearic acid and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY There is no specific evidence which clearly establishes the mechanism by which ergoloid mesylates preparations produce mental effects , nor is there conclusive evidence that the drug particularly affects cerebral arteriosclerosis or cerebrovascular insufficiency .
Pharmacokinetic Properties Pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in normal volunteers with the help of radiolabelled drug as well as employing a specific radioimmunoassay technique .
From the urinary excretion quotient of orally and intravenously administered tritium - labelled ergoloid mesylates the absorption of ergoloid was calculated to be 25 % .
Following oral administration , peak levels of 0 . 5 ngEq / mL / mg were achieved within 1 . 5 – 3 hr .
Bioavailability studies with the specific radioimmunoassay confirm that ergoloid is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , with mean peak levels of 0 . 05 – 0 . 13 ng / mL / mg ( with extremes of 0 . 03 and 0 . 18 ng / mL / mg ) achieved within 0 . 6 – 1 . 3 hr ( with extremes of 0 . 4 and 2 . 8 hr ) .
The finding of lower peak levels of ergoloid compared to the total drug - metabolite composite is consistent with a considerable first pass liver metabolism , with less than 50 % of the therapeutic moiety reaching the systemic circulation .
The elimination of radioactivity , representing ergoloid plus metabolites bearing the radiolabel , was biphasic with half - lives of 4 and 13 hr .
The mean half - life of unchanged ergoloid in plasma is about 2 . 6 – 5 . 1 hr ; after 3 half - lives ergoloid plasma levels are less than 10 % of radioactivity levels , and by 24 hr no ergoloid is detectable .
Bioequivalence studies were performed comparing ergoloid mesylates oral tablets ( administered orally ) with ergoloid mesylates sublingual tablets ( administered sublingually ) .
The oral tablet and sublingual tablet were shown to be bioequivalent .
INDICATIONS A proportion of individuals over sixty who manifest signs and symptoms of an idiopathic decline in mental capacity ( i . e . , cognitive and interpersonal skills , mood , self - care , apparent motivation ) can experience some symptomatic relief upon treatment with ergoloid mesylates preparations .
The identity of the specific trait ( s ) or condition ( s ) , if any , which would usefully predict a response to ergoloid mesylates therapy is not known .
It appears , however , that those individuals who do respond come from groups of patients who would be considered clinically to suffer from some ill - defined process related to aging or to have some underlying dementing condition ( i . e . , primary progressive dementia , Alzheimer ' s dementia , senile onset , multi - infarct dementia ) .
Before prescribing ergoloid mesylates , the physician should exclude the possibility that the patient ' s signs and symptoms arise from a potentially reversible and treatable condition .
Particular care should be taken to exclude delirium and dementiform illness secondary to systemic disease , primary neurological disease , or primary disturbance of mood .
Ergoloid mesylates preparations are not indicated in the treatment of acute or chronic psychosis , regardless of etiology ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
The decision to use ergoloid mesylates in the treatment of an individual with a symptomatic decline in mental capacity of unknown etiology should be continually reviewed since the presenting clinical picture may subsequently evolve sufficiently to allow a specific diagnosis and a specific alternative treatment .
In addition , continued clinical evaluation is required to determine whether any initial benefit conferred by ergoloid mesylates therapy persists with time .
The efficacy of ergoloid mesylates was evaluated using a special rating scale known as the SCAG ( Sandoz Clinical Assessment - Geriatric ) .
The specific items on this scale on which modest but statistically significant changes were observed at the end of twelve weeks include : mental alertness , confusion , recent memory , orientation , emotional lability , self - care , depression , anxiety / fears , cooperation , sociability , appetite , dizziness , fatigue , bothersome ( ness ) , and an overall impression of clinical status .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ergoloid mesylates preparations are contraindicated in individuals who have previously shown hypersensitivity to the drug .
Ergoloid mesylates preparations are also contraindicated in patients who have psychosis , acute or chronic , regardless of etiology .
PRECAUTIONS Practitioners are advised that because the target symptoms are of unknown etiology , careful diagnosis should be attempted before prescribing ergoloid mesylates preparations .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ergoloid mesylates preparations have not been found to produce serious side effects .
Transient nausea and gastric disturbances have been reported .
Ergoloid mesylates preparations do not possess the vasoconstrictor properties of the natural ergot alkaloids .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 mg three times a day .
Alleviation of symptoms is usually gradual and results may not be observed for 3 – 4 weeks .
HOW SUPPLIED Ergoloid mesylates tablets , USP ( oral ) 1 mg are white , round , unscored , debossed MP 20 Bottles of 50 NDC 53489 - 281 - 02 Bottles of 100 NDC 53489 - 281 - 01 Bottles of 250 NDC 53489 - 281 - 03 Bottles of 500 NDC 53489 - 281 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 53489 - 281 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] DISPENSE IN TIGHT , LIGHT - RESISTANT CONTAINER .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Rev 02 , August 2014 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Tablet Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
