( potency expressed as betamethasone ) * Vehicle augments the penetration of the steroid .
For Dermatologic Use Only - Not for Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use in an emollient base .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of corticosteroid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) contains : 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in an emollient cream base of purified water USP ; chlorocresol NF ; propylene glycol USP ; white petrolatum USP ; white wax NF ; cyclomethicone NF ; sorbitol solution USP ; glyceryl oleate / propylene glycol ; ceteareth - 30 ; carbomer homopolymer NF ; and sodium hydroxide NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses , corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees , are metabolized primarily in the liver and excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) was applied once daily at 7 grams per day for 1 week to diseased skin , in adult patients with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , to study its effects on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
The results suggested that the drug caused a slight lowering of adrenal corticosteroid secretion , although in no case did plasma cortisol levels go below the lower limit of the normal range .
Sixty - seven pediatric patients ages 1 to 12 years , with atopic dermatitis , were enrolled in an open - label , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis safety study . Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 58 % ( range 35 % to 95 % ) .
In 19 of 60 ( 32 % ) evaluable patients , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a ≤ 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol ≤ 8 mcg / dL and / or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) indicate that it is in the high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is a high - potency corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
In an open - label pediatric study of 60 evaluable patients , of the 19 who showed evidence of suppression 4 patients were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) and 3 of the 4 ( 75 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use : . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information For Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
• This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) without first talking to your physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in - vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in - vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 5 - and 38 - fold the human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison , respectively .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 0 . 2 - fold the maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids can result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) in pediatric patients 12 years of age and younger is not recommended .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections . )
In an open - label study , 19 of 60 ( 32 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 3 months - 12 years old ) using betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) for treatment of atopic dermatitis demonstrated HPA axis suppression .
The proportion of patients with adrenal suppression in this study was progressively greater , the younger the age group .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : ) Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio . The study described above supports this premise , as adrenal suppression in 9 - 12 year olds , 6 - 8 year olds , 2 - 5 year olds , and 3 months - 1 year old was 17 % , 32 % , 38 % and 50 % respectively .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) included 104 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 8 subjects who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The only local adverse reaction reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) during adult controlled clinical studies was stinging .
It occurred in 1 patient , 0 . 4 % , of the 242 patients or subjects involved in the studies .
Adverse reactions reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) during a pediatric clinical study include signs of skin atrophy ( telangiectasia , bruising , shininess ) .
Skin atrophy occurred in 7 of 67 ( 10 % ) patients , involving all age groups from 3 months - 12 years of age .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when topical corticosteroids are used as recommended .
These reactions dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
Treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) should be limited to 45 g per week .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is not to be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is supplied in 15 g ( NDC 54868 - 6292 - 0 ) and 50 g ( NDC 54868 - 6292 - 1 ) ; boxes of one .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured : Glenmark Generics Ltd .
Village : Kishanpura , Baddi Nalagarh Road District : Solan , Himachal Pradesh - 174101 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com February 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) 15 gram NDC 54868 - 6292 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
