Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Octinoxate 5 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 7 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions for suncreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Caprylyl methicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Nylon 6 / 12 , Mica , Butylene glycol , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , PEG - 9 dimethicone , Bis - isobutyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 7 dimethicone copolymer , disteardimonium hectorite , Cyclohexasiloxane , Magnesium sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Alcohol denat . , Propylene carbonate , Silica , Methylparaben , Propylene glycol , Triethoxycaprylysilane , PEG - PPG dimethylallylether , Tocopheryl acetate , Pentylene glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Hibiscus abelmoschus extract , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Tetrasodium EDTA , Sorbitan laurate , Panax ginseng root extract , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Dimethylmethoxychromanol , Xanthan gum , Polysorbate 20 , Tocopherol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Acetyl dipeptide - 1 cetyl ester , Morus alba leaf extract , BHT , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , ( may contain ) CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Description Your best looking skin , instantly smoother , firmer and more radiant : Lines and wrinkles appear reduced Skin looks firmer and more lifted Skin tone looks more even Enriched with age - defying skincare technology from our highly acclaimed No7 Lift And Luminate TRIPLE ACTION Serum : Matrixyl 3000 PlusTM our most effective anti - wrinkle peptide technology : Hibiscus and Vitamins A and C to help reduce the appearance of pigmentation .
The flexible formula moves with the skin , ensuring it does n't muigrate into lines and wrinkles .
Our uhique blend of optical blurrers and light reflecting particles brighten the skin .
Whilst wearing the product : 97 % saw more even skin tone 85 % saw reduced fine lines 81 % saw firmer skin For best age - defying benefts use together with No7 Lift and Luminate TRIPLE ACTION Serum and Day Cream Shake before use .
Blend on smoothly and evenly with your fingers , sponge or brush Information Made in France The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Warnings Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum Foundation Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 3 Instant Results Wrinkles appear reduced Skin looks firmer Skin tone looks more even Radiant finish Medium coverage Suitable for sensitive skin 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
