1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Enter section text here Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is a vitamin D analog and corticosteroid combination product indicated for the topical treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis vulgaris of the scalp in adults 18 years and older ( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Do not use on the face , axillae or groin ( 1 . 2 ) • Do no use if atrophy is present at the treatment site ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Indication Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is indicated for the topical treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis vulgaris of the scalp in adults 18 years and older .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use • Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should not be used on the face , axillae or groin • Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should not be used if there is atrophy at the treatment site 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Enter section text here Apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension to affected areas on the scalp once daily for 2 weeks or until cleared .
Treatment may be continued for up to 8 weeks ( 2 . 1 ) .
The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 100 g ( 1 . 2 ) .
Shake before use ( 2 ) .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is not for oral , ophthalmic , orintravaginal use .
2 . 1 Usual Dosage and Administration Apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension to affected areas on the scalp once daily for 2 weeks or until cleared .
Treatment may be continued for up to 8 weeks .
The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 100 g . Patients should shake the bottle prior to using the product .
Patients should wash their hands after applying Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Suspension .
Each gram of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of betamethasone ) .
Suspension .
Each gram of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of betamethasone ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here • Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been reported .
If either occurs , discontinue until parameters of calcium metabolism normalize ( 5 . 1 ) • Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome and unmask latent diabetes ( 5 . 2 ) • Rate of adrenal suppression increased with treatment duration ( 5 . 2 ) • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression ( 5 . 2 ) • Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop ( 5 . 2 ) • Potent corticosteroids , use on large areas , prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption ( 5 . 1 ) • Local adverse reactions may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids ( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids ( 5 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Calcium Metabolism Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been observed with use of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
If hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria develop , treatment should be discontinued until parameters of calcium metabolism have normalized .
The effects of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on calcium metabolism following treatment durations of more than 8 weeks have not been evaluated .
5 . 2 Effects on Endocrine System Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
In a study of 32 subjects treated with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp and Taclonex ® Ointment on the body , adrenal suppression was identified in 5 of 32 subjects ( 15 . 6 % ) after 4 weeks of treatment and in 2 of 11 subjects ( 18 . 2 % ) who continued treatment for 8 weeks .
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics ( 12 . 2 ) ] Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] 5 . 3 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 5 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Calcipotriene Allergic contact dermatitis has been observed with use of topical calcipotriene .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 6 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 7 Unevaluated Uses The safety and efficacy of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in patients with known or suspected disorders of calcium metabolism have not been evaluated .
The safety and efficacy of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in patients with erythrodermic , exfoliative or pustular psoriasis have not been evaluated .
The safety and efficacy of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in patients with severe renal insufficiency or severe hepatic disorders have not been evaluated .
5 . 8 Eye Exposures Avoid eye exposures .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension may cause eye irritation .
5 . 9 Ultraviolet Light Exposures Patients who apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension to exposed skin ( e . g . a bald scalp ) should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight , including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy to the scalp in patients who use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are folliculitis and burning sensation of skin ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact LEO Pharma Inc at Phone 1 - 8877 - 494 - 4536 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience The rates of adverse reactions given below were derived from randomized , multicenter , prospective vehicle - and / or active - controlled clinical studies in subjects with scalp psoriasis .
Subjects applied study product once daily for 8 weeks , and the median weekly dose was 12 . 6 g . Adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension and at a rate higher than in subjects treated with vehicle are presented in Table 1 : Table 1 Number and Percentage of Patients with Adverse Reactions in Scalp Psoriasis Studies ( Events Reported by ≥ 1 % of Subjects and for Which a Relationship is Possible ) Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension N = 1 , 953 Betamethasone dipropionate in vehicle N = 1 , 214 Calcipotriene in vehicle N = 979 Vehicle N = 173 Event # of subjects ( % ) Folliculitis 16 ( 1 % ) 12 ( 1 % ) 5 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Burning sensation of skin 13 ( 1 % ) 10 ( 1 % ) 29 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) Other less common reactions ( less than 1 % but more than 0 . 1 % ) were , in decreasing order of incidence : acne , exacerbation of psoriasis , eye irritation , and pustular rash .
In a 52 - week study , adverse reactions that were reported by greater than 1 % of subjects treated with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension were pruritus ( 3 . 6 % ) , psoriasis ( 2 . 4 % ) , erythema ( 2 . 1 % ) , skin irritation ( 1 . 4 % ) , and folliculitis ( 1 . 2 % ) .
The effects of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on calcium metabolism and the HPA axis were not investigated in the 52 - week study .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Enter section text here 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains calcipotriene that has been shown to be fetotoxic and betamethasone dipropionate that has been shown to be teratogenic in animals when given systemically .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the patient justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Teratogenicity studies with calcipotriene were performed by the oral route in rats and rabbits .
In rabbits , increased maternal and fetal toxicity were noted at a dosage of 12 mcg / kg / day ( 144 mcg / m2 / day ) ; a dosage of 36 mcg / kg / day ( 432 mcg / m2 / day ) resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of incomplete ossification of the pubic bones and forelimb phalanges of fetuses .
In a rat study , a dosage of 54 mcg / kg / day ( 324 mcg / m2 / day ) resulted in a significantly increased incidence of skeletal abnormalities ( enlarged fontanelles and extra ribs ) .
The enlarged fontanelles were most likely due to the effect of calcipotriene upon calcium metabolism .
The estimated maternal and fetal no - adverse effect levels ( NOAEL ) in the rat ( 108 mcg / m2 / day ) and rabbit ( 48 mcg / m2 / day ) derived from oral studies are lower than the maximum topical dose of calcipotriene in man ( 460 mcg / m2 / day ) .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits when given by the subcutaneous route at doses of 156 mcg / kg ( 468 mcg / m2 / day ) and 2 . 5 mcg / kg ( 30 mcg / m2 / day ) , respectively .
Those dose levels are lower than the maximum topical dose in man ( about 5 , 950 mcg / m2 / day ) .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernia , exencephaly and cleft palate .
Pregnant women were excluded from the clinical studies conducted with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topically administered calcipotriene or corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of the use of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in pediatric patients have not been studied .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children under the age of 12 years may be at particular risk of systemic adverse effects when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in the controlled clinical studies of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension , 334 were 65 years or older , while 84 were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension were observed between these patients and younger patients .
All other reported clinical experience has not identified any differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains calcipotriene hydrate and betamethasone dipropionate .
It is intended for topical use on the scalp .
Calcipotriene hydrate is a synthetic vitamin D3 analogue .
Chemically , calcipotriene hydrate is 9 , 10 - Secochola - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1 , 3 , 24 - triol , 24 - cyclo - propyl - , monohydrate , ( 1α , 3ß , 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E , 24 S ) with the empirical formula C27H40O3 , H2O , a molecular weight of 430 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcipotriene hydrate is a white to almost white , crystalline compound .
Betamethasone dipropionate is a synthetic corticosteroid .
Betamethasone dipropionate has the chemical name Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione - 9 - fluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 17 , 21 - bis ( 1 - oxypropoxy ) - ( 11ß , 16ß ) , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to almost white , crystalline powder .
Each gram of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of betamethasone ) in a base of hydrogenated castor oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether and mineral oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Enter section text here 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension combines the pharmacological effects of calcipotriene hydrate as a synthetic vitamin D3 analogue and betamethasone dipropionate as a synthetic corticosteroid .
However , while their pharmacologic and clinical effects are known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in psoriasis vulgaris are unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression : HPA axis suppression was evaluated in adult subjects ( N = 32 ) with extensive psoriasis involving at least 30 % of the scalp and , in total , 15 - 30 % of the body surface area .
Treatment consisted of once daily application of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp in combination with Taclonex ® Ointment on the body for 4 to 8 weeks .
Adrenal suppression as indicated by a 30 - minute post - stimulation cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL was observed in 5 of 32 subjects ( 15 . 6 % ) after 4 weeks of treatment and in 2 of 11 subjects ( 18 . 2 % ) who continued treatment for 8 weeks .
Effects on Calcium Metabolism : In the study described above , the effects of once daily application of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp in combination with Taclonex ® Ointment on the body for 4 to 8 weeks on calcium metabolism were also examined .
Following once daily application of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp in combination with Taclonex ® Ointment on the body , elevated urinary calcium levels outside the normal range were observed in two subjects ( one at 4 weeks and one at 8 weeks ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension : The systemic effect of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in extensive psoriasis was investigated in the study described above .
In this study , the serum levels of calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate and their major metabolites were measured after 4 and 8 weeks of once daily application of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp in combination with Taclonex ® Ointment on the body .
Calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate were below the lower limit of quantification in all serum samples of the 34 subjects evaluated .
However , one major metabolite of calcipotriene ( MC1080 ) was quantifiable in 10 of 34 ( 29 . 4 % ) subjects at week 4 and in five of 12 ( 41 . 7 % ) subjects at week 8 .
The major metabolite of betamethasone dipropionate , betamethasone 17 - propionate ( B17P ) was also quantifiable in 19 of 34 ( 55 . 9 % ) subjects at week 4 and seven of 12 ( 58 . 3 % ) subjects at week 8 .
The serum concentrations for MC1080 ranged from 20 - 75 pg / mL .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Metabolism Calcipotriene : Calcipotriene metabolism following systemic uptake is rapid and occurs in the liver .
The primary metabolites of calcipotriene are less potent than the parent compound .
Calcipotriene is metabolized to MC1046 ( the α , ß - unsaturated ketone analog of calcipotriene ) , which is metabolized further to MC1080 ( a saturated ketone analog ) .
MC1080 is the major metabolite in plasma .
MC1080 is slowly metabolized to calcitroic acid .
Betamethasone dipropionate : Betamethasone dipropionate is metabolized to betamethasone 17 - propionate and betamethasone , including the 6ß - hydroxy derivatives of those compounds by hydrolysis .
Betamethasone 17 - propionate ( B17P ) is the primary metabolite .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY Enter section text here 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility When calcipotriene was applied topically for up to 24 months at dosages of 3 , 10 and 30 mcg / kg / day ( corresponding to 9 , 30 and 90 mcg / m2 / day ) , no biologically significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
In a study in which albino hairless mice were exposed to both ultra - violet radiation ( UVR ) and topically applied calcipotriene , a reduction in the time required for UVR to induce the formation of skin tumors was observed ( statistically significant in males only ) , suggesting that calcipotriene may enhance the effect of UVR to induce skin tumors .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Calcipotriene did not elicit any genotoxic effects in the Ames mutagenicity assay , the mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , or the mouse micronucleus test .
Betamethasone dipropionate did not elicit any genotoxic effect in the Ames mutagenicity assay , the mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , or in the rat micronucleus test .
Studies in rats at doses of up to 54 mcg / kg / day ( 324 mcg / m2 / day ) of calcipotriene indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
Studies in male rats at oral doses of up to 200 mcg / kg / day ( 1 , 200 mcg / m2 / day ) , and in female rats at oral doses of up to 1 , 000 mcg / kg / day ( 6 , 000 mcg / m2 / day ) of betamethasone dipropionate indicated no impairment of fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Enter section text here 14 . 1 Controlled Clinical Studies Two multicenter , randomized , double - blind studies were conducted .
In Study One , 1 , 407 subjects were randomized to one of four treatment groups : Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension , betamethasone dipropionate in the same vehicle , calcipotriene hydrate in the same vehicle , or the vehicle alone .
Study Two did not include a vehicle arm ; 1 , 280 subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups : Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension , betamethasone dipropionate in the same vehicle , or calcipotriene hydrate in the same vehicle .
Both studies enrolled subjects with moderate to very severe scalp psoriasis .
The majority of subjects had disease of moderate severity at baseline .
Subjects were treated once daily for 8 weeks .
Efficacy was assessed as the proportion of patients at Week 8 with absent or very mild disease according to an Investigator ’ s Global Assessment of Disease Severity .
" Clear " was defined as no evidence of redness , thickness or scaling .
" Almost clear " was defined as an overall clinical picture of lesions with the presence of minimal erythema .
Table 2 contains the response rates in each of these two trials .
Table 2 Percentage of Patients with Clear or Almost Clear Disease According to the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment of Disease Severity Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension Betamethasone dipropionate in vehicle Calcipotriene in vehicle Vehicle Study One Week 2 ( N = 494 ) 55 . 5 % ( N = 531 ) 46 . 1 % ( N = 256 ) 18 . 4 % ( N = 126 ) 9 . 5 % Week 8 70 . 0 % 63 . 1 % 36 . 7 % 19 . 8 % Study Two Week 2 ( N = 512 ) 47 . 1 % ( N = 517 ) 36 . 4 % ( N = 251 ) 12 . 7 % - - Week 8 67 . 2 % 59 . 6 % 41 . 0 % - 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Enter section text here 16 . 1 How Supplied Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is available in bottles of : 60 g ( NDC 54868 - 6091 - 0 ) 16 . 2 Storage Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Keep the bottle in the outer carton when not in use .
The product should be used within three months after it has been opened .
16 . 3 Handling Keep out of reach of children .
Shake before use .
Rx only .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should receive the following information and instructions .
17 . 1 Instructions for Use This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the face or eyes .
As with any topical medication , patients should wash hands after application .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it has been prescribed .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered as to be occlusive , unless directed by the physician .
17 . 2 Adverse Reactions Patients should report any signs of adverse reactions to their physician .
17 . 3 Concomitant Use of other Corticosteroids Other products containing calcipotriene or a corticosteroid should not be used with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension without first talking to the physician .
17 . 4 Excessive Exposure to Light Patients who use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients who use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
PATIENT INFORMATIONTaclonex Scalp ® ( pronounced TAK - lo - NEKS skalp ) ( calcipotriene , 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate , 0 . 064 % ) Topical Suspension Read the Patient Information that comes with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension before you start using it and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or treatment .
Important information : Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is for use on the scalp only ( topical use only ) .
Do not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the face , under arms or on groin area .
Do not swallow Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Another product , Taclonex ® Ointment contains the same medicine that is in Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension and is used to treat psoriasis vulgaris of the skin .
If you use both medicines to treat your psoriasis vulgaris , be sure to follow your doctor ’ s directions carefully so that you do not use too much of one or both of these medicines .
What is Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is a prescription medicine that is for use on the scalp only ( a topical medicine ) .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is used to treat psoriasis vulgaris in adults 18 years of age and older .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is not recommended for use in children .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension has not been studied in patients under the age of 18 .
Who should not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Do not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension if you : • have a calcium metabolism disorder • have one of the following types of psoriasis : • erythrodermic psoriasis • exfoliative psoriasis • pustular psoriasis • have severe kidney or liver disease .
What should I tell my doctor before using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Tell your doctor about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have a skin infection on your scalp .
Your skin infection should be treated before you start using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension • have thin - skin ( atrophy ) at the site to be treated .
You should not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension • are getting phototherapy treatments ( light therapy ) for your psoriasis • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension can harm your unborn baby .
You and your doctor will have to decide if Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension is right for you while pregnant • are breastfeeding .
It is not known if Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension passes into your milk and can harm your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription , and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension and some other medicines may interact with each other .
Especially tell your doctor if you use : • other corticosteroid medicines • other medicines for your psoriasis .
How should I use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
• Use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Do not use more than the maximum recommended weekly amount of 100 grams of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
• Apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension to affected areas on the scalp once daily for 2 weeks or until cleared .
Treatment may be continued for up to 8 weeks .
Do not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension for more than 8 weeks unless prescribed by your doctor .
• Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension should only be used on the scalp .
Do not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the face , under arms or on groin area .
If you accidentally get Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on your face or in your eyes wash the area with water right away .
• If you forget to use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension , use it as soon as you remember .
Then go on as before .
• Wash your hands well after using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
• Do not wash your hair right after applying Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
The medicine will not work as well to treat your psoriasis .
Using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension : • Do not bandage or tightly cover or wrap the treated skin area .
• Do not apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension in the 12 hours before or after any chemical treatments to your hair .
Since hair treatments may involve strong chemicals , talk with your doctor first .
• Shake the bottle before use .
Remove the cap and apply Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension one time each day to the areas of your scalp affected by psoriasis , using the following steps ( See the figures below ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What should I avoid while using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Avoid spending a long time in sunlight .
Avoid tanning booths and sun lamps .
Use sunscreen and wear a hat if you have to be in sunlight .
Talk to your doctor if you get a sunburn .
What are the possible side effects of Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension may cause serious side effects .
Serious side effects are more likely to happen if you use too much Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension , use it for too long , or use it with other topical medicines that contain corticosteroids , calcipotriene , or certain other ingredients .
Check with your health care professional before using other topical medicines .
Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension can pass through your skin and be absorbed into the body .
Serious side effects may include : • too much calcium in your blood • adrenal gland problems Your doctor may do special blood and urine tests to check your calcium levels and adrenal gland function while you are using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Other side effects include : • itching • inflamed hair pores ( folliculitis ) • skin pain or irritation • skin burning • redness of the skin • worsening of psoriasis Call your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the side effects with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I store Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
• Store Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension between 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate .
• Keep the bottle in the carton when not in use .
• Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension has an expiration date ( exp . )
marked on the bottom of the bottle .
Do not use the topical suspension after this date .
• Use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension within three months after it has been opened .
After three months , safely throw away the bottle with any leftover Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
If you need to keep using Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension or begin using it again , use a new bottle .
• Keep Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension that is written for health professionals .
For more information , please visit www . taclonex . com or call 1 - 877 - 494 - 4536 .
What are the ingredients in Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension ?
Active ingredients : calcipotriene hydrate , betamethasone dipropionate .
Inactive ingredients : hydrogenated castor oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether and mineral oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : LEO Pharmaceutical Products Ltd . , Ballerup , Denmark LEO ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : LEO Pharma Inc . 1 Sylvan Way , Parsippany , NJ 07054 , USA 1 - 877 - 494 - 4536 U . S . Patent Nos .
RE39 , 706 E , 6 , 753 , 013 and 6 , 787 , 529 .
024580 - 00 December 2009 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only TACLONEX SCALP ® ( calcipotriene 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 064 % ) Topical Suspension For Topical Use Only Net Wt .
60 g Each gram contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of betamethasone ) in a base of hydrogenated castor oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether and mineral oil .
Store Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Keep the bottle in the outer carton when not in use .
Shake before use .
Discard product three months after opening .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Usual dosage : Apply once daily , or as directed by physician .
See insert for complete information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
