Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Each gram of Skin Lightening Complex contains : Active ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive ingredients : water , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , sodium lauryl sulfate , TEA - salicylate , lactic acid , phenyl trimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , sodium metabisulfite , ascorbic acid , methylparaben , disodium EDTA , propylparaben , saponins , BHT Description : Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; the molecular weight is 110 . 11 g / mol .
The chemical structure is in the diagram to the right .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology : Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunblocking agents or sunscreen agents .
Indications and Usage : For the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
Contraindications : People with prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients should not use it .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
Dosage and Administration : A thin application should be applied once or twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure should be limited by using a sunscreen agent , a sunblocking agent , or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent darkening from reoccurring .
Warnings : Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent , which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , the product should be discontinued and a physician consulted .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and lips .
In case of accidental contact , the patient should rinse thoroughly with water and contact a physician .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Precautions : ( also see WARNINGS ) Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation , which does not preclude treatment .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
Pediatric Usage : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Adverse Reactions : No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the product should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
How Supplied : Obagi Skin Lightening Complex is available as follows : 2 . 0 oz .
( 57 g ) tube NDC 62032 - 120 - 60 Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° C - 25 ° C ( 59 ° F - 77 ° F ) OBAGI ® MEDICAL Obagi is a registered trademark of OMP , Inc .
Distributed by OMP , Inc . © 2012 Obagi Medical Products , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Long Beach , CA 90806 Made in USA .
www . obagi . com 60650612 Z 09 / 12 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g Carton NDC 62032 - 120 - 60 OBAGI ® MEDICAL ELASTIderm ® décolletage Chest and Neck Skin Lightening Complex Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Rx Only Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
