DESCRIPTION Hydroxyzine pamoate is a light yellow , practically odorless powder practically insoluble in water and methanol and freely soluble in dimethylformamide .
It is chemically designated as ( ± ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol 4 , 4 ’ - methylenebis [ 3 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthoate ] ( 1 : 1 ) [ 10246 - 75 - 0 ] and can be structurally represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 21 H 27 CIN 2 O 2 • C 23 H 16 O 6 M . W . 763 . 27 Each capsule , for oral administration , contains hydroxyzine pamoate equivalent to hydroxyzine hydrochloride 25 mg or 50 mg .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , sodium starch glycolate ( potato ) , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The capsule shell contains the following ingredients : D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Green # 3 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The edible imprinting ink contains the following ingredients : black iron oxide , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 , FD & C Red # 40 , and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyzine pamoate is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydroxyzine pamoate clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia , hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine ( Demerol ® ) and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine , their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of the drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine pamoate capsules .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
Geriatric Use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine pamoate capsules included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine pamoate capsules has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine pamoate capsules and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine pamoate are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Skin and Appendages Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is associated with fixed drug eruptions in post - marketing reports .
Anticholinergic Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity , including rare instances of tremor and convulsions , has been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
In post - marketing experience , the following additional undesirable effects have been reported : Body as a Whole : allergic reaction Nervous System : headache Psychiatric : hallucination Skin and Appendages : pruritus , rash , urticaria OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of overdosage of hydroxyzine pamoate is hypersedation .
Other reported signs and symptoms were convulsions , stupor , nausea and vomiting .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and vasopressors ( do not use epinephrine as hydroxyzine counteracts its pressor action . )
Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP , may be used to counteract central nervous system depressant effects .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : in adults , 50 mg to 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 mg to 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all medications , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED HydrOXYzine Pamoate Capsules USP , for oral administration , are available as : 25 mg : ( equivalent to 25 mg hydroxyzine hydrochloride ) are light green / dark green capsules imprinted “ E 613 ” and supplied as : NDC 0185 - 0674 - 01 bottles of 100 NDC 0185 - 0674 - 05 bottles of 500 NDC 0185 - 0674 - 10 bottles of 1000 50 mg : ( equivalent to 50 mg hydroxyzine hydrochloride ) are dark green / white capsules imprinted “ E 615 ” and supplied as : NDC 0185 - 0615 - 01 bottles of 100 NDC 0185 - 0615 - 05 bottles of 500 NDC 0185 - 0615 - 10 bottles of 1000 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure , as required .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
25 mg Manufactured by Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 46114010 Rev . 07 / 14 50 mg Manufactured for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 OS7127 Rev . 07 / 14 MF0674REV07 / 14 MG # 16920 Package / Label Display Panel - 50 mg 30 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
