Rx only DESCRIPTION Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution USP , contains betaxolol hydrochloride , a cardioselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent , in a sterile isotonic solution .
Betaxolol hydrochloride is a white , crystalline powder , soluble in water , with a molecular weight of 343 . 90 .
The structural formula is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C18H29NO3 • HCl Chemical Name : ( ± ) - 1 [ p - [ 2 - ( Cyclopropylmethoxy ) ethyl ] phenoxy ] - 3 - ( isopropylamino ) - 2 - propanol hydrochloride .
Each mL of Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution for ophthalmic administration contains : Active : 5 . 6 mg betaxolol hydrochloride equivalent to betaxolol base 5 mg ; Inactives : Edetate Disodium , Sodium Chloride , Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH and Water for Injection ; Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Betaxolol , a cardioselective ( beta - 1 - adrenergic ) receptor blocking agent , does not have significant membrane - stabilizing ( local anesthetic ) activity and is devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic action .
Orally administered beta - adrenergic blocking agents reduce cardiac output in healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists may inhibit the sympathetic stimulatory effect necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
When instilled in the eye , Betaxolol has the action of reducing elevated as well as normal intraocular pressure , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Ophthalmic betaxolol has minimal effect on pulmonary and cardiovascular parameters .
Ophthalmic betaxolol ( one drop in each eye ) was compared to timolol and placebo in a three - way crossover study challenging nine patients with reactive airway disease who were selected on the basis of having at least a 15 % reduction in the forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV1 ) after administration of ophthalmic timolol .
Betaxolol had no significant effect on pulmonary function as measured by FEV1 , Forced Vital Capacity ( FVC ) and FEV1 / VC .
Additionally , the action of Isoproterenol , a beta stimulant administered at the end of the study was not inhibited by ophthalmic betaxolol .
In contrast , ophthalmic timolol significantly decreased these pulmonary functions .
1 Schoene , R . B . et al . , Am .
J . Ophthal .
97 : 86 , 1984 .
aTwice the clinical concentration .
bInhaled at 240 minutes ; measurement at 270 minutes .
* Timolol statistically different from betaxolol and placebo ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
FEV1 - Percent Change from Baseline1 Means Betaxolol 1 . 0 % a Timolol 0 . 5 % Placebo Baseline 1 . 6 1 . 4 1 . 4 60 Minutes 2 . 3 - 25 . 7 * 5 . 8 120 Minutes 1 . 6 - 27 . 4 * 7 . 5 240 Minutes - 6 . 4 - 26 . 9 * 6 . 9 Isoproterenolb 36 . 1 - 12 . 4 * 42 . 8 No evidence of cardiovascular beta - adrenergic blockade during exercise was observed with betaxolol in a double - masked , three - way crossover study in 24 normal subjects comparing ophthalmic betaxolol , timolol and placebo for effect on blood pressure and heart rate .
Mean arterial blood pressure was not affected by any treatment ; however , ophthalmic timolol produced a significant decrease in the mean heart rate .
1 Atkins , J . M . et al . , Am .
J . Oph .
99 : 173 - 175 , Feb . , 1985 .
aTwice the clinical concentration .
* Mean pulse rate significantly lower for timolol than betaxolol or placebo ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Mean Heart Rates1 Bruce Stress Exercise Test TREATMENT Minutes Betaxolol 1 % a Timolol 0 . 5 % Placebo 0 79 . 2 79 . 3 81 . 2 2 130 . 2 126 . 0 130 . 4 4 133 . 4 128 . 0 * 134 . 3 6 136 . 4 129 . 2 * 137 . 9 8 139 . 8 131 . 8 * 139 . 4 10 140 . 8 131 . 8 * 141 . 3 Clinical Studies : Optic nerve head damage and visual field loss are the result of a sustained elevated intraocular pressure and poor ocular perfusion .
Betaxolol has the action of reducing elevated as well as normal intraocular pressure , and the mechanism of ocular hypotensive action appears to be a reduction of aqueous production as demonstrated by tonography and aqueous fluorophotometry .
The onset of action with Betaxolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution can generally be noted within 30 minutes and the maximal effect can usually be detected 2 hours after topical administration .
A single dose provides a 12 - hour reduction in intraocular pressure .
Clinical observation of glaucoma patients treated with betaxolol ophthalmic solution for up to three years shows that the intraocular pressure lowering effect is well maintained .
Clinical studies show that topical betaxolol ophthalmic solution reduces mean intraocular pressure 25 % from baseline .
In trials using 22 mmHg as a generally accepted index of intraocular pressure control , betaxolol ophthalmic solution was effective in more than 94 % of the population studied , of which 73 % were treated with the beta blocker alone .
In controlled , double - masked studies , the magnitude and duration of the ocular hypotensive effect of ophthalmic betaxolol solution and ophthalmic timolol solution were clinically equivalent .
Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution has also been used successfully in glaucoma patients who have undergone a laser trabeculoplasty and have needed additional long - term ocular hypotensive therapy .
Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution has been well tolerated in glaucoma patients wearing hard or soft contact lenses and in aphakic patients .
Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution does not produce miosis or accommodative spasm which are frequently seen with miotic agents .
The blurred vision and night blindness often associated with standard miotic therapy are not associated with Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution .
Thus , patients with central lenticular opacities avoid the visual impairment caused by a constricted pupil .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution has been shown to be effective in lowering intraocular pressure and is indicated in the treatment of ocular hypertension and chronic open - angle glaucoma .
It may be used alone or in combination with other anti - glaucoma drugs .
In clinical studies , betaxolol ophthalmic solution was safely used to lower intraocular pressure in 47 patients with both glaucoma and reactive airway disease who were followed for a mean period of 15 months .
However , caution should be used in treating patients with severe reactive airway disease or a history of asthma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Betaxolol is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia , greater than a first degree atrioventricular block , cardiogenic shock , or patients with overt cardiac failure .
WARNINGS Topically applied beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported with topical application of beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution has been shown to have a minor effect on heart rate and blood pressure in clinical studies .
Caution should be used in treating patients with a history of cardiac failure or heart block .
Treatment with Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution should be discontinued at the first signs of cardiac failure .
PRECAUTIONS General : Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Diabetes Mellitus : Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
Muscle Weakness : Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Major Surgery : Consideration should be given to the gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to general anesthesia because of the reduced ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated sympathetic reflex stimuli .
Pulmonary : Caution should be exercised in the treatment of glaucoma patients with excessive restriction of pulmonary function .
There have been reports of asthmatic attacks and pulmonary distress during betaxolol treatment .
Although rechallenges of some such patients with ophthalmic betaxolol has not adversely affected pulmonary function test results , the possibility of adverse pulmonary effects in patients sensitive to beta - blockers cannot be ruled out .
Risk from Anaphylactic Reaction : While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
Drug Interactions : Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution should be observed for a potential additive effect either on the intraocular pressure or on the known systemic effects of beta blockade .
Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or bradycardia .
Betaxolol is an adrenergic blocking agent ; therefore , caution should be exercised in patients using concomitant adrenergic psychotropic drugs .
Ocular : In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate treatment objective is to reopen the angle by constriction of the pupil with a miotic agent .
Betaxolol has little or no effect on the pupil .
When Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution is used to reduce elevated intraocular pressure in angle - closure glaucoma , it should be used with a miotic and not alone .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Lifetime studies with betaxolol HCl have been completed in mice at oral doses of 6 , 20 or 60 mg / kg / day and in rats at 3 , 12 or 48 mg / kg / day ; betaxolol HCl demonstrated no carcinogenic effect .
Higher dose levels were not tested .
In a variety of in vitro and in vivo bacterial and mammalian cell assays , betaxolol HCl was nonmutagenic .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Reproduction , teratology , and peri - and postnatal studies have been conducted with orally administered betaxolol HCl in rats and rabbits .
There was evidence of drug related postimplantation loss in rabbits and rats at dose levels above 12 mg / kg and 128 mg / kg , respectively .
Betaxolol HCl was not shown to be teratogenic , however , and there were no other adverse effects on reproduction at subtoxic dose levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether betaxolol is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution .
Ocular : Discomfort of short duration was experienced by one in four patients , but none discontinued therapy ; occasional tearing has been reported .
Rare instances of decreased corneal sensitivity , erythema , itching sensation , corneal punctate staining , keratitis , anisocoria , edema , and photophobia have been reported .
Additional medical events reported with other formulations of betaxolol include blurred vision , foreign body sensation , dryness of the eyes , inflammation , discharge , ocular pain , decreased visual acuity , and crusty lashes .
Systemic : Systemic reactions following administration of Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution have been rarely reported .
These include : Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , heart block and congestive failure .
Pulmonary : Pulmonary distress characterized by dyspnea , bronchospasm , thickened bronchial secretions , asthma and respiratory failure .
Central Nervous System : Insomnia , dizziness , vertigo , headaches , depression , lethargy , and increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis .
Other : Hives , toxic epidermal necrolysis , hair loss and glossitis .
OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage of humans .
The oral LD50 of the drug ranged from 350 - 920 mg / kg in mice and 860 - 1050 mg / kg in rats .
The symptoms which might be expected with an overdose of a systemically administered beta - 1 - adrenergic receptor blocker agent are bradycardia , hypotension and acute cardiac failure .
A topical overdose of Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution may be flushed from the eye ( s ) with warm tap water .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one to two drops of Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily .
In some patients , the intraocular pressure lowering responses to Betaxolol may require a few weeks to stabilize .
As with any new medication , careful monitoring of patients is advised .
If the intraocular pressure of the patient is not adequately controlled on this regimen , concomitant therapy with pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or epinephrine and / or carbonic anhydrase inhibitors can be instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % is a sterile , isotonic , aqueous solution of betaxolol hydrochloride , USP .
Supplied as follows : 2 . 5 mL , 5 mL , 10 mL and 15 mL in plastic ophthalmic dropper tip bottles .
NDC 17478 - 705 - 25 2 . 5 mL Bottle NDC 17478 - 705 - 10 5 mL Bottle NDC 17478 - 705 - 11 10 mL Bottle NDC 17478 - 705 - 12 15 mL Bottle Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Akorn Manufactued by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 BX00N Rev . 06 / 16 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 705 - 10 Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % Betaxolol Equivalent ( Betaxolol HCl 5 . 6 mg / mL ) Rx only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 17478 - 705 - 10 Betaxolol Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % Betaxolol Equivalent ( Betaxolol HCl 5 . 6 mg / mL ) Sterile 5 mL Rx only Akorn Logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
