Active ingredients Naphazoline HCl ( 0 . 02675 % ) Pheniramine maleate ( 0 . 315 % ) Purpose Redness reliever Antihistamine Uses • • temporarily relieves itching and redness caused by pollen , ragweed , grass , animal hair and dander .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product • • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • • narrow angle glaucoma When using this product • • overuse may cause more eye redness • • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • you may feel a brief tingling after putting drops in eye • • replace cap after use • • remove contact lenses before using Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience • • eye pain • • changes in vision • • redness or irritation of the eye that worsens or lasts more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Accidental oral ingestion in infants and children may lead to coma and marked reduction in body temperature .
Directions • • Adults and children 6 years of age and older : Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to 4 times daily .
• • Children under 6 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • this package is child - resistant • • protect from light • • use before expiration date marked on the carton or bottle Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , boric acid , edetate disodium , hypromellose , purified water , sodium borate , sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid may be used to adjust pH . Questions or Comments ?
Call : 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 11673 - 430 - 15 Compare to active ingredient in Opcon - A * eye allergy relief drops Pheniramine Maleate 0 . 315 % and Naphazoline Hydrochloride 0 . 02675 % Ophthalmic Solution ITCHING AND REDNESS RELIEVER EYE DROPS relieves itching and redness caused by grass , ragweed , pollen , animal hair and dander [ drop icon ] [ arrow icon ] up & up ™ STERILE 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
