ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Silicon Dioxide 5 . 00 % Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate 1 . 00 % Pyridoxine Hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Sodium Fluoride 0 . 22 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS D - sorbitol , microcrystalline cellulose , bamboo salt , xylitol , steviol glycosides , enzymatically modified stevia , xanthan gum , hydroxypropylcellulose , citric acid , sodium bicarbonate , magnesium stearate , L - menthol , Combined Flavor , Chitosan , Papain , Grape Seed extract , sodium ascorbate , Tocopherol Acetate PURPOSE Teeth - whitening / anti - plague Prevent tartar deposition Prevent periodontitis Prevent tooth decay WARNINGS 1 .
Do not use it for anything other than brushing teeth , and be careful not to swallow it .
2 .
Keep it away from the children under age 6 .
3 .
If a child ( under age of 6 ) swallowed a large dose , please contact the doctor or health professionals immediately .
4 .
Keep the lid closed tightly and dry .
5 .
Don ’ t change the bottle to a new container .
6 .
Keep it away from the pets .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep it away from the children under age 6 .
If a child ( under age of 6 ) swallowed a large dose , please contact the doctor or health professionals immediately .
Uses ■ Help to reduce tooth decay , teeth - whitening , and morning - breath .
■ Aid in preventing gingivitis , periodontitis , gum disease , and tartar deposition .
Directions ■ Adults and children 7 yrs .
older : Open the lid and take out one tablet .
■ Chew 1 tablet until the bubbles formed .
Brush teeth thoroughly at least twice a day , or use as directed by a dentist or physician .
■ Do not swallow .
■ Children under 6 yrs . : not recommend for the ages .
Other Information ■ Keep away from direct sunlight and humid places .
■ Store in the cabinet where children can ’ t reach .
■ Do not mix with other medicines nor pour water into it .
QUESTIONS website : www . vontee . co phone : ( + 82 ) 1877 - 3027 Package Label Vontee toothpaste tablets ( 30 tablets / 21 g ) NDC : 80687 - 010 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label Vontee toothpaste tablets ( 100 tablets / 70 g ) NDC : 80687 - 010 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
