Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] 8008 mOsmol / L ( calc . )
( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 when diluted to a concentration of 0 . 9 % ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Description Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % , is a concentrated , nonisotonic , sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of sodium chloride 234 mg in Water for Injection .
pH adjusted with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid if necessary .
Sodium chloride is an electrolyte replenisher .
It occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water ; it is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
Clinical Pharmacology Sodium chloride comprises over 90 % of the inorganic constituents of the blood serum .
Both its ions are physiologically important .
Sodium , more than any other ion , determines the osmotic pressure of interstitial fluids and the degree of hydration of tissues .
When the intake of the chloride ion is less than is excreted , there is a relative increase in the blood bicarbonate level , producing the condition known as alkalosis .
Other symptoms of sodium chloride deficiency are nausea , vomiting and increased irritability of muscles , evidenced by cramps and , possibly , convulsions .
It is well known that excessive sweating will cause ‘‘ heatcramps , ’’ i . e . , muscle cramps in the abdomen and extremities , which can be completely relieved only by ingestion of a weak salt solution .
Approximately 25 % of the total body sodium is found in the bone .
The regulation of salt and water metabolism is governed by different mechanisms ; however , changes in the intake , distribution and output of salt are , in health , associated with collateral shifts of water so that electrolyte concentrations are maintained within a narrow range .
In the presence of disease affecting the cardiovascular , hepatic or renal system or in certain endocrinologic disorders , changes in the rate of excretion of salt and water will disturb the homeostatic equilibrium .
Frequently , abnormalities in the metabolism of water or salt may occur as a result of vomiting , diarrhea , gastrointestinal suction and fever .
Excessive sweating will produce loss of water or salt , but since the electrolyte concentration is hypotonic , loss of water will predominate .
The normal salt intake ranges from 5 to 15 grams daily , most of which is excreted by the kidneys .
The control of water and salt excretion in urine is very intricate , involving filtration by the glomerulus and reabsorption by the tubules of approximately 99 % of the filtered load .
The actual quantities excreted depends on the requirements prevailing at the moment .
The finer adjustments of the tubular absorptive mechanisms are influenced by osmotic interrelationships between cell water , plasma and urine and by certain steroid hormones influencing electrolyte excretion and the posterior pituitary hormone regulating water excretion .
When food intake ceases or salt is withheld , the content of sodium chloride in urine diminishes rapidly so that the body stores are retained .
Similar renal retention of electrolytes occurs when salt is lost via gastrointestinal secretion through vomiting , etc .
In other conditions , such as congestive heart failure , cirrhosis , nephritis or hypersecretion of the adrenal cortical hormones , the kidney fails to eliminate sufficient sodium .
This results in retention of both salt and water , producing an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid , which may be effectively combated by a sharp restriction of salt intake and use of a diuretic .
Depletion of body salt may be caused in many ways , one of which is too energetic treatment of fluid and sodium retention .
Besides this , diabetic acidosis , burns , excessive sweating with free drinking of water , repeated paracentesis for removal of ascitic fluid , adrenal cortical hypofunction and certain forms of nephritis , as well as abnormal losses of gastrointestinal secretions , will cause marked salt depletion .
With salt loss , there is a reduction of the osmotic pressure of the extracellular fluid ; the urine volume may be retained but it is free of sodium chloride .
Indications and Usage Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % , is indicated as an additive in parenteral fluid therapy for use in patients who have special problems of sodium electrolyte intake or excretion .
It is intended to meet the specific requirements of the patient with unusual fluid and electrolyte needs .
After available clinical and laboratory information is considered and correlated , the appropriate number of milliequivalents of sodium chloride required can be withdrawn from Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % and diluted for use .
Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated for the treatment of sodium , chloride and water deficiencies that commonly occur in many diseases .
Isotonic Sodium Chloride Injection should be limited to cases in which the chloride loss is greater than the sodium loss , as in vomiting from pyloric obstruction , or in which the loss is about equal , as in vomiting from duodenal , jejunal or ileal obstruction and in the replacement of aspirated gastrointestinal fluids .
The toxic symptoms that follow various forms of intestinal obstruction are accompanied by a marked reduction of blood chloride and often sodium chloride has a lifesaving effect .
Symptoms of sodium chloride deficiency are very similar to those of Addison ’ s disease and large doses of sodium chloride will produce temporary alleviation of the symptoms .
Other disorders in which sodium chloride is therapeutically useful include extensive burns , failure of gastric secretion and postoperative intestinal paralysis .
Contraindications Surgical patients should seldom receive salt - containing solutions immediately following surgery unless factors producing salt depletion are present .
Because of renal retention of salt during surgery , additional electrolyte given intravenously may result in fluid retention , edema and overloading of the circulation .
Warnings This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % is hypertonic and must be diluted prior to administration .
Inadvertent direct injection or absorption of concentrated sodium chloride solution may give rise to sudden hypernatremia and such complications as cardiovascular shock , central nervous system disorders , extensive hemolysis and cortical necrosis of the kidneys .
Precautions General Excessive amounts of sodium chloride by any route may cause hypopotassemia and acidosis .
Excessive amounts by the parenteral route may precipitate congestive heart failure and acute pulmonary edema , especially in patients with cardiovascular disease and in patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin or drugs that may give rise to sodium retention .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sodium chloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Chloride Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Use in Children Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Adverse Reactions Parenteral administration of quantities of sodium in excess of the amount of water or sodium chloride needed or at a rate more rapid than can be accommodated by the patient ’ s circulatory function may result in edema and clinical findings resembling those of congestive heart failure .
Adverse effects are particularly likely to develop in patients with impaired renal or cardiac function .
Signs of postoperative salt intolerance include cellular dehydration , weakness , disorientation , anorexia , nausea , distention , deep respiration , oliguria and increased blood urea nitrogen .
Overdosage Administration of too much sodium chloride may result in serious electrolyte disturbances with resulting retention of water , edema , loss of potassium and aggravation of an existing acidosis .
When intake of sodium chloride is excessive , excretion of crystalloids is increased in an attempt to maintain normal osmotic pressure .
Thus there is increased excretion of potassium and of bicarbonate and , consequently , a tendency toward acidosis .
There is also a rapid elimination of any foreign salt , such as iodide and bromide , being used for therapy .
Dosage and Administration The dosage of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % , as an additive in parenteral fluid therapy is predicated on specific requirements of the patient after necessary clinical and laboratory information is considered and correlated .
The appropriate volume is then withdrawn for proper dilution .
Having determined the milliequivalents of sodium chloride to be added , divide by four to calculate the numbers of milliliters ( mL ) of sodium chloride to be used .
Withdraw this volume aseptically and transfer the additive solution into appropriate intravenous solutions such as 5 % Dextrose Injection .
The properly diluted solutions may be given intravenously .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
How Supplied Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 23 . 4 % is supplied as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Preservative Free .
Discard unused portion .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] FRESENIUS KABI Lake Zurich , IL 66047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451644 A Revised : April 2021 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
