Rx only DESCRIPTIONButalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets , USP are supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Butalbital ( 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutylbarbituric acid ) , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a short to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] BUTALBITAL STRUCTURE IMAGE Acetaminophen ( 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide ) , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ACETAMINOPHEN STRUCTURE IMAGE Caffeine ( 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine ) , a bitter , white powder or white - glistening needles , is a central nervous system stimulant .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CAFFEINE STRUCTURE IMAGE Each Butalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablet contains : Butalbital ......................................................................................
50 mg Acetaminophen .......................................................................... 500 mg Caffeine ........................................................................................ 40 mgIn addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYThis combination drug product is intended as a treatment for tension headache .
It consists of a fixed combination of butalbital , acetaminophen and caffeine .
The role each component plays in the relief of the complex of symptoms known as tension headache is incompletely understood .
The behavior of the individual components is described below .
ButalbitalButalbital is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is expected to distribute to most tissues in the body .
Barbiturates in general may appear in breast milk and readily cross the placental barrier .
They are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree and binding increases directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Elimination of butalbital is primarily via the kidney ( 59 % to 88 % of the dose ) as unchanged drug or metabolites .
The plasma half - life is about 35 hours .
Urinary excretion products include parent drug ( about 3 . 6 % of the dose ) , 5 - isobutyl - 5 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) barbituric acid ( about 24 % of the dose ) , 5 - allyl - 5 ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 4 . 8 % of the dose ) , products with the barbituric acid ring hydrolyzed with excretion of urea ( about 14 % of the dose ) , as well as unidentified materials .
Of the material excreted in the urine , 32 % is conjugated .
The in vitro plasma binding of butalbital is 45 % over the concentration range of 0 . 5 to 20 mcg / mL .
This falls within the range of plasma protein binding ( 20 % to 45 % ) reported with other barbiturates such as phenobarbital , pentobarbital , and secobarbital sodium .
The plasma - to - blood concentration ratio was almost unity , indicating that there is no preferential distribution of butalbital into either plasma or blood cells .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
AcetaminophenAcetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
CaffeineLike most xanthines , caffeine is rapidly absorbed and distributed in all body tissues and fluids , including the CNS , fetal tissues , and breast milk .
Caffeine is cleared through metabolism and excretion in the urine .
The plasma half - life is about 3 hours .
Hepatic biotransformation prior to excretion , results in about equal amounts of 1 - methylxanthine and 1 - methyluric acid .
Of the 70 % of the dose that is recovered in the urine , only 3 % is unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS AND USAGEButalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of this combination product in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable .
Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
This product is contraindicated under the following conditions : – Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product – Patients with porphyria .
WARNINGSButalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
Consequently , the extended use of this product is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralButalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets should be prescribed with caution in certain special - risk patients , such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , or acute abdominal conditions .
Information for PatientsThis product may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking this product .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and should be avoided .
Butalbital may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Laboratory TestsIn patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug InteractionsThe CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
Butalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets may enhance the effects of : other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide , sedative - hypnotics , or other CNS depressants , causing increased CNS depression Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsAcetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityNo adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen or butalbital have a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this combination product .
It is also not known whether butalbital , acetaminophen and caffeine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only when clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic EffectsWithdrawal seizures were reported in a two - day - old male infant whose mother had taken a butalbital - containing drug during the last two months of pregnancy .
Butalbital was found in the infant ' s serum .
The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg / kg , which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms .
Nursing MothersCaffeine , barbiturates and acetaminophen are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from butalbital , acetaminophen and caffeine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of Butalbital , Acetaminophen , and Caffeine Tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or renal drug therapy .
Butalbital is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONSFrequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness , lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and intoxicated feeling .
Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent .
Central Nervous System : headache , shaky feeling , tingling , agitation , fainting , fatigue , heavy eyelids , high energy , hot spells , numbness , sluggishness , seizure .
Mental confusion , excitement , or depression can also occur due to intolerance , particularly in elderly or debilitated patients , or due to overdosage of butalbital .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , hyperhidrosis .
Gastrointestinal : difficulty swallowing , heartburn , flatulence , constipation .
Cardiovascular : tachycardia .
Musculoskeletal : leg pain , muscle fatigue .
Genitourinary : diuresis .
Miscellaneous : pruritus , fever , earache , nasal congestion , tinnitus , euphoria , allergic reactions .
Several cases of dermatological reactions , including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme , have been reported .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of this product .
Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
Acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Caffeine : cardiac stimulation , irritability , tremor , dependence , nephrotoxicity , hyperglycemia Abuse and DependenceButalbitalBarbiturates may be habit - forming : Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1500 mg .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than two - fold .
As this occurs , the margin between an intoxication dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of these drugs .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
One method involves initiating treatment at the patient ' s regular dosage level and gradually decreasing the daily dosage as tolerated by the patient .
OVERDOSAGEFollowing an acute overdosage of butalbital , acetaminophen and caffeine , toxicity may result from the barbiturate or the acetaminophen .
Toxicity due to caffeine is less likely , due to the relatively small amounts in this formulation .
Signs and SymptomsToxicity from barbiturate poisoning includes drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; and hypovolemic shock .
In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necroses , hypoglycemic coma and thrombocytopenia may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 grams , or fatalities with less than 15 grams .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , and delirium , tachycardia and extrasystoles .
TreatmentA single or multiple overdose with this combination product is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically , or with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert ( adequate pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes ) .
Oral activated charcoal ( 1 g / kg ) should follow gastric emptying .
The first dose should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic .
If repeated doses are used , the cathartic might be included with alternate doses as required .
Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should respond to fluids .
Pressors should be avoided .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and , when necessary , to provide assisted respiration .
If renal function is normal , forced diuresis may aid in the elimination of the barbiturate .
Alkalinization of the urine increases renal excretion of some barbiturates , especially phenobarbital .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , or preferably hemodialysis may be considered .
If hypoprothrombinemia occurs due to acetaminophen overdose , vitamin K should be administered intravenously .
If the dose of acetaminophen may have exceeded 140 mg / kg , acetylcysteine should be administered as early as possible .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained , since levels four or more hours following ingestion help predict acetaminophen toxicity .
Do not await acetaminophen assay results before initiating treatment .
Hepatic enzymes should be obtained initially , and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Methemoglobinemia over 30 % should be treated with methylene blue by slow intravenous administration .
Toxic Doses ( for adults ) Butalbital : toxic dose 1 g ( 20 tablets ) Acetaminophen : toxic dose 10 g ( 20 tablets ) Caffeine : toxic dose 1 g ( 25 tablets ) In all cases of suspected overdosage , call your Regional Poison Control Center to obtain the most up - to - date information about the treatment of overdosage .
Telephone numbers of certified Regional Poison Control Centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ® * DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONOne tablet every 4 hours .
Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 tablets .
Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence .
Butalbital , Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets , USP Containing butalbital 50 mg , acetaminophen 500 mg and caffeine 40 mg , are white , caplet - shaped tablets , bisected , debossed " 23 / 57 " on one side , and debossed " V " on the reverse side .
Bottles of 10 , 100 , 500 and 1000 .
StorageStore at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
* Trademark of Medical Economics Company , Inc .
Manufactured for : QUALITEST PHARMACEUTICALS Huntsville , AL 35811 8181519 R3 / 08 - R1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] BU - AP - CA 50 - 500 - 40 MG LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
