[ 1 Eliminate ] Creme Rinse Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each fluid ounce ) Permethrin 280 mg ( 1 % ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses treats head lice Warnings For external use only Do not use • on children under 2 months of age • near the eyes • inside the nose , ear , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you are • allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic episode .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into the eyes , immediately flush with large amounts of water • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Important : Read warnings before use • Adults and children 2 months old and older Inspect • all household members should be checked by another person for lice and / or nits ( eggs • use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and / or nits ( eggs ) • use a tool , such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils to lift and part the hair • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • small sections of hair ( 1 - 2 inches wide ) should be examined at a time • unlike dandruff , nits stick to the hair .
Dandruff should move when lightly touched , • if either lice or nits ( or eggs ) are found , treat with Nix ® Creme Rinse Treat • wash hair with a shampoo without conditioner .
Do not use a shampoo that contains a conditioner or a conditioner alone since this may decrease the activity of Nix ® .
Rinse with water .
• towel dry hair so it is damp but not wet • shake the bottle of Nix ® well • completely saturate the hair and scalp with Nix ® .
Begin to apply Nix ® behind the ears and at the back of the neck .
• keep Nix ® out of the eyes .
Protect the eyes with a washcloth or towel .
• leave Nix ® on the hair for 10 minutes , but no longer • rinse with warm water • towel dry hair and comb out tangles • if live lice are seen seven days or more after the first treatment , a second treatment should be given Remove Lice / Nits • remove nits by combing the hair with the special small tooth comb provided .
Remaining nits may be removed by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) , or cutting the nits out .
• use the nit comb provided and make sure the hair remains slightly damp while removing nits • if the hair dries during combing , dampen it slightly with water • part the hair into 4 sections .
Work on one section at a time .
Longer hair may take more time ( 1 - 2 hours ) .
• start at the top of the head on the section you have picked • with one hand , lift a 1 - 2 inch wide strand of hair .
Get the teeth of the comb as close to the scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from the scalp to the end of the hair .
• use clips to pin back each strand of hair after you have combed out the nits • clean the comb completely as you go .
Wipe the nits from the comb with a tissue and throw away the tissue in a sealed plastic bag to prevent the lice from coming back .
• after combing , recheck the entire head for nits and repeat combing if necessary • check the affected head daily to remove any nits that you might have missed Other information • read all the directions in the Consumer Information Insert and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients balsam canada , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , FD & C yellow no . 6 , fragrance , hydrolyzed animal protein , hydroxyethylcellulose , polyoxyethylene 10 cetyl ether , propylene glycol , stearalkonium chloride , water , isopropyl alcohol , methylparaben , propylparaben Questions ?
1 - 888 - 542 - 3546 [ 2 Remove ] Combing Gel & Comb Product Facts Uses To detangle and comb the hair Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • use after shampooing with lice killing creme rinse • towel dry hair • apply combining gel until all the hair and scalp is thoroughly wet with product • make sure product covers the area behind the ears and at the nape of the neck where there are more likely to be nits • part hair into sections and clip back • use the enclosed special - toothed comb to comb out dead lice and nits • comb out one section at a time • it is extremely important to comb out dead lice and nits • if hair begins to dry , reapply additional product • when you finish combing , rinse hair thoroughly with warm water .
Other Information • Nix Combing Gel does not kill lice and nits • Pesticide free • Keep carton for full information and warnings .
Read all warnings and directions before use .
• Visit our website at nixlice . com Ingredients water , propylene glycol , glycerin , polyquaternium - 10 , diazolidinyl urea , hydroxyethylcellulose , sodium citrate dihydrate , citric acid , methylparaben , propylparaben , disodium EDTA [ 3 Control ] Nix ® Lice Control Spray Active ingredient : PERMETHRIN 0 . 25 % ( CAS # 52645 - 53 - 1 ) Other ingredients : 99 . 75 % 100 . 00 % NOT FOR USE ON HUMANS .
READ ENTIRE LABEL BEFORE EACH USE .
SHAKE BOTTLE WELL BEFORE USING .
Precautionary Statements ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS This product is extremely toxic to fish and aquatic organisms .
To protect the environment , do not allow pesticide to enter or run off into storm drains , drainage ditches , gutters or surface waters .
Directions For Use It is a violation of Federal law to use this product in a manner inconsistent with its labeling .
For Use in Non - food Areas of Homes Indoor Application Surface Spraying : To kill lice and louse eggs , spray in an inconspicuous area to test for possible staining or discoloration .
Inspect again after drying , then proceed to spray entire area to be treated .
Spray from a distance of 8 to 10 inches .
Treat only those garments and parts of bedding , including mattresses and furniture , that cannot be either laundered or dry cleaned .
Allow all treated articles to dry thoroughly before use .
To control bedbugs : Spray mattresses lightly , particularly around tufts and seams .
Take beds apart and spray in all joints .
Allow all sprayed articles to dry thoroughly before use .
• Do not use in food / feed areas of food / feed handling establishments , restaurants or other areas where food / feed is commercially prepared or processed .
Do not use in serving areas while food is exposed or facility is in operation .
Serving areas are areas where prepared foods are served such as dining rooms , but excluding areas where foods may be prepared or held .
• In the home , cover all food handling surfaces , cover or remove all food and cooking utensils or wash thoroughly after treatment .
• Application is prohibited directly into sewers or drains , or into any area like a gutter where drainage to sewers , storms drains , water bodies , or aquatic habitat can occur .
Do not allow the product to enter any drain during or after application .
Storage and Disposal Do not contaminate water , food or feed by storing or disposal .
Pesticide Storage and Spill Procedures : Keep from freezing .
Store upright at room temperature .
Avoid exposure to extreme temperatures .
In case of spill or leakage , soak up with an absorbent material such as sand , sawdust , earth , fuller ' s earth , etc .
Dispose of with chemical waste .
Pesticide Disposal : If partly filled – Call your local solid waste agency for disposal instructions .
Never place unused product down any indoor or outdoor drain .
Container Disposal : If empty – Nonrefillable container .
Do not reuse or refill this container .
Place in trash or offer for recycling if available .
EPA REG .
NO . 64321 - 1 - 75406 EPA EST .
NO . 91705 - NJ - 001 Dist .
by INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals Corp .
660 White Plains Road , Tarrytown , NY 10591 , a Prestige Brands Company © 2017 Trade dress is owned by INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals Corp .
All rights reserved .
RID ® is a registered trademark of Bayer Healthcare , LLC .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nix ® Complete Lice Treatment Kit Permethrin Creme Rinse ( 1 % ) Creme Rinse 2 Bottles 2 fl oz ( 59 mL ) EACH , Combing Gel 2 fl oz ( 59 mL ) , Lice Comb , Lice Control Spray 5 fl oz ( 147 . 86 mL ) nixlice . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
