Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 10 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Oxybenzone 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients dimethicone , dimethicone crosspolymer , C30 - 45 alkyldimethylsilyl polypropylsilsesquioxane , isododecane , cetyl methicone , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , beeswax , silica , glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , BHT , water , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , talc .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel meijerTM Wonderblur Immediate Skin Smoothing Finishing Cream Broad Spectrum SPF30 Sunscreen * Compare to L ' Oreal ® Revitalift ® Miracle Blur Instant Skin Smoother Finishing Cream Broad Spectrum SPF30 Sunscreen ingredients 1 . 18 FL OZ ( 35 mL ) DIST BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC . 2929 WALKER AVE , NW GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Manufactured in Israel 2D472 6 E C1 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by L ' Oreal ® , owner of the registered trademark Revitalift ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
