Active Ingredients Octinoxate , 7 . 5 % ( UVB sunscreen ) , Zinc oxide , 10 . 0 % ( UVA / UVB sunscreen ) Warnings For external use only , not to be swallowed .
Avoid contact with eye .
Discontinue if signs of irritation or rash appear .
Purpose For Sun protection for surfaces of skin , face , arm and hand .
SPF - 15 provides the face and body skin with effective protection against harmful UVA and UVB rays .
Use daily over moisture cream to help prevent premature aging and wrinkling due to prolonged exposure to the sun , reapply after swimming or excessive exercise .
Paraben and PABA free .
Fairly water resistant .
Not tested on animals .
Made in the USA specifically for professional dermatology and esthetic practices .
Directions for Use Home Care : Apply SPF 30 liberally to face and body at least ten minutes before sun exposure or two minutes before applying makeup .
Reapply after swimming or excessive perspiration .
As part of effective age - fighting program , apply every morning throughout the year .
Because SPF 30 is a blend of UV absorbing and reflecting sunscreens , it may be applied over or under moisturizer .
Facial Procedure : SPF 30 is recommended as the finishing product at the end of the facial procedure for any skin type .
It may be applied over finishing cream or moisturizer .
It should not be rubbed in completely , but left on the skin until it becomes transparent .
Inactive Ingredients Water , ethylhexyl palmitate , cyclomethicone , laurylmethicone , butylene glycol , tocopheryl acetate , sodium chloride , kukui ( aleurites moluccana ) seed oil ( lipid - rich plant oil ) , green tea ( camellia oleifera ) seed extract , aloe vera ( aloe barbadensis ) leaf extract , tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate ( time - released age - fighting vitamin C ) , allantoin , sodium PCA ( hydrating ) , disodium EDTA , ethylhexylglycerin , methylisothiazolinone , fragrance ( synthetic citrus ) .
Questions ?
( 805 ) 388 - 8581 Keep out of the reach of children Keep Out of the reach of children .
Use on children under six months of age only with the advice of a physician .
Principal Panel Display MM1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
