Active ingredients ( in each tablet ) Calcium carbonate 1000 mg Simethicone 60 mg Purpose Antacid Antigas Uses relieves : • • acid indigestion • • heartburn • • sour stomach • • upset stomach due to these symptoms • • bloating and pressure commonly referred to as gas Warnings Do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • kidney stones • • a calcium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug .
Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs .
When using this product at maximum dose , constipation may occur .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and older : chew 1 to 2 tablets as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor • • do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Other information • • each tablet contains : calcium 400 mg • • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • Keep tightly closed and dry • • Avoid freezing • • do not use if printed inner seal is broken or missing Inactive ingredients adipic acid , dextrose , flavors , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , red 40 lake , , starch , sucralose , yellow 6 lake , yellow 10 lake Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] CVS Health ™ * Compare to the active ingredients in Maalox ® .
NDC : 59779 - 636 - 90 MAXIMUM STRENGTH Antacid & Anti - Gas Fast relief of : • • Heartburn • • Acid indigestion • • Pressure & bloating • Assorted Fruit 90 CHEWABLE TABLETS Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2015 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS CVS ® Quality Money Back Guarantee * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Novartis Consumer Health , Inc . , the distributor of Maalox ® Advanced Maximum Strength .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
