1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sincalide for Injection is indicated in adults to : • stimulate gallbladder contraction , as may be assessed by various methods of diagnostic imaging , or to obtain by duodenal aspiration a sample of concentrated bile for analysis of cholesterol , bile salts , phospholipids , and crystals ; • stimulate pancreatic secretion in combination with secretin prior to obtaining a duodenal aspirate for analysis of enzyme activity , composition , and cytology ; • accelerate the transit of a barium meal through the small bowel , thereby decreasing the time and extent of radiation associated with fluoroscopy and x - ray examination of the intestinal tract .
Sincalide for Injection is a cholecystokinin ( CCK ) analog indicated in adults to : • stimulate gallbladder contraction , as may be assessed by various methods of diagnostic imaging , or to obtain by duodenal aspiration a sample of concentrated bile for analysis of cholesterol , bile salts , phospholipids , and crystals .
( 1 ) • stimulate pancreatic secretion in combination with secretin prior to obtaining a duodenal aspirate for analysis of enzyme activity , composition , and cytology .
( 1 ) • accelerate the transit of a barium meal through the small bowel , thereby decreasing the time and extent of radiation associated with fluoroscopy and x - ray examination of the intestinal tract .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosage and Administration by Indication : To Stimulate Contraction of the Gallbladder • 0 . 02 mcg / kg as a single dose over 30 to 60 seconds via intravenous injection .
If satisfactory contraction does not occur in 15 minutes , administer a dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds .
( 2 . 1 ) • Alternatively consider an intravenous infusion to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions : 0 . 12 mcg / kg diluted in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 50 minutes at a rate of 2 mL per minute .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) To Stimulate Pancreatic Secretion in Combination with Secretin • 30 minutes after initiation of secretin for injection , administer 0 . 02 mcg / kg diluted in 30 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 30 minutes at a rate of 1 mL per minute .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) To Accelerate Transit of a Barium Meal Through the Small Intestine : • After the barium meal is beyond the proximal jejunum , administer 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds via intravenous injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • If satisfactory transit of the barium meal has not occurred in 30 minutes , administer a second dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds .
( 2 . 1 ) • Alternatively consider an intravenous infusion to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions : 0 . 12 mcg / kg diluted in 100 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 30 minutes .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage and Administration Instructions The recommended dosage and administration of Sincalide for Injection by indication is shown in Table 1 .
For preparation instructions see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) .
Table 1 : Recommended Adult Dosage and Administration of Sincalide for Injection by Treatment IndicationTo stimulate contraction of the gallbladder Sincalide for Injection 0 . 02 mcg / kg as a single dose over 30 to 60 seconds via intravenous injection .
If satisfactory contraction does not occur in 15 minutes , administer a dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds .
Alternatively , Consider an Intravenous Infusion to Reduce Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] : 0 . 12 mcg / kg diluted in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 50 minutes at a rate of 2 mL per minute To stimulate pancreatic secretion in combination with secretin for injection Secretin for Injection : 0 . 25 units / kg as intravenous infusion over 60 minutes Sincalide for Injection : 30 minutes after initiation of secretin infusion , administer Sincalide for Injection 0 . 02 mcg / kg diluted in 30 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 30 minutes at a rate of 1 mL per minute .
To accelerate the transit of a barium meal through the small intestine After the barium meal is beyond the proximal jejunum , administer Sincalide for Injection 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds via intravenous injection .
If satisfactory transit of the barium meal has not occurred in 30 minutes , administer a second dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg over 30 to 60 seconds .
Alternatively , Consider an Intravenous Infusion to Reduce Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] : 0 . 12 mcg / kg diluted in 100 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP and infused over 30 minutes .
2 . 2 Preparation Instructions For Intravenous Injection • Reconstitute Sincalide for Injection aseptically by adding 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection USP to the vial .
• Inspect the reconstituted solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration after reconstitution and prior to administration .
• Withdraw the prescribed dose of the reconstituted solution from the vial and administer as an intravenous injection over 30 to 60 seconds , as shown in Table 1 .
Discard the unused portion .
• Store the reconstituted solution at room temperature .
Discard after 8 hours .
• For single use only ; discard unused portion .
For Intravenous Infusion • Reconstitute Sincalide for Injection aseptically by adding 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection USP to the vial .
• After reconstitution , withdraw the prescribed dose of the solution from the vial .
Discard unused portion .
• Dilute the reconstituted solution in 30 mL or 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP , depending on the indication , as described in Table 1 .
• Inspect the Sincalide solutions visually for particulate matter and discoloration after reconstitution , dilution and prior to administration .
• Store the diluted solution at room temperature .
Discard after 1 hour 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 5 mcg of sincalide as a lyophilized white to off - white cake or powder for reconstitution in a single - dose vial .
For injection : 5 mcg of sincalide as a lyophilized cake or powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sincalide for Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to sincalide .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• intestinal obstruction .
• History of hypersensitivity to sincalide .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Intestinal obstruction .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylaxis , Anaphylactic Shock and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions : May occur during or soon after administration .
If symptoms occur , discontinue the drug .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Evacuation of Gallstones : Stimulation of gallbladder contraction in patients with small gallbladder stones could lead to the evacuation of the stones from the gallbladder , resulting in their lodging in the cystic duct or in the common bile duct .
( 5 . 2 ) • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions with Intravenous Injection : Administration as an intravenous injection may cause transient nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or cramping , dizziness or flushing .
To reduce the risk of adverse reactions when used to simulate contraction of the gallbladder or accelerate transit of a barium meal through the small intestine , administer as an intravenous infusion over 50 or 30 minutes , respectively .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) • Preterm Labor or Spontaneous Abortion : Advise pregnant women of the potential risk for preterm labor and spontaneous abortion .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis , Anaphylactic Shock and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions In postmarketing experience , anaphylaxis , anaphylactic shock and other serious hypersensitivity reactions have been reported during and within one hour following administration of sincalide [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Due to the potential for anaphylaxis , appropriate medical support should be readily available when Sincalide for Injection is administered .
If anaphylaxis or other hypersensitivity reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Observe patients closely during and after the infusion .
Do not reinitiate Sincalide for Injection in patients who have experienced symptoms of hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Evacuation of Gallstones Stimulation of gallbladder contraction in patients with small gallbladder stones could lead to the evacuation of the stones from the gallbladder , resulting in their lodging in the cystic duct or in the common bile duct .
5 . 3 Adverse Reactions with Intravenous Injection Administration of Sincalide for Injection as an intravenous injection may cause adverse reactions such as nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or cramping , dizziness , and flushing [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
These reactions are generally transient .
To reduce the risk of adverse reactions with intravenous injection when used to simulate contraction of the gallbladder or accelerate transit of a barium meal through the small intestine , administer Sincalide for Injection as an intravenous infusion over 50 or 30 minutes , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Preterm Labor or Spontaneous Abortion Based on limited human data and mechanism of action , advise pregnant patients that Sincalide for Injection may cause preterm labor or spontaneous abortion [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of sincalide were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most frequent adverse reactions ( 20 % or greater ) are gastrointestinal : abdominal discomfort or pain , and nausea ; these may not necessarily indicate an abnormality of the biliary tract unless there is other clinical or radiologic evidence of disease .
Less common adverse reactions include : Hypersensitivityreactions : anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , hypotension , throat tightness , bradycardia , shortness of breath , nausea , abdominal cramping , diaphoresis , hives , rash , itching ; and numbness of face , lips and eyes [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Neurological reactions : seizures , headache .
Vasovagal reactions : dizziness , loss of consciousness , nausea , diaphoresis , syncope and hypotension ( generally self - limiting ) .
Other : nausea , vomiting , flushing , hypertension , urge to defecate , diarrhea , sneezing .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are : abdominal discomfort or pain , and nausea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MAIA Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 888 - 9064 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Affect Gallbladder Motility or Contractile Response : May interfere with response to sincalide .
Consider discontinuing these drugs prior to administration of Sincalide for Injection , when used to stimulate contraction of the gallbladder .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Affect Gallbladder Motility or Contractile Response Drugs that may stimulate or inhibit gallbladder motility or contractile response , may interfere with the response to sincalide .
Consider discontinuing these drugs prior to administration of Sincalide for Injection , when used to simulate contraction of the gallbladder .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on limited human data and mechanism of action , Sincalide for Injection may cause preterm labor or spontaneous abortion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Limited available data with Sincalide for Injection are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
In animal embryo - fetal development studies in which sincalide was administered to hamsters and rats during the period of organogenesis , no effects were seen at doses comparable to the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / kg basis .
However , in a prenatal development study in which rats were administered sincalide during organogenesis through parturition , decreased weight gain and developmental delays were observed at a dose 122 times higher than the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data There were no effects on embryo - fetal development in hamsters when sincalide was administered subcutaneously at 250 or 750 ng / kg during organogenesis ( Gestation Days 7 to 13 ) at doses up to 0 . 8 times the maximum recommended dose of 120 ng / kg on a body surface area basis .
No effects on embryo - fetal development were observed in Sprague - Dawley rats at subcutaneous doses of 250 , 450 , or 750 ng / kg from Gestation Days 6 to16 , representing 1 . 0 time the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis .
In a separate study at a higher dose of 90 mcg / kg administered subcutaneously to CFY rats from Gestation Day 10 through parturition ( representing 122 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) , offspring showed decreased growth , behavioral changes , and developmental delays .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data regarding the presence of sincalide in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Sincalide for Injection and any potential adverse effect on the breastfed infant from Sincalide for Injection or from the underlying condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Animal Data Direct injection of sincalide in neonatal rats reduced milk consumption with the youngest rats exhibiting the greatest sensitivity to this effect .
Although safety margins relative to maternal doses cannot be calculated since rat pups were injected directly , the safety margin in the youngest rat pups was less than 0 . 1 on a body surface area bases compared to the maximum adult clinical dose .
At higher doses administered subcutaneously in neonatal rats , transient behavioral changes and small effects on physical developmental milestones such as ear opening , eye opening , and incisor appearance were observed ( at doses 10 to 200 - fold higher than the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of sincalide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose , symptoms related to vagal stimulation , such as gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , hypotension with dizziness or fainting may occur .
Overdosage symptoms should be treated symptomatically and should be of short duration .
A single bolus intravenous injection of 0 . 05 mcg / kg ( approximately 2 to 3 times the human dose of 0 . 02 mcg / kg ) , sincalide caused hypotension and bradycardia in dogs .
In addition , higher doses injected intravenously once or repeatedly in dogs caused syncope and ECG changes ( approximately 5 times the human dose of 0 . 02 mcg / kg ) .
These effects were attributed to sincalide - induced vagal stimulation in that all were prevented by pretreatment with atropine or bilateral vagotomy .
11 DESCRIPTION Sincalide for Injection is a cholecystopancreatic - gastrointestinal hormone for parenteral administration .
The agent is a synthetically - prepared C - terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin .
Each single - dose vial of sincalide provides a sterile nonpyrogenic lyophilized white to off - white cake or powder consisting of 5 mcg sincalide with 30 mg arginine hydrochloride , 15 mg lysine hydrochloride , 170 mg mannitol , 4 mg methionine , 2 mg pentetic acid , and 0 . 04 mg sodium metabisulfite .
The pH is adjusted to 6 . 5 to 7 . 5 with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide prior to lyophilization .
Sincalide is designated chemically as L - α - aspartyl - O - sulfo - L - tyrosyl - L - methionylglycyl - L - tryptophyl - L - methionyl - L - α - aspartyl - L - phenylalaninamide .
Graphic formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action When injected intravenously , Sincalide stimulates gallbladder contraction and reduction in size .
The evacuation of bile that results is similar to that which occurs physiologically in response to endogenous cholecystokinin .
Sincalide also stimulates pancreatic secretion and intestinal motility causing pyloric contraction and slows gastric emptying .
Concurrent administration of sincalide with secretin increases both the volume of pancreatic secretion and the output of bicarbonate and enzymes .
This combined effect of secretin and sincalide permits the assessment of specific pancreatic function through measurement and analysis of the duodenal aspirate .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following an intravenous ( bolus ) injection of 0 . 02 mcg / kg sincalide , maximal contraction of the gallbladder occurred in 5 to 15 minutes .
Sincalide reduced gallbladder radiographic size by at least 40 % , which is generally considered satisfactory contraction .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential , or possible impairment of fertility in males or females .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sincalide for Injection is supplied as 5 mcg of sincalide as a lyophilized white to off - white cake or powder for reconstitution in a single - dose vial ; in packages of 10 vials ( NDC 70511 - 131 - 05 ) .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Anaphylaxis , Anaphylactic Shock and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock have been reported during or following administration of Sincalide for Injection .
Advise patients to report immediately to a healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Advise patients that Sincalide for Injection may cause transient gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk for preterm labor and spontaneous abortion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for : MAIA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
707 State Road , Suite # 104 Princeton , NJ 08540 USA Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited Hyderabad , 500 043 , India Manufactured in India Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70511 - 131 - 05 Sincalide for Injection 5 mcg / vial For Intravenous Use Vial contains a sterile , lyophilized powder providing 5 mcg sincalide ( see insert for inactive ingredients ) ; pH adjusted to 6 . 5 to 7 . 5 with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information Single - Dose Vial .
Discard Unused Portion .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Manufactured for MAIA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
