Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Octinoxate 5 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 62 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions for suncreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Cyclopentasiloxane , Nylon 6 / 12 , Alcohol denat . , Glycerin , Cyclohexasiloxane , Phenyl trimethicone , Disteardimonium hectorite , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Magnesium sulfate , PEG / PPG - 19 / 19 dimethicone , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Tocopheryl acetate , Polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , Hexyl laurate , Propylene carbonate , Salicylic acid , Aluminum hydroxide , Potassium hydroxide , Methylparaben , Ethylparaben , Stearic acid , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Tetrasodium EDTA , Retinyl palmitate , Isopropyl palmitate , Lecithin , BHT , Tocopherol , , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Description Beautifully Matte Foundation Normal Oily Coverage Medium / Full All day velvet matte perfection Achieve the appearance of flawless matte skin with a velvety soft finish and no powdery flatness .
Blemishes and flaws are concealed and pores appear minimised , leaving you with even - toned skin that looks perfectly smooth and velvety soft all day .
For best results : dot a little foundation where you need it most , usually your cheeks , nose and chin .
Blend into the skin with a foundation brush in a small circular motion , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in France www . boots . com active ingredients No7 Beautifully Matte Foundation Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz .
Active ingredients : Octinoxate 5 . 0 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 62 % Warnings Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Achieve the appearance of flawless matte skin with a velvety soft finish and no powdery flatness .
Oil free , this foundation , containing fine oil - absorbing powders , minimises the need for touch ups by controlling shine all day long .
Developed to glide effortlessly onto the skin and instantly transform the appearance of your complexion .
Blemishes and flaws are concealed and pores appear minimised , leaving you with even - toned skin that looks perfectly smooth and velvety soft all day .
With Broad Specrtrum SPF 15 to help protect against the ageing effects of the sun , Beautifully Matte foundation helps you to protect the future of your complexion as well as perfecting its appearance today .
Non pore blocking For best results : Dot a little foundation where you need it most , usually your cheeks , nose and chin .
Blend into the skin with a foundation brush in a small circular motion , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Hypo - allergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our foundation products are hypo - allergenic so they are kind to even the most sensitive skin .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in France www . boots . com Carton carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
