Active ingredients Homosalate , 12 . 0 % Octinoxate , 7 . 5 % Octocrylene , 2 . 0 % Zinc Oxide , 3 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , niacinamide , behentrimonium methosulfate , cetyl alcohol , butylene glycol , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , boron nitride , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , ceramide 3 , ceramide 6 II , ceramide 1 , phytosphingosine , cholesterol , sodium lauroyl lactylate , carbomer , xanthan gum , dimethicone , disodium EDTA , hyaluronic acid .
Questions Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 543 - 5125 Principal Display Panel meijer ™ Compare to CeraVe ® AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion ingredients * AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Sunscreen • • moisturize • • restore • • maintain Ceramides help maintain the skin ’ s natural barrier UVA / UVB Protection Non - comedogenic 3 FLOZ ( 89 mL ) Meijer ™ AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion with SPF 30 Sunscreen is an ideal moisturizer for daily use .
This special formulated lotion for your face , helps restore and maintain the skin ’ s natural protective barrier , while helping to protect against the sun ’ s damaging rays .
Our unique formula has ceramides , which are essential ingredients to help maintain a healthy skin barrier , hyaluronic acid to help moisturize skin , and niacinamide which may help reduce redness .
The quick absorbing , non - greasy lotion can be worn under makeup .
Use daily to moisturize and nourish your face .
Meijer ™ AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Sunscreen helps repair damaged skin to restore and maintain the skin ’ s natural barrier .
Directions for Use : Apply AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion liberally to face and neck daily .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 Manufactured in Israel * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Coria Laboratories Ltd . , owner of the registered trademark CeraVe ® .
8D121 6 E C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
