FOR TOPICAL USE ON THE FACE .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION RENOVA ® ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % contains the active ingredient tretinoin in a cream base .
Tretinoin is a yellow to light - orange crystalline powder having a characteristic floral odor .
Tretinoin is soluble in dimethylsulfoxide , slightly soluble in polyethylene glycol 400 , octanol , and 100 % ethanol .
It is practically insoluble in water and mineral oil , and it is insoluble in glycerin .
The chemical name for tretinoin is ( all - E ) - 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 1 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ) - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - nonatetraenoic acid .
Tretinoin is also referred to as all - trans - retinoic acid and has a molecular weight of 300 . 44 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tretinoin is available as RENOVA at a concentration of 0 . 02 % w / w in an oil - in - water emulsion formulation consisting of benzyl alcohol , butylated hydroxytoluene , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cetyl alcohol , edetate disodium , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , stearyl alcohol , steareth 2 , steareth 20 , and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Tretinoin is an endogenous retinoid metabolite of Vitamin A that binds to intracellular receptors in the cytosol and nucleus , but cutaneous levels of tretinoin in excess of physiologic concentrations occur following application of a tretinoin - containing topical drug product .
Although tretinoin activates three members of the retinoic acid ( RAR ) nuclear receptors ( RARα , RARβ , and RARγ ) which may act to modify gene expression , subsequent protein synthesis , and epithelial cell growth and differentiation , it has not been established whether the clinical effects of tretinoin are mediated through activation of retinoic acid receptors , other mechanisms such as irritation , or both .
The effect of tretinoin on skin with chronic photodamage has not been evaluated in animal studies .
When hairless albino mice were treated topically with tretinoin shortly after a period of UVB irradiation , new collagen formation was demonstrated only in photodamaged skin .
However , in human skin treated topically , adequate data have not been provided to demonstrate any increase in desmosine , hydroxyproline , or elastin mRNA .
Application of 0 . 1 % tretinoin cream to photodamaged human forearm skin was associated with an increase in antibody staining for procollagen I propeptide .
No correlation was made between procollagen I propeptide staining with collagen I levels or with observed clinical effects .
Thus , the relationships between the increased collagen in rodents , increased procollagen I propeptide in humans , and the clinical effects of tretinoin have not yet been clearly defined .
Tretinoin was shown to enhance UV - stimulated melanogenesis in pigmented mice .
Generalized amyloid deposition in the basal layer of tretinoin - treated skin was noted in a 2 - year mouse study .
In a different study , hyalinization at tretinoin - treated skin sites was noted at doses beginning at 0 . 25 mg / kg in CD - 1 mice .
The transdermal absorption of tretinoin from various topical formulations ranged from 1 % to 31 % of applied dose , depending on whether it was applied to healthy skin or dermatitic skin .
No percutaneous absorption study was conducted with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % in human volunteers .
When percutaneous absorption of the oil - in - water emulsion formulation at 0 . 05 % concentration was assessed in healthy male subjects with radiolabeled cream after a single application ( n = 7 ) , as well as after repeated daily applications ( n = 7 ) for 28 days , the absorption of tretinoin was less than 2 % and the extent of bioavailability was less after repeated application .
No significant difference in endogenous concentrations of tretinoin was observed between single and repeated daily applications .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( To understand fully the indication for this product , please read the entire INDICATIONS AND USAGE section of the labeling . )
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is indicated as an adjunctive agent ( see second bullet point below ) for use in the mitigation ( palliation ) of fine facial wrinkles in patients who use comprehensive skin care and sunlight avoidance programs .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % DOES NOT ELIMINATE WRINKLES , REPAIR SUN - DAMAGED SKIN , REVERSE PHOTOAGING , or RESTORE MORE YOUTHFUL or YOUNGER SKIN .
In double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical studies , many patients in the vehicle group achieved desired palliative effects on fine wrinkling of facial skin with the use of comprehensive skin care and sunlight avoidance programs including sunscreens , protective clothing , and non - prescription emollient creams .
• • RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % has NOT DEMONSTRATED A MITIGATING EFFECT on significant signs of chronic sunlight exposure such as coarse or deep wrinkling , tactile roughness , mottled hyperpigmentation , lentigines , telangiectasia , skin laxity , keratinocytic atypia , melanocytic atypia , or dermal elastosis .
• • RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be used under medical supervision as an adjunct to a comprehensive skin care and sunlight avoidance program that includes the use of effective sunscreens ( minimum SPF of 15 ) and protective clothing .
• • Patients with visible actinic keratosis and patients with a history of skin cancer were excluded from clinical trials of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
Thus the effectiveness and safety of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % in these populations are not known at this time .
• • Neither the safety nor the effectiveness of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % for the prevention or treatment of actinic keratoses or skin neoplasms has been established .
• • Neither the safety nor the efficacy of using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % daily for greater than 52 weeks has been established , and daily use beyond 52 weeks has not been systematically and histologically investigated in adequate and well - controlled trials ( see WARNINGS ) .
Clinical Trials Four adequate and well - controlled multi - center trials and one single - center randomized , controlled trial were conducted involving a total of 324 evaluable patients treated with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % and 332 evaluable patients treated with the vehicle cream on the face for 24 weeks with a comprehensive skin care and sun avoidance program , to assess the effects on fine and coarse wrinkling , mottled hyperpigmentation , tactile skin roughness , and laxity .
Patients were evaluated at baseline on a 10 - unit scale and changes from that baseline rating were categorized as follows : Worsening : Increase of 1 unit or more .
No improvement : No change .
Minimal improvement : Reduction of 1 unit .
Mild improvement : Reduction of 2 units .
Moderate improvement : Reduction of 3 units or more .
In these trials , the fine and coarse wrinkling , mottled hyperpigmentation , tactile roughness , and laxity of the facial skin were thought to be caused by multiple factors which included intrinsic aging or environmental factors , such as chronic sunlight exposure .
Two of the five trials provided adequate demonstration of efficacy for mitigation of fine facial wrinkling .
No two of the five trials adequately demonstrated efficacy for mitigation of coarse wrinkling , mottled hyperpigmentation , tactile skin roughness , and laxity .
Data for fine wrinkling ( the indication for which RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % demonstrated efficacy ) from all five trials ( four studies in lightly pigmented subjects with Fitzpatrick Skin Types I - III and one study in darkly pigmented subjects with Fitzpatrick Skin Types IV - VI ) is provided below : FINE WRINKLING IN LIGHTLY PIGMENTED SUBJECTS Subjects Using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % + CSP * ( N = 279 ) Vehicle + CSP * ( N = 280 ) A single - center study ( N = 107 ) in darkly pigmented , mostly African - American , subjects with Fitzpatrick Skin Types IV - VI demonstrated minimal or mild improvement in fine facial wrinkling in 43 % of patients using Vehicle + CSP compared to 29 % of subjects using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % + CSP * .
Although fewer darkly pigmented subjects improved with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % than with vehicle , these findings may reflect the small size of this study .
* CSP – Comprehensive skin protection and sunlight avoidance programs including use of sunscreens , protective clothing , and non - prescription emollient creams .
Worsened 1 % 3 % No Change 40 % 58 % Minimal Improvement 35 % 27 % Mild Improvement 15 % 9 % Moderate Improvement 10 % 3 % Self - assessment of fine wrinkles after 24 weeks of treatment with either RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % or Vehicle from the four studies in lightly pigmented patients showed the following : [ MULTIMEDIA ] No studies have been conducted comparing the facial irritation or efficacy of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 05 % ( older marketed formulation ) .
Patients may lose some of the mitigating effects of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % after 12 weeks of discontinuation of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % from their comprehensive skin care and sunlight avoidance program .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components .
It should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients is noted .
WARNINGS • • RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is a dermal irritant , and the results of continued irritation of the skin for greater than 52 weeks in chronic use with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % are not known .
There is evidence of atypical changes in melanocytes and keratinocytes and of increased dermal elastosis in some patients treated with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 05 % for longer than 48 weeks .
The significance of these findings and their relevance for RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % are unknown .
• • RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should not be administered if the patient is also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers ( e . g . , thiazides , tetracyclines , fluoroquinolones , phenothiazines , sulfonamides ) because of the possibility of augmented phototoxicity .
Exposure to sunlight ( including sunlamps ) should be avoided or minimized during use of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % because of heightened sunburn susceptibility .
Patients should be warned to use sunscreens ( minimum SPF of 15 ) and protective clothing when using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % until fully recovered .
Patients who may have considerable sun exposure , e . g . , due to their occupation , and those patients with inherent sensitivity to sunlight should exercise caution when using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % and follow the precautions outlined in the Patient Package Insert .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be kept out of the eyes , mouth , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
Topical use may cause severe local erythema , pruritus , burning , stinging , and peeling at the site of application .
If the degree of local irritation warrants , patients should be directed to use less medication , decrease the frequency of application , discontinue use temporarily , or discontinue use altogether and consider additional appropriate therapy .
Tretinoin has been reported to cause severe irritation on eczematous skin and should be used only with caution in patients with this condition .
Application of larger amounts of medication than recommended has not been shown to lead to more rapid or better results , and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
PRECAUTIONS General : RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be used only as an adjunct to a comprehensive skin care and sunlight avoidance program ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
If a drug sensitivity , chemical irritation , or a systemic adverse reaction develops , use of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be discontinued .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , may be more irritating to patients using tretinoin - containing products .
Information for Patients : RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is to be used as described below unless otherwise directed by your physician : • 1 .
It is for use on the face .
• 2 .
Avoid contact with the eyes , ears , nostrils , angles of the nose , and mouth .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may cause severe redness , itching , burning , stinging , and peeling if used on these areas .
• 3 .
In the evening , gently wash your face with a mild soap .
Pat skin dry and wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
Apply only a small pearl - sized ( about ¼ inch or 5 mm diameter ) amount of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to your face at one time .
This should be enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
• 4 .
Do not wash your face for at least 1 hour after applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
• 5 .
For best results , you are advised not to apply another skin care product or cosmetic for at least 1 hour after applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
• 6 .
In the morning , apply a moisturizing sunscreen , SPF 15 or greater .
• 7 .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is a serious medication .
Do not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if you are pregnant or attempting to become pregnant .
If you become pregnant while using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , please contact your physician immediately .
• 8 .
Avoid sunlight and other medicines that may increase your sensitivity to sunlight .
• 9 .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % does not remove wrinkles or repair sun - damaged skin .
Please refer to the Patient Package Insert for additional patient information .
Drug Interactions : Concomitant topical medications , medicated or abrasive soaps , shampoos , cleansers , cosmetics with a strong drying effect , products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices or lime , permanent wave solutions , electrolysis , hair depilatories or waxes , and products that may irritate the skin should be used with caution in patients being treated with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % because they may increase irritation with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should not be administered if the patient is also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers ( e . g . , thiazides , tetracyclines , fluoroquinolones , phenothiazines , sulfonamides ) because of the possibility of augmented phototoxicity .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a 91 - week dermal study in which CD - 1 mice were administered 0 . 017 % and 0 . 035 % formulations of tretinoin , cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas and papillomas in the treatment area were observed in some female mice .
These concentrations are near the tretinoin concentration of this clinical formulation ( 0 . 02 % ) .
A dose - related incidence of liver tumors in male mice was observed at those same doses .
The maximum systemic doses associated with the 0 . 017 % and 0 . 035 % formulations are 0 . 5 and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day .
These doses are 10 and 20 times the maximum human systemic dose , when adjusted for total body surface area .
The biological significance of these findings is not clear because they occurred at doses that exceeded the dermal maximally tolerated dose ( MTD ) of tretinoin and because they were within the background natural occurrence rate for these tumors in this strain of mice .
There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential when 0 . 025 mg / kg / day of tretinoin was administered topically to mice ( 0 . 5 times the maximum human systemic dose , adjusted for total body surface area ) .
For purposes of comparisons of the animal exposure to systemic human exposure , the maximum human systemic dose is defined as 1 gram of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % applied daily to a 50 kg person ( 0 . 004 mg tretinoin / kg body weight ) .
Studies in hairless albino mice suggest that concurrent exposure to tretinoin may enhance the tumorigenic potential of carcinogenic doses of UVB and UVA light from a solar simulator .
This effect has been confirmed in a later study in pigmented mice , and dark pigmentation did not overcome the enhancement of photocarcinogenesis by 0 . 05 % tretinoin .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should minimize exposure to sunlight or artificial ultraviolet irradiation sources .
The mutagenic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in the Ames assay and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , both of which were negative .
In dermal Segment I fertility studies in rats , slight ( not statistically significant ) decreases in sperm count and motility were seen at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 20 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) , and slight ( not statistically significant ) increases in the number and percent of nonviable embryos in females treated with 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) and above were observed .
A dermal Segment III study with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % has not been performed in any species .
In oral Segment I and Segment III studies in rats with tretinoin , decreased survival of neonates and growth retardation were observed at doses in excess of 2 mg / kg / day ( 83 times the human topical dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects ORAL tretinoin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats , mice , rabbits , hamsters , and subhuman primates .
It was teratogenic and fetotoxic in Wistar rats when given orally or topically in doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 42 times the maximum human systemic dose normalized for total body surface area ) .
However , variations in teratogenic doses among various strains of rats have been reported .
In the cynomolgus monkey , which , metabolically , is closer to humans for tretinoin than the other species examined , fetal malformations were reported at doses of 10 mg / kg / day or greater , but none were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( 417 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) , although increased skeletal variations were observed at all doses .
A dose - related increase in embryolethality and abortion was reported .
Similar results have also been reported in pigtail macaques .
TOPICAL tretinoin in animal teratogenicity tests has generated equivocal results .
There is evidence for teratogenicity ( shortened or kinked tail ) of topical tretinoin in Wistar rats at doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 42 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
Anomalies ( humerus : short 13 % , bent 6 % , os parietal incompletely ossified 14 % ) have also been reported when 10 mg / kg / day was dermally applied .
There are other reports in New Zealand White rabbits administered doses of greater than 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 17 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) of an increased incidence of domed head and hydrocephaly , typical of retinoid - induced fetal malformations in this species .
In contrast , several well - controlled animal studies have shown that dermally applied tretinoin may be fetotoxic , but not overtly teratogenic , in rats and rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 42 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area in both species ) .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Thirty human cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported during two decades of clinical use of another formulation of topical tretinoin ( Retin - A ® ) .
Although no definite pattern of teratogenicity and no causal association has been established from these cases , five of the reports describe the rare birth defect category holoprosencephaly ( defects associated with incomplete midline development of the forebrain ) .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to the fetus is not known .
Non - teratogenic Effects Dermal tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rabbits when administered 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 42 times the maximum human systemic dose normalized for total body surface area ) .
Oral tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic , resulting in skeletal variations and increased intrauterine death , in rats when administered 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 104 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should not be used during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are excreted in human milk , mitigation of fine facial wrinkles with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may be postponed in nursing mothers until after completion of the nursing period .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
Geriatric Use : In clinical studies with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , patients aged 65 to 71 did not demonstrate a significant difference for improvement in fine wrinkling when compared to patients under the age of 65 .
Patients aged 65 and over may demonstrate slightly more irritation , although the differences were not statistically significant in the clinical studies for RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
Safety and effectiveness of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % in individuals older than 71 years of age have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
In double - blind , vehicle - controlled studies involving 339 patients who applied RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to their faces , adverse reactions associated with the use of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % were limited primarily to the skin .
Almost all patients reported one or more local reactions such as peeling , dry skin , burning , stinging , erythema , and pruritus .
In 32 % of all study patients , skin irritation was reported that was severe , led to temporary discontinuation of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , or led to use of a mild topical corticosteroid .
About 7 % of patients using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , compared to less than 1 % of the control patients , had sufficiently severe local irritation to warrant short - term use of mild topical corticosteroids to alleviate local irritation .
About 4 % of patients had to discontinue use of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % because of adverse reactions .
Approximately 2 % of spontaneous postmarketing adverse event reporting for RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 05 % were for skin hypo - or hyperpigmentation .
Other spontaneously reported adverse events for RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 05 % predominantly appear to be local reactions similar to those seen in clinical trials .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Application of larger amounts of medication than recommended has not been shown to lead to more rapid or better results , and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
Oral ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of Vitamin A . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Do NOT use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if the patient is pregnant or is attempting to become pregnant or is at high risk of pregnancy .
• • Do NOT use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if the patient is sunburned or if the patient has eczema or other chronic skin conditions of the face .
• • Do NOT use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if the patient is inherently sensitive to sunlight .
• • Do NOT use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if the patient is also taking drug ( s ) known to be photosensitizers ( e . g . , thiazides , tetracyclines , fluoroquinolones , phenothiazines , sulfonamides ) because of the possibility of augmented phototoxicity .
Patients require detailed instruction to obtain maximal benefits and to understand all the precautions necessary to use this product with greatest safety .
The physician should review the Patient Package Insert .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be applied to the face once a day in the evening , using only enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
Patients should gently wash their faces with a mild soap , pat the skin dry , and wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
The patient should apply a small pearl - sized ( about ¼ inch or 5 mm diameter ) amount of cream to cover the entire affected area lightly .
Caution should be taken when applying the cream to avoid the eyes , ears , nostrils , and mouth .
Application of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may cause a transitory feeling of warmth or slight stinging .
Mitigation ( palliation ) of fine facial wrinkling may occur gradually over the course of therapy .
Up to 6 months of therapy may be required before the effects are seen .
With discontinuation of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % therapy , some patients may lose the mitigating effects of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % on fine facial wrinkles .
The safety and effectiveness of using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % daily for greater than 52 weeks have not been established .
Application of larger amounts of medication than recommended may not lead to more rapid or better results , and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
Patients treated with RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may use cosmetics but the areas to be treated should be cleansed before the medication is applied ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED RENOVA ® ( tretinoin cream ) , 0 . 02 % is available in tubes containing 20 grams ( NDC 0187 - 5150 - 20 ) , 40 grams ( NDC 0187 - 5150 - 40 ) , 60 grams ( NDC 0187 - 5150 - 60 ) , and in pumps containing 44 grams ( NDC 0187 - 5150 - 44 ) .
Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
QUESTIONS : Physicians and Pharmacists can call 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 , from 8 : 30 a . m . to 4 : 30 p . m . Eastern Time , Monday through Friday .
Manufactured for : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc .
Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada RENOVA and Retin - A are trademarks of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2019 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates Rev . 09 / 2019 9418703 9418803 RENOVA ( TRETINOIN CREAM ) 0 . 02 % RENOVA ( reh - NO - vah ) Generic Name : Tretinoin Cream ( 0 . 02 % ) Use only on the Face Read this leaflet carefully before you start to use your medicine .
Read the information you get every time you get more medicine .
There may be new information about the drug .
This leaflet does not take the place of talks with your doctor .
It is important for you to talk with your doctor about how to use RENOVA ® ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % for the best results and how to reduce side effects .
What is the Most Important Information about RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is a serious medicine .
Do not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if you are pregnant or attempting to become pregnant .
If you become pregnant while using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , please contact your doctor immediately .
Avoid sunlight and other medicines that may increase your sensitivity to sunlight ( see “ Who should not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ? ” )
.
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % does not remove wrinkles or repair sun - damaged skin .
( see “ What is RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ? ”
for more details . )
What is RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is a prescription medicine that may reduce fine facial wrinkles .
It is for patients who are using a total skin care and sunlight avoidance program .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % does not remove wrinkles or repair sun - damaged skin .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % does not work for everyone who uses it .
It may work better for some patients than for others .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % should be used only under the guidance of your doctor as part of a sunlight avoidance and total skin care program .
This program should include avoiding sunlight as much as possible , using clothing to protect you from sunlight , using sunscreens with a minimum SPF of 15 , and using face creams that add moisture to the skin .
When you use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , you will not see improvement right away .
Generally , you may notice some effects in 3 to 4 months .
If RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % treatment is stopped , the improvement may gradually disappear .
The use of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % in patients for more than 52 weeks has not been studied .
Therefore , it is not known if RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is safe or works if used longer than 52 weeks .
In a study in people with medium to dark skin color , RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % has not demonstrated a benefit over a sunlight avoidance and total skin care program .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % has not been studied in people with visible actinic keratoses or in people with a history of skin cancer .
Who should not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
Do not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % if : • • you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
If you become pregnant while using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % , please contact your doctor immediately .
• • you are sunburned or your skin is irritated .
• • you are highly sensitive to sunlight .
• • you are allergic to any of the ingredients in RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
The active ingredient is tretinoin .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the inactive ingredients .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % can cause increased skin irritation and increased chance of sunburn .
Tell your doctor if you have any skin condition .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may not be right for you .
Because RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may make your skin more likely to burn from sunlight , tell your doctor if you are using other medicines that increase sensitivity to sunlight .
You should not use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % with such medicines .
These include , but are not limited to : • • thiazides ( to treat high blood pressure ) • • tetracyclines , fluoroquinolones , sulfonamides ( to treat infection ) • • phenothiazines ( to treat serious emotional problems ) If you are taking any prescription or non - prescription medicines , check with your doctor to make sure you can use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % with them .
We do not know if RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is passed to infants through breast milk .
Therefore , tell your doctor if you are breast feeding .
How should I use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
Use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % as part of a total skin care and sun avoidance program .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions on how to use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % is usually applied to the face once a day in the evening , following the three steps listed below : • 1 .
Gently wash your face with a mild soap .
• 2 .
Pat the skin dry and wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
• 3 .
TUBE : Squeeze a small amount of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ( the size of a pearl — about 1 / 4 inch or 5 mm diameter ) on your fingertip , and apply to your face .
PUMP : Fully depress the pump twice to dispense a small amount of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ( the size of a pearl — about 1 / 4 inch or 5 mm diameter ) on your fingertip , and apply to your face .
This should be enough to cover your affected area lightly .
Be especially careful when applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to avoid your eyes , ears , nostrils , angles of the nose , and mouth .
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may cause severe redness , itching , burning , stinging , and peeling if used on these areas .
Using too much RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % may increase discomfort and skin redness and peeling .
You may use cosmetics 1 hour after applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
If you do , be sure to clean your face before applying RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % again .
Skin moisturizers should be used at least every morning to protect the treated areas from dryness .
Use sunscreen and wear protective clothing to protect the treated areas from sunlight .
If you sunburn easily , or if you spend a lot of time exposed to sunlight , be especially careful to protect your skin .
What should I avoid while using RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % can make your treated skin more sensitive to sunlight .
Therefore , keep out of the sunlight as much as possible and do not use sunlamps .
Avoid as much as possible products that can increase skin irritation , such as : • • other skin medicines • • medicated or abrasive ( rough ) soaps • • permanent wave solutions • • chemical hair removers or waxes • • electrolysis • • products with alcohol , spices , astringents , or lime • • cleaners , shampoos , or cosmetics with a strong drying effect • • other products that may irritate your skin What are the possible side effects of RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % ?
You may feel brief warmth or stinging on your skin after you use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
Most patients report peeling , dry skin , burning , stinging , itching , and redness .
These are usually mild to moderate and occur early in treatment .
Contact your doctor if the side effects are a problem .
General advice about prescription medicines Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Only use RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to treat the condition that your doctor has prescribed it for .
Do not give RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % to other people .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about RENOVA ( tretinoin cream ) 0 . 02 % that is written for health professionals .
Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Bausch Health US , LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc . , Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada RENOVA is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2019 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates Rev . 09 / 2019 9418703 9418803 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0187 - 5150 - 40 Rx only RENOVA ® ( TRETINOIN CREAM ) 0 . 02 % TUBE For Topical Use Only Net Wt .
40 g Ortho Dermatologics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
