Rx only NDC 51672 - 1357 - 8 For Topical Use Only Not for Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use DESCRIPTION Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % contains fluocinolone acetonide { ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , cyclic 16 , 17 acetal with acetone } , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
This formulation is also marketed as Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % for use as body oil for atopic dermatitis in adults and for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients 2 years and older and as fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % for chronic eczematous external otitis .
Chemically , fluocinolone acetonide is C24H30F2O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinolone acetonide in Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % has a molecular weight of 452 . 50 .
It is a white crystalline powder that is odorless , stable in light , and melts at 270 ° C with decomposition ; soluble in alcohol , acetone and methanol ; slightly soluble in chloroform ; insoluble in water .
Each gram of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil contains approximately 0 . 11 mg of fluocinolone acetonide in a blend of oils , which contains isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , light mineral oil , oleth - 2 , and refined peanut oil .
Each packaged product contains 2 shower caps .
The shower cap is made of low density polyethylene material with rubber elastic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , fluocinolone acetonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion of topical corticosteroids can enhance penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Also , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin can increase percutaneous absorption .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a vehicle - controlled study for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp in adults , after 21 days of treatment , 60 % of patients on active treatment and 21 % of patients on the drug vehicle had excellent to cleared clinical response .
Open - label safety studies on 33 children ( 20 subjects ages 2 to 6 years , 13 subjects ages 7 to 12 years ) with moderate to severe stable atopic dermatitis , and baseline body surface area involvement greater than 75 % in 18 patients , and 50 % to 75 % in 15 patients , were treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks .
Morning pre - stimulation cortisol level and post - Cortrosyn stimulation cortisol level were obtained in each subject at the beginning of the trial and at the end of 4 weeks of treatment .
At the end of treatment , 4 out of 18 subjects aged 2 to 5 years showed low pre - stimulation cortisol levels ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 6 µg / dL ; normal : cortisol > 7 µg / dL ) but all had normal responses to 0 . 25 mg of Cortrosyn stimulation ( cortisol > 18 µg / dL ) .
A clinical study was conducted to assess the safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , which contains refined peanut oil , on subjects with known peanut allergies .
The study enrolled 13 patients with atopic dermatitis , 6 to 17 years of age .
Of the 13 patients , 9 were Radioallergosorbent Test ( RAST ) positive to peanuts and 4 had no peanut sensitivity ( controls ) .
The study evaluated the responses to both prick test and patch test utilizing refined peanut oil NF , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil and histamine / saline controls , on the 13 individuals .
These subjects were also treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 7 days .
Prick test and patch test results for all 13 patients were negative to fluocinolone acetonide topical oil and the refined peanut oil .
One of the 9 peanut - sensitive patients experienced an exacerbation of atopic dermatitis after 5 days of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil use .
Importantly , the bulk peanut oil NF , used in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is heated at 475 ° F for at least 15 minutes , which should provide for adequate decomposition of allergenic proteins .
INDICATION AND USAGE Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated : In adult patients for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp ( Scalp Oil ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
This product contains refined peanut oil NF ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticoid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , which may occur with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic testing .
One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil ( see CLINICAL STUDIES section ) .
If wheal and flare type reactions ( which may be limited to pruritus ) or other manifestations of hypersensitivity develop , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is formulated with 48 % refined peanut oil NF .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing fluocinolone acetonide topical oil for peanut sensitive individuals .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of contact , wash eyes liberally with water .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should promptly report to their physician any worsening of their skin condition .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use fluocinolone acetonide topical oil in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied to the diaper area as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing .
• This medication should not be used on the face , underarm , or groin unless directed by the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH stimulation test • A . M . plasma cortisol test • Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Studies have not been performed to evaluate the mutagenic potential of fluocinolone acetonide , the active ingredient in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Some corticosteroids have been found to be genotoxic in various genotoxicity tests ( i . e . the in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay with metabolic activation , the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay , the Chinese hamster micronucleus test and the in vitro mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Therefore , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil may be used twice daily for up to 4 weeks in pediatric patients 2 years and older with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied to the diaper area .
Application to intertriginous areas should be avoided due to the increased possibility of local adverse events such as striae , atrophy , and telangiectasia , which may be irreversible .
The smallest amount of drug needed to cover the affected areas should be applied .
Long term safety in the pediatric population has not been established .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is not recommended for use on the face ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis - suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is formulated with 48 % refined peanut oil NF .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing fluocinolone acetonide topical oil for peanut sensitive individuals .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
A post marketing ( open - label ) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children ( 2 to 12 years ) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ( see Table of Incidence of Adverse Reactions ) .
Incidence of Adverse Reactions ( % ) N = 58 Adverse Reaction ( AR ) [ 1 ] # of subjects ( % ) Day 14 Day 28 [ 2 ] Day 56 [ 3 ] Any AE 15 ( 25 . 9 ) 6 ( 10 . 3 ) 7 ( 12 . 1 ) 7 ( 12 . 1 ) Telangiectasia 5 ( 8 . 6 ) 3 ( 5 . 2 ) 4 ( 6 . 9 ) 2 ( 3 . 5 ) Erythema 3 ( 5 . 2 ) 3 ( 5 . 2 ) Itching 3 ( 5 . 2 ) 3 ( 5 . 2 ) Irritation 3 ( 5 . 2 ) 3 ( 5 . 2 ) Burning 3 ( 5 . 2 ) 3 ( 5 . 2 ) Hypopigmentation 2 ( 3 . 5 ) 2 ( 3 . 5 ) Shiny Skin 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Papules and pustules 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Keratosis pilaris 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Folliculitis 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Facial herpes simplex 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Acneiform eruption 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) Ear infection 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 ( 1 . 7 ) [ 1 ] The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects , since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction .
[ 2 ] End of Treatment [ 3 ] Four Weeks Post Treatment OVERDOSAGE Topically applied fluocinolone acetonide topical oil can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil for scalp psoriasis in adults ( Scalp Oil ) : For the treatment of scalp psoriasis , wet or dampen hair and scalp thoroughly .
Apply a thin film of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil on the scalp , massage well and cover scalp with the supplied shower cap .
Leave on overnight or for a minimum of 4 hours before washing off .
Wash hair with regular shampoo and rinse thoroughly .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is supplied in bottles containing 4 fluid ounces .
It is labeled as Scalp Oil ( NDC # 51672 - 1357 - 8 ) .
Scalp Oil is supplied with 2 shower caps .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : September , 2019 PK - 6973 - 1 51 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 . 28 mL Bottle Carton 4 fl .
oz .
Net Contents 118 . 28 mL NDC 51672 - 1357 - 8 Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil 0 . 01 % ( SCALP OIL ) For Topical Use Only Not for Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
