[ MULTIMEDIA ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES • Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 06 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) 06 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ella is a progesterone agonist / antagonist emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Ella is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive .
Ella is a progesterone agonist / antagonist emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Ella is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet orally as soon as possible , within 120 hours ( 5 days ) after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Take with or without food .
Take at any time during the menstrual cycle .
( 2 . 1 ) • After ella use , initiate or resume hormonal contraception no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period .
( 2 . 2 ) • If vomiting occurs within 3 hours of taking ella , consider repeating the dose .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage and Administration • Take one tablet of ella orally as soon as possible within 120 hours ( 5 days ) after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• Take ella with or without food .
• Take ella at any time during the menstrual cycle .
2 . 2 Recommendations Regarding Use with Hormonal Contraception After ella use , initiate or resume hormonal contraception no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period .
For known or suspected failure of hormonal contraception refer to the hormonal contraceptive ’ s prescribing information for instructions on what to do [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommendation in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If vomiting occurs within 3 hours of taking ella , consider repeating the dose .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The ella tablet is supplied as a white to off - white , round , curved tablet containing 30 mg of ulipristal acetate and is marked " ella " on both sides .
• 30 mg tablet ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ella is contraindicated for use in the case of known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Known or suspected pregnancy ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Existing Pregnancy : ella is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ectopic pregnancy : Evaluate women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking ella for ectopic pregnancy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Fertility Following Use : Rapid return of fertility is likely .
Subsequent acts of intercourse should be protected by a reliable barrier method of contraception until the next menstrual period .
( 5 . 5 ) • Effect on Menstrual Cycle : ella may alter the next expected menses .
If menses is delayed beyond 1 week , rule out pregnancy .
( 5 . 6 ) • Ella does not protect against STI / HIV .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Existing Pregnancy Ella is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy .
5 . 2 Ectopic Pregnancy A history of ectopic pregnancy is not a contraindication to use of this emergency contraceptive method .
Healthcare providers , however , should consider the possibility of ectopic pregnancy in women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking ella .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking ella .
5 . 3 Repeated Use Ella is for occasional use as an emergency contraceptive .
It should not replace a regular method of contraception .
Repeated use of ella within the same menstrual cycle is not recommended , as safety and efficacy of repeat use within the same cycle has not been evaluated .
5 . 4 CYP3A4 Inducers A CYP3A4 inducer , rifampin , decreases the plasma concentration of ella significantly .
Ella should not be administered with CYP3A4 inducers [ see Drug interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Fertility Following Use A rapid return of fertility is likely following treatment with ella for emergency contraception .
After use of ella , a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used with subsequent acts of intercourse until the next menstrual period .
After using ella , if a woman wishes to initiate hormonal contraception as a regular method , she can do so , no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and she should use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 and 7 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Progestin - containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation .
Advise women to follow the instructions on the initiation or resumption of hormonal contraceptives after ella intake [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Effect on Menstrual Cycle After ella intake , menses sometimes occur earlier or later than expected by a few days .
In clinical trials , cycle length was increased by a mean of 2 . 5 days but returned to normal in the subsequent cycle .
Seven percent of subjects reported menses occurring more than 7 days earlier than expected , and 19 % reported a delay of more than 7 days .
If there is a delay in the onset of expected menses beyond 1 week , rule out pregnancy .
Nine percent of women studied reported intermenstrual bleeding after use of ella .
5 . 7 Sexually Transmitted Infections / HIV Ella does not protect against HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) or other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in the clinical trials were headache ( 18 % ) , abdominal pain ( 12 % ) , nausea ( 12 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 9 % ) , fatigue ( 6 % ) and dizziness ( 5 % ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact HRA Pharma America Inc . , at 844 - 994 - 0329 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Ella was studied in an open - label multicenter trial ( Open - Label Study ) and in a comparative , randomized , single - blind , multicenter trial ( Single - Blind Comparative Study ) .
In these studies , a total of 2 , 637 ( 1 , 533 + 1 , 104 ) women in the 30 mg ulipristal acetate groups were included in the safety analysis .
The mean age of women who received ulipristal acetate was 24 . 5 years and the mean body mass index ( BMI ) was 25 . 3 .
The racial demographics of those enrolled were 67 % Caucasian , 20 % Black or African American , 2 % Asian , and 12 % other .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in the clinical trials for women receiving ella were headache ( 18 % overall ) , nausea ( 12 % overall ) and abdominal and upper abdominal pain ( 12 % overall ) .
Table 1 lists those adverse reactions that were reported in ≥ 5 % of subjects in the clinical studies ( 14 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5 % of Women ( % ) Receiving a Single Dose of ella ( 30 mg Ulipristal Acetate ) Most Common Adverse Reactions Open - Label Study Single - Blind Comparative Study N = 1 , 533 N = 1 , 104 Headache 18 19 Nausea 12 13 Abdominal and upper abdominal pain 15 8 Dysmenorrhea 7 13 Fatigue 6 6 Dizziness 5 5 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Adolescents : the safety profile observed in adolescents aged 17 and younger in studies and post - marketing is similar to the safety profile in adults [ see Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ella : Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Acne Hypersensitivity reactions , including rash , urticaria , pruritis , and angioedema Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Several in vivo drug interaction studies have shown that ella is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 .
• Drugs or herbal products that induce CYP3A4 decrease the effectiveness of ella .
( 7 . 1 ) • Initiation of progestin - containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Changes in Emergency Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co - Administration of Other Products CYP3A inducers Drugs or herbal products that induce CYP3A4 decrease the plasma concentrations of ella , and may decrease its effectiveness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid co - administration of ella and drugs or herbal products such as : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ' s Wort • topiramate Hormonal contraceptives Progestin - containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation .
After using ella , if a woman wishes to initiate or resume hormonal contraception , she can do so , no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and she should use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period .
If a woman used ella due to a known or suspected failure of her hormonal contraception refer to the hormonal contraceptive ’ s prescribing information for instructions on what to do [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Increase in Plasma Concentrations of ella Associated with Co - Administered Drugs CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole increase plasma concentrations of ella [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Effects of ella on Co - Administered Drugs Hormonal contraceptives : ella may impact the effect of the progestin component of hormonal contraceptives .
Therefore , if a woman wishes to use hormonal contraception after using ella , she should use a reliable barrier method for subsequent acts of intercourse until her next menstrual period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Ella is contraindicated for use during an existing or suspected pregnancy .
No signal of concern regarding pregnancy complications was found in postmarketing studies [ see Data ] .
Isolated cases of major malformations in ella - exposed pregnancies were identified ; however , the data are not sufficient to determine a risk for birth defects with inadvertent use of ella during pregnancy .
Miscarriage was reported in 14 % of the known pregnancy outcomes ; a rate that is similar to the U . S . background rate for miscarriage .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
In animal reproduction studies , no malformations were observed during repeated administration of ulipristal acetate to pregnant rats , rabbits and monkeys at daily drug exposures ⅓ , ½ , and 3 times respectively , the human exposure at a dose of 30 mg [ see Data ] .
Data Human Data Ella pregnancy exposure data was collected in the U . S . and Europe from 1999 to 2015 and analyzed post - marketing using data from interventional clinical trials , observational studies and pharmacovigilance reports .
Known pregnancy outcomes were available for 462 / 784 pregnancies in which women received ella at doses of 30 mg or greater during the conception cycle or during pregnancy .
Data of pregnancies with known outcome were analyzed prospectively for 272 cases and retrospectively for 190 cases .
Pregnancy outcomes included 302 elective abortions ( 2 for fetal anomalies including 1 with trisomy 21 ) , 63 spontaneous abortions , and 13 ectopic pregnancies .
No maternal or fetal deaths were reported .
84 pregnancies continued until birth , with congenital anomalies reported in 5 infants , including 4 major malformations ( 2 / 4 with genetic syndromes ) .
Although these data do not allow estimation of the prevalence rate of congenital anomalies associated with inadvertent use of ella in pregnancy or determination of a causal relationship between reported anomalies and ella , they show that ella - exposed pregnancies were not associated with a pattern of increased risk of adverse outcomes .
Animal Data Ulipristal acetate was administered repeatedly to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis .
Embryofetal loss was noted in all pregnant rats and in half of the pregnant rabbits following 12 and 13 days of dosing , at daily drug exposures 1 / 3 and 1 / 2 the human exposure , respectively , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
There were no malformations of the surviving fetuses in these studies .
Adverse effects were not observed in the offspring of pregnant rats administered ulipristal acetate during the period of organogenesis through lactation at drug exposures 1 / 24 the human exposure based on AUC .
Administration of ulipristal acetate to pregnant monkeys for 4 days during the first trimester caused pregnancy termination in 2 / 5 animals at daily drug exposures 3 times the human exposure based on body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Ulipristal acetate and its active metabolite , monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate , are present in human milk in small amounts ( see Data ) .
Based on the levels of drug and active metabolite measured in breastmilk , a fully breastfed child would receive a weight - adjusted dosage of approximately 0 . 8 % of ulipristal acetate and monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate on Day 1 of drug administration and an approximate total of 1 % of the maternal dose over a 5 - day period after drug administration .
There is no information on the effects on the breastfed child or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ella and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ella or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data The breast milk of 12 lactating women following administration of ella was collected in 24 - hour increments to measure the concentrations of ulipristal acetate and the active metabolite monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate in breast milk .
The mean daily concentrations of ulipristal acetate in breast milk were 22 . 7 ng / mL [ 0 - 24 hours ] , 2 . 96 ng / mL [ 24 - 48 hours ] , 1 . 56 ng / mL [ 48 - 72 hours ] , 1 . 04 ng / mL [ 72 - 96 hours ] , and 0 . 69 ng / mL [ 96 - 120 hours ] .
The mean daily concentrations of monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate in breast milk were 4 . 49 ng / mL [ 0 - 24 hours ] , 0 . 62 ng / mL [ 24 - 48 hours ] , 0 . 28 ng / mL [ 48 - 72 hours ] , 0 . 17 ng / mL [ 72 - 96 hours ] , and 0 . 10 ng / mL [ 96 - 120 hours ] .
Using these data , a fully breastfed infant would receive approximately 4 . 1 mcg / kg of ulipristal acetate and monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate on Day 1 following drug administration and approximately 5 . 2 mcg / kg over a five day period following drug administration .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Progestin - containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ella to delay ovulation .
Advise females to use a reliable barrier method for subsequent acts of intercourse until her next menstrual period .
After using ella , if a woman wishes to initiate or resume hormonal contraception , she can do so , no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and she should use a reliable barrier method of contraception until the next menstrual period .
If a woman used ella due to a known or suspected failure of her hormonal contraception refer to the hormonal contraceptive ’ s prescribing information for instructions on what to do [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use There is no relevant use of ulipristal acetate for children of prepubertal age in the indication emergency contraception .
Adolescents : Safety and efficacy of ella have been established in women of reproductive age .
The clinical trials of ella enrolled 41 females under age 18 , and a post - marketing observational study evaluating effectiveness and safety of ella in adolescents enrolled 279 females under age 18 , including 76 under age 16 years .
In these studies , the safety and efficacy profile observed in adolescents aged 17 and younger was similar to that in adults .
Use of ella before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women .
8 . 6 Race While no formal studies have evaluated the effect of race , a cross - study comparison of two pharmacokinetic studies indicated that exposure in South Asians may exceed that in Caucasians and African Americans .
However , no difference in efficacy and safety was observed for women of different races in clinical studies .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of ella .
8 . 8 Renal Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of ella .
10 OVERDOSAGE Experience with ulipristal acetate overdose is limited .
In a clinical study , single doses equivalent to up to 4 times ella were administered to a limited number of subjects without any adverse reactions .
11 DESCRIPTION The ella ( ulipristal acetate ) tablet for oral use contains 30 mg of a single active steroid ingredient , ulipristal acetate [ 17α - acetoxy - 11β - ( 4 - N , N - dimethylaminophenyl ) - 19 - norpregna - 4 , 9 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione ] , a synthetic progesterone agonist / antagonist .
The inactive ingredients are lactose monohydrate , povidone K - 30 , croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate .
Ulipristal acetate is a white to yellow crystalline powder which has a molecular weight of 475 . 6 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C30H37NO4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action When taken immediately before ovulation is to occur , ella postpones follicular rupture .
The likely primary mechanism of action of ulipristal acetate for emergency contraception is therefore inhibition or delay of ovulation ; however , alterations to the endometrium that may affect implantation may also contribute to efficacy .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Ulipristal acetate is a selective progesterone receptor modulator with antagonistic and partial agonistic effects ( a progesterone agonist / antagonist ) at the progesterone receptor .
It binds the human progesterone receptor and prevents progesterone from occupying its receptor .
The pharmacodynamics of ulipristal acetate depend on the timing of administration in the menstrual cycle .
Administration in the mid - follicular phase causes inhibition of folliculogenesis and reduction of estradiol concentration .
Pharmacodynamic data showed that administration of ella to 34 women in the late follicular phase postponed follicular rupture for at least 5 days in all ( 100 % ) of 8 subjects who took ella before the luteinizing hormone ( LH ) surge and 11 ( 79 % ) of 14 subjects who took ella immediately before ovulation ( when LH has already started to rise ) .
However , treatment was not effective in postponing follicular rupture when administered on the day of LH peak .
Dosing in the early luteal phase does not significantly delay endometrial maturation but decreases endometrial thickness by 0 . 6 ± 2 . 2 mm ( mean ± SD ) .
Hormonal Contraceptives after ella intake : In women initiating hormonal contraception ( quickstart scenario ) : When a combined oral contraceptive pill ( COC ) containing ethinyl estradiol 30 µg + levonorgestrel 150 µg was started the day after ella intake during the follicular phase , ella did not interfere with the COC ’ s ability to suppress ovarian activity , as assessed by measurement of follicle size via transvaginal ultrasound , combined with serum progesterone and estradiol levels : ovarian activity was suppressed in 61 . 5 % ( 24 / 39 ) of subjects receiving ella plus COC and 62 . 2 % ( 23 / 37 ) of subjects receiving a placebo plus the COC .
The incidence of ovulation was similar between the group that received ella plus the COC [ 33 . 3 % ( 13 / 39 ) ] and the group that received a placebo plus the COC [ 32 . 4 % ( 12 / 37 ) ] .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
The initiation of a desogestrel 75 µg progestin - only pill ( POP ) the day after ella intake during the follicular phase was associated with a higher incidence of ovulation in the six days following ella intake compared to an ella - only treatment group , and a relatively slower onset ( 3 to 4 days ) of thickened cervical mucus compared to a group given desogestrel without prior ella intake ( 2 days ) , suggesting an effect of prior use of ella on the ability of desogestrel to inhibit mucus permeability .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ; 7 . 3 ) ] .
When a COC containing ethinyl estradiol 30 µg + levonorgestrel 150 µg was started 2 days after ella intake , ella ' s ability to delay ovulation , as assessed by transvaginal ultrasound , was reduced : follicular rupture occurred in 9 / 33 subjects ( 27 % ) in less than 5 days , compared to 1 / 33 subjects after ella alone ( 3 % ) .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
In women resuming combined hormonal contraception ( missed pills scenario ) : The effects on ovarian activity of delaying versus immediately resuming COCs after ella intake were investigated in 49 women who had been using COCs containing ethinyl estradiol 30 µg + levonorgestrel 150 µg once daily for 21 days followed by 7 days of placebo pills for at least one cycle .
All subjects missed three consecutive pills ( Days 5 - 7 ) during the first week of pills in the subsequent cycle and took ella on the following day ( Day 8 ) .
These subjects were randomized to resume their COCs either on the same day as ella intake versus five days later .
No ovulations with potential risk of pregnancy occurred in either group in the five days following ella intake .
However , in the group that waited five days to resume taking COCs , 4 / 23 ( 17 . 4 % ) women did ovulate later in the cycle ( Days 18 - 26 ) whereas no ovulations ( 0 / 26 ) occurred in the group that resumed COC intake on the same day as ella intake .
Whether similar results can be expected with other COC products containing different progestins or missed active pills during different weeks in a treatment cycle is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single dose administration of ella in 20 women under fasting conditions , maximum plasma concentrations of ulipristal acetate and the active metabolite , monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate , were 176 and 69 ng / ml and were reached at 0 . 9 and 1 hour , respectively .
Figure 1 : Mean ( ± SD ) Plasma Concentration - time Profile of Ulipristal Acetate and Monodemethyl - ulipristal Acetate Following Single Dose Administration of 30 mg Ulipristal Acetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values Following Administration of ella ( ulipristal acetate ) Tablet 30 mg to 20 Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax ( ng / ml ) AUC0 - t ( ng • hr / ml ) AUC0 - ∞ ( ng • hr / ml ) tmax ( hr ) * t1 / 2 ( hr ) Ulipristal acetate 176 ( 89 ) 548 ( 259 ) 556 ( 260 ) 0 . 9 ( 0 . 5 - 2 . 0 ) 32 ( 6 . 3 ) Monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate 69 ( 26 ) 240 ( 59 ) 246 ( 59 ) 0 . 9 ( 0 . 8 - 2 . 0 ) 27 ( 6 . 9 ) Cmax = maximum concentration AUC0 - t = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to time of last determinable concentration AUC0 - ∞ = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity tmax = time to maximum concentration t1 / 2 = elimination half - life * Median ( range ) Effect of food : Administration of ella together with a high - fat breakfast resulted in approximately 40 - 45 % lower mean Cmax , a delayed tmax ( from a median of 0 . 75 hours to 3 hours ) and 20 - 25 % higher mean AUC0 - ∞ of ulipristal acetate and monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate compared with administration in the fasting state .
These differences are not expected to impair the efficacy or safety of ella to a clinically significant extent ; therefore , ella can be taken with or without food .
Distribution Ulipristal acetate is highly bound ( > 94 % ) to plasma proteins , including high density lipoprotein , alpha - l - acid glycoprotein , and albumin .
Metabolism Ulipristal acetate is metabolized to mono - demethylated and di - demethylated metabolites .
In vitro data indicate that this is predominantly mediated by CYP3A4 .
The mono - demethylated metabolite is pharmacologically active .
Excretion The terminal half - life of ulipristal acetate in plasma following a single 30 mg dose is estimated to be 32 . 4 ± 6 . 3 hours .
Drug interactions CYP3A4 inducers : When a single 30 mg dose of ulipristal acetate was administered following administration of the strong CYP3A4 inducer , rifampin 600 mg once daily for 9 days , Cmax and AUC of ulipristal acetate decreased by 90 % and 93 % respectively .
The Cmax and AUC of monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate decreased by 84 % and 90 % respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
CYP3A4 inhibitors : When a single 10 mg dose of ulipristal acetate was administered following administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 7 days , Cmax and AUC of ulipristal acetate increased by 2 - and 5 . 9 - fold , respectively .
While the AUC of monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate increased by 2 . 4 - fold , Cmax of monodemethyl - ulipristal acetate decreased by 47 % .
There was no in vivo drug - drug interaction study between ulipristal acetate 30 mg and CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
In vitro studies demonstrated that ella does not induce or inhibit the activity of cytochrome P450 enzymes .
P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) transporter : In vitro data indicate that ulipristal may be an inhibitor of P - gp at clinically relevant concentrations .
When a single 60 mg dose of fexofenadine , a substrate of P - gp glycoprotein , was administered 1 . 5 hours after the administration of a single 10 mg dose of ulipristal acetate , there was no increase in Cmax or AUC of fexofenadine .
Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) transporter : In vitro data indicate that ulipristal acetate may be an inhibitor of BCRP at the intestinal level .
The effects of ella on P - gp and BCRP transporters are unlikely to have any clinical consequences when considering ella ' s single dose treatment regimen , although there was no in vivo drug interaction study between ulipristal acetate 30 mg ( ella ) and substrates of P - pg and BCRP transporters .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity : Carcinogenicity potential was evaluated in rats and mice .
Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to ulipristal acetate daily for 99 - 100 weeks at doses of 1 , 3 , or 10 mg / kg / day , representing exposures up to 31 times higher than exposures at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
There were no drug - related neoplasms in male rats .
In female rats , potential treatment - related neoplastic findings were limited to adrenal cortical adenomas in the intermediate dose group ( 3 mg / kg / day ) .
Despite the increase , this incidence of adrenal cortical adenomas in females may not be relevant to clinical use .
Tg . rasH2 transgenic mice were exposed to ulipristal acetate for 26 weeks at doses of 5 , 45 , or 130 mg / kg / day , representing exposures 100 times higher than exposures at the MRHD .
There was no drug - related increase in neoplasm incidence in male or female mice .
Genotoxicity : Ulipristal acetate was not genotoxic in the Ames assay , in vitro mammalian assays utilizing mouse lymphoma cells and human peripheral blood lymphocytes , and in an in vivo micronucleus assay in mice .
Impairment of Fertility : Single oral doses of ulipristal acetate prevented ovulation in 50 % of rats at 2 times the human exposure based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Single doses of ulipristal acetate given on post - coital days 4 or 5 prevented pregnancy in 80 - 100 % of rats and in 50 % of rabbits when given on post - coital days 5 or 6 at drug exposures 4 and 12 times the human exposure based on body surface area .
Lower doses administered for 4 days to rats and rabbits were also effective at preventing ovulation and pregnancy .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two multicenter clinical studies evaluated the efficacy and safety of ella .
An open - label study provided the primary data to support the efficacy and safety of ulipristal acetate for emergency contraception when taken 48 to 120 hours after unprotected intercourse .
A single - blind comparative study provided the primary data to support the efficacy and safety of ulipristal acetate for emergency contraception when taken 0 to 72 hours after unprotected intercourse and provided supportive data for ulipristal acetate for emergency contraception when taken > 72 to 120 hours after unprotected intercourse .
Women in both studies were required to have a negative pregnancy test prior to receiving emergency contraception .
The primary efficacy analyses were performed on subjects less than 36 years of age who had a known pregnancy status after taking study medication .
Table 3 : Summary of Clinical Trial Results for Women Who Received a Single Dose of ella ( 30 mg Ulipristal Acetate ) Open - Label Study 48 to 120 Hours * Single - Blind Comparative Study 0 to 72 Hours * N = 1 , 242 N = 844 Expected Pregnancy Rate ** 5 . 5 5 . 6 Observed Pregnancy Rate ** ( 95 % confidence interval ) 2 . 2 ( 1 . 5 , 3 . 2 ) 1 . 9 ( 1 . 1 , 3 . 1 ) * Time after unprotected intercourse when ella was taken ** Number of pregnancies per 100 women at risk for pregnancy 14 . 1 Open - Label Study This study was a multicenter open - label trial conducted at 40 family planning clinics in the United States .
Healthy women with a mean age of 24 years who requested emergency contraception 48 to 120 hours after unprotected intercourse received a dose of 30 mg ulipristal acetate ( ella ) .
The median BMI for the study subjects was 25 . 3 and ranged from 16 . 1 to 61 . 3 kg / m2 .
Twenty - seven pregnancies occurred in 1 , 242 women aged 18 to 35 years evaluated for efficacy .
The number of pregnancies expected without emergency contraception was calculated based on the timing of intercourse with regard to each woman ’ s menstrual cycle .
Ella statistically significantly reduced the pregnancy rate , from an expected rate of 5 . 5 % to an observed rate of 2 . 2 % , when taken 48 to 120 hours after unprotected intercourse .
14 . 2 Single - Blind Comparative Study This study was a multicenter , single - blind , randomized comparison of the efficacy and safety of 30 mg ulipristal acetate ( ella ) to levonorgestrel ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
Subjects were enrolled at 35 sites in the U . S . , the United Kingdom and Ireland , with the majority ( 66 % ) having been enrolled in the U . S . Healthy women with a mean age of 25 years who requested emergency contraception within 120 hours of unprotected intercourse were enrolled and randomly allocated to receive ella or levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg .
The median BMI for the study subjects was 25 . 3 and ranged from 14 . 9 to 70 . 0 kg / m2 .
In the ella group , 16 pregnancies occurred in 844 women aged 16 to 35 years when emergency contraception was taken 0 to 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
The number of pregnancies expected without emergency contraception was calculated based on the timing of intercourse with regard to each woman ' s menstrual cycle ; ella statistically significantly reduced the pregnancy rate , from an expected 5 . 6 % to an observed 1 . 9 % , when taken within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
There were no pregnancies observed in the women who were administered ella more than 72 hours after unprotected intercourse ( 10 % of women who received ella ) .
14 . 3 Pooled Analysis Data from the two studies were pooled to provide a total efficacy population of women treated with ulipristal acetate up to 120 hours after unprotected intercourse .
Time Trend analysis for the five 24 - hour intervals from 0 to 120 hours between unprotected intercourse and treatment was conducted .
There were no significant differences in the observed pregnancy rates across the five time intervals .
Subgroup analysis of the pooled data by BMI showed that for women with BMI > 30 kg / m2 ( 16 % of all subjects ) , the observed pregnancy rate was 3 . 1 % ( 95 % CI : 1 . 7 , 5 . 7 ) , which was not significantly reduced compared to the expected pregnancy rate of 4 . 5 % in the absence of emergency contraception taken within 120 hours after unprotected intercourse .
In the comparative study , a similar effect was seen for the comparator emergency contraception drug , levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg .
For levonorgestrel , when used by women with BMI > 30 kg / m2 , the observed pregnancy rate was 7 . 4 % ( 95 % CI : 3 . 9 , 13 . 4 ) , compared to the expected pregnancy rate of 4 . 4 % in the absence of emergency contraception taken within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 53002 - 2630 NDC : 53002 - 2630 - 1 1 TABLET in a BLISTER PACK / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - Approved patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Administration Instructions • Instruct patients to take ella as soon as possible and not more than 120 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately in case of vomiting within 3 hours of taking the tablet , to discuss whether to take another tablet .
• Advise patients that after using ella , a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used for all subsequent acts of intercourse until the next menstrual period .
• Advise patients that after using ella , additional levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive pills should not be used within 5 days of ella intake .
• Advise patients that after using ella , hormonal contraception should be initiated or resumed no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ella and to use a reliable contraceptive barrier method until the next menstrual period .
• Advise patients with known or suspected failure of a hormonal contraceptive to refer to the hormonal contraceptive ’ s prescribing information for instructions on what to do .
Ectopic Pregnancy Advise patients to seek medical attention if they experience severe lower abdominal pain 3 to 5 weeks after taking ella , in order to be evaluated for an ectopic pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Effect on Menstrual Cycle Advise women that after ella intake , menses may occur earlier or later than expected , by a few days .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider and consider the possibility of pregnancy if their period is delayed after taking ella by more than 1 week beyond the date it was expected [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Sexually Transmistted Infections / HIV Inform women that ella does not protect against HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases / infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise women to inform their healthcare provider if they take herbal supplements such as St . John ’ s wort [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : June 2021 Patient Information ella ( el - uh ) ( ulipristal acetate ) tablet , for oral use Read this Patient Information Leaflet before you take ella .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is ella ?
● Ella is a prescription emergency contraceptive that reduces your chance of becoming pregnant if your birth control fails or you have unprotected sex .
● Ella should not be used as your regular birth control .
It is very important that you have a reliable form of birth control that is right for you .
● Ella will not protect you against HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
Who should not take ella ?
Do not take ella if : ● you know or suspect you are already pregnant .
Ella is not for use to end an existing pregnancy .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ella ?
Before you take ella , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : ● have a history of pregnancy outside the womb , usually in a fallopian tube ( ectopic pregnancy ) .
● have taken ella during the same menstrual cycle for a different act of unprotected sex or birth control failure .
Do not take ella more than 1 time in the same menstrual cycle .
● are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
A small of amount of the hormones in ella may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to healthcare provider about the best birth control for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using some other medicines may make ella less effective .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : a hormonal form of birth control such as birth control pills , implant , IUD ( intrauterine device ) or patch , St . John ’ s Wort , bosentan , griseofulvin , phenytoin , topiramate , oxcarbazepine , carbamazepine , barbiturates , rifampin , and felbamate .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How does ella work ?
Ella is thought to work for emergency contraception primarily by stopping or delaying the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that ella may also work by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus .
How should I take ella ?
● Take ella as soon as possible within 5 days ( 120 hours ) after unprotected sex or if you had a birth control failure .
● Ella can be taken with or without food .
● Contact your healthcare provider right away if you vomit within 3 hours of taking ella .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe another dose of ella for you .
● Ella can be taken at any time during the menstrual cycle .
● Ella is meant for emergency contraception only and is not to be used frequently or as a regular birth control .
If you need to use emergency contraception often , talk to your healthcare provider and learn about methods of birth control that are right for you and about sexually transmitted infection prevention .
● After using ella , you should use a reliable barrier birth control method ( such as condom with spermicide ) each time you have sex until your next menstrual period .
● After using ella , do not use any additional levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive pills within 5 days after taking ella .
● After using ella , wait 5 days to start or resume hormonal birth control as a regular method ( such as the pill , patch or vaginal ring ) .
If you used ella because you had a problem with your hormonal birth control , follow the instructions provided for that specific hormonal birth control product or contact your healthcare provider for further information .
Be sure to use a reliable barrier birth control method ( such as a condom with spermicide ) each time you have sex until your next menstrual period .
What are the possible side effects of ella ?
● Pregnancy outside of the womb ( ectopic pregnancy ) .
If you have severe lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain about 3 to 5 weeks after taking ella , you may have a pregnancy outside of the uterus ( womb ) , which is called an ectopic or tubal pregnancy .
An ectopic pregnancy is a serious condition that needs medical treatment right away .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away if you think you may have an ectopic pregnancy .
● Changes in menstrual cycle .
Some women taking ella may have their next period earlier or later than expected .
If your period is more than a week late , you should take a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare provider .
The most common side effects of ella include : ○ headache ○ nausea ○ stomach ( abdominal ) pain ○ menstrual pain ( dysmenorrhea ) ○ tiredness ○ dizziness Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of ella .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ella ?
● Store ella at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
● Protect ella from light .
Keep ella in the blister card inside the original box until you are ready to take it .
Keep ella and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ella : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use ella for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ella to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about ella .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ella that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ella ?
Active ingredients : ulipristal acetate , 30 mg Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , povidone , croscarmellose sodium , and magnesium stearate Manufactured for : HRA Pharma America Inc .
Morristown , NJ 07960 Under License From : Laboratoire HRA Pharma 92320 Chatillon , France ella ® is a registered trademark of Laboratoire HRA Pharma Manufactured by : Cenexi , 95520 Osny , France , or Laboratorios León Farma S . A . , 24008 León , Spain or Delpharm Lille SAS , 59452 Lys - Lez - Lannoy , France For more information , go to www . ella - now . com or call 844 - 994 - 0329 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ella : Ella 30 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
