DESCRIPTION Doxazosin mesylate is a quinazoline compound that is a selective inhibitor of the alpha1 subtype of alpha adrenergic receptors .
The chemical name of doxazosin mesylate is 1 - ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) - 4 - ( 1 , 4 - benzodioxan - 2 - ylcarbonyl ) piperazine methanesulfonate .
The empirical formula for doxazosin mesylate is C23H25N5O5 • CH4O3S and the molecular weight is 547 . 6 .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxazosin mesylate is freely soluble in dimethylsulfoxide , soluble in dimethylformamide , slightly soluble in methanol , ethanol , and water ( 0 . 8 % at 25 ° C ) , and very slightly soluble in acetone and methylene chloride .
Doxazosin mesylate is available as colored tablets for oral use and contains 1 mg ( white ) , 2 mg ( yellow ) , 4 mg ( orange ) and 8 mg ( green ) of doxazosin as the free base .
The inactive ingredients for all tablets are : microcrystalline cellulose , NF ; lactose , NF ; sodium starch glycolate , NF ; magnesium stearate , NF and sodium lauryl sulfate , NF .
The 2 mg tablet contains D & C yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake and FD & C yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake ; the 4 mg tablet contains FD & C yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake ; the 8 mg tablet contains FD & C blue # 2 Aluminum Lake and D & C yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics A . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) Benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) is a common cause of urinary outflow obstruction in aging males .
Severe BPH may lead to urinary retention and renal damage .
A static and a dynamic component contribute to the symptoms and reduced urinary flow rate associated with BPH .
The static component is related to an increase in prostate size caused , in part , by a proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the prostatic stroma .
However , the severity of BPH symptoms and the degree of urethral obstruction do not correlate well with the size of the prostate .
The dynamic component of BPH is associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the prostate and bladder neck .
The degree of tone in this area is mediated by the alpha1 adrenoceptor , which is present in high density in the prostatic stroma , prostatic capsule and bladder neck .
Blockade of the alpha1 receptor decreases urethral resistance and may relieve the obstruction and BPH symptoms .
In the human prostate , doxazosin mesylate antagonizes phenylephrine ( alpha1 agonist ) - induced contractions , in vitro , and binds with high affinity to the alpha1c adrenoceptor .
The receptor subtype is thought to be the predominant functional type in the prostate .
Doxazosin mesylate acts within 1 - 2 weeks to decrease the severity of BPH symptoms and improve urinary flow rate .
Since alpha1 adrenoceptors are of low density in the urinary bladder ( apart from the bladder neck ) , doxazosin mesylate should maintain bladder contractility .
The efficacy of doxazosin mesylate was evaluated extensively in over 900 patients with BPH in double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
Doxazosin mesylate treatment was superior to placebo in improving patient symptoms and urinary flow rate .
Significant relief with doxazosin mesylate was seen as early as one week into the treatment regimen , with doxazosin mesylate treated patients ( N = 173 ) showing a significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) increase in maximum flow rate of 0 . 8 mL / sec compared to a decrease of 0 . 5 mL / sec in the placebo group ( N = 41 ) .
In long - term studies improvement was maintained for up to 2 years of treatment .
In 66 - 71 % of patients , improvements above baseline were seen in both symptoms and maximum urinary flow rate .
In three placebo - controlled studies of 14 - 16 weeks duration obstructive symptoms ( hesitation , intermittency , dribbling , weak urinary stream , incomplete emptying of the bladder ) and irritative symptoms ( nocturia , daytime frequency , urgency , burning ) of BPH were evaluated at each visit by patient - assessed symptom questionnaires .
The bothersomeness of symptoms was measured with a modified Boyarsky questionnaire .
Symptom severity / frequency was assessed using a modified Boyarsky questionnaire or an AUA - based questionnaire .
Uroflowmetric evaluations were performed at times of peak ( 2 - 6 hours post - dose ) and / or trough ( 24 hours post - dose ) plasma concentrations of doxazosin mesylate .
The results from the three placebo - controlled studies ( N = 609 ) showing significant efficacy with 4 mg and 8 mg doxazosin are summarized in Table 1 .
In all three studies , doxazosin mesylate resulted in statistically significant relief of obstructive and irritative symptoms compared to placebo .
Statistically significant improvements of 2 . 3 - 3 . 3 mL / sec in maximum flow rate were seen with doxazosin mesylate in Studies 1 and 2 , compared to 0 . 1 - 0 . 7 mL / sec with placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In one fixed dose study ( Study 2 ) doxazosin mesylate therapy ( 4 - 8 mg , once daily ) resulted in a significant and sustained improvement in maximum urinary flow rate of 2 . 3 - 3 . 3 mL / sec ( Table 1 ) compared to placebo ( 0 . 1 mL / sec ) .
In this study , the only study in which weekly evaluations were made , significant improvement with doxazosin mesylate vs . placebo was seen after one week .
The proportion of patients who responded with a maximum flow rate improvement of ≥ 3 mL / sec was significantly larger with doxazosin mesylate ( 34 - 42 % ) than placebo ( 13 - 17 % ) .
A significantly greater improvement was also seen in average flow rate with doxazosin mesylate ( 1 . 6 mL / sec ) than with placebo ( 0 . 2 mL / sec ) .
The onset and time course of symptom relief and increased urinary flow from Study 1 are illustrated in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] In BPH patients ( N = 450 ) treated for up to 2 years in open - label studies , doxazosin mesylate therapy resulted in significant improvement above baseline in urinary flow rates and BPH symptoms .
The significant effects of doxazosin mesylate were maintained over the entire treatment period .
Although blockade of alpha1 adrenoceptors also lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients with increased peripheral vascular resistance , doxazosin mesylate treatment of normotensive men with BPH did not result in a clinically significant blood pressure lowering effect ( Table 2 ) .
The proportion of normotensive patients with a sitting systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure less than 60 mmHg at any time during treatment with doxazosin mesylate 1 - 8 mg once daily was 6 . 7 % with doxazosin and not significantly different ( statistically ) from that with placebo ( 5 % ) .
TABLE 2 Mean Changes in Blood Pressure from Baseline to the Mean of the Final Efficacy Phase in Normotensives ( Diastolic BP < 90 mmHg ) in Two Double - blind , Placebo - controlled U . S . Studies with Doxazosin Mesylate 1 - 8 mg once daily .
PLACEBO ( N = 85 ) DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE ( N = 183 ) Sitting BP ( mmHg ) Baseline Change Baseline Change Systolic 128 . 4 - 1 . 4 128 . 8 - 4 . 9 [ 1 ] Diastolic 79 . 2 - 1 . 2 79 . 6 - 2 . 4 null Standing BP ( mmHg ) Baseline Change Baseline Change Systolic 128 . 5 - 0 . 6 128 . 5 - 5 . 3 null Diastolic 80 . 5 - 0 . 7 80 . 4 - 2 . 6 null [ 1 ] p ≤ 0 . 05 compared to placebo B . Hypertension The mechanism of action of doxazosin mesylate is selective blockade of the alpha1 ( postjunctional ) subtype of adrenergic receptors .
Studies in normal human subjects have shown that doxazosin competitively antagonized the pressor effects of phenylephrine ( an alpha1 agonist ) and the systolic pressor effect of norepinephrine .
Doxazosin and prazosin have similar abilities to antagonize phenylephrine .
The antihypertensive effect of doxazosin mesylate results from a decrease in systemic vascular resistance .
The parent compound doxazosin is primarily responsible for the antihypertensive activity .
The low plasma concentrations of known active and inactive metabolites of doxazosin ( 2 - piperazinyl , 6 ' - and 7 ' - hydroxy and 6 - and 7 - O - desmethyl compounds ) compared to parent drug indicate that the contribution of even the most potent compound ( 6 ' - hydroxy ) to the antihypertensive effect of doxazosin in man is probably small .
The 6 ' - and 7 ' - hydroxy metabolites have demonstrated antioxidant properties at concentrations of 5 µM , in vitro .
Administration of doxazosin mesylate results in a reduction in systemic vascular resistance .
In patients with hypertension there is little change in cardiac output .
Maximum reductions in blood pressure usually occur 2 - 6 hours after dosing and are associated with a small increase in standing heart rate .
Like other alpha1 - adrenergic blocking agents , doxazosin has a greater effect on blood pressure and heart rate in the standing position .
In a pooled analysis of placebo - controlled hypertension studies with about 300 hypertensive patients per treatment group , doxazosin , at doses of 1 - 16 mg given once daily , lowered blood pressure at 24 hours by about 10 / 8 mmHg compared to placebo in the standing position and about 9 / 5 mmHg in the supine position .
Peak blood pressure effects ( 1 - 6 hours ) were larger by about 50 - 75 % ( i . e . , trough values were about 55 - 70 % of peak effect ) , with the larger peak - trough differences seen in systolic pressures .
There was no apparent difference in the blood pressure response of Caucasians and blacks or of patients above and below age 65 .
In these predominantly normocholesterolemic patients doxazosin produced small reductions in total serum cholesterol ( 2 - 3 % ) , LDL cholesterol ( 4 % ) , and a similarly small increase in HDL / total cholesterol ratio ( 4 % ) .
The clinical significance of these findings is uncertain .
In the same patient population , patients receiving doxazosin mesylate gained a mean of 0 . 6 kg compared to a mean loss of 0 . 1 kg for placebo patients .
Pharmacokinetics After oral administration of therapeutic doses , peak plasma levels of doxazosin mesylate occur at about 2 - 3 hours .
Bioavailability is approximately 65 % , reflecting first pass metabolism of doxazosin by the liver .
The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of doxazosin mesylate was examined in a crossover study with twelve hypertensive subjects .
Reductions of 18 % in mean maximum plasma concentration and 12 % in the area under the concentration - time curve occurred when doxazosin mesylate was administered with food .
Neither of these differences was statistically or clinically significant .
Doxazosin mesylate is extensively metabolized in the liver , mainly by O - demethylation of the quinazoline nucleus or hydroxylation of the benzodioxan moiety .
Although several active metabolites of doxazosin have been identified , the pharmacokinetics of these metabolites have not been characterized .
In a study of two subjects administered radiolabelled doxazosin 2 mg orally and 1 mg intravenously on two separate occasions , approximately 63 % of the dose was eliminated in the feces and 9 % of the dose was found in the urine .
On average only 4 . 8 % of the dose was excreted as unchanged drug in the feces and only a trace of the total radioactivity in the urine was attributed to unchanged drug .
At the plasma concentrations achieved by therapeutic doses approximately 98 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Plasma elimination of doxazosin is biphasic , with a terminal elimination half - life of about 22 hours .
Steady - state studies in hypertensive patients given doxazosin doses of 2 - 16 mg once daily showed linear kinetics and dose proportionality .
In two studies , following the administration of 2 mg orally once daily , the mean accumulation ratios ( steady - state AUC vs . first dose AUC ) were 1 . 2 and 1 . 7 .
Enterohepatic recycling is suggested by secondary peaking of plasma doxazosin concentrations .
In a crossover study in 24 normotensive subjects , the pharmacokinetics and safety of doxazosin were shown to be similar with morning and evening dosing regimens .
The area under the curve after morning dosing was , however , 11 % less than that after evening dosing and the time to peak concentration after evening dosing occurred significantly later than that after morning dosing ( 5 . 6 hr vs . 3 . 5 hr ) .
The pharmacokinetics of doxazosin mesylate in young ( < 65 years ) and elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) subjects were similar for plasma half - life values and oral clearance .
Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly patients and patients with renal impairment have shown no significant alterations compared to younger patients with normal renal function .
Administration of a single 2 mg dose to patients with cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh Class A ) showed a 40 % increase in exposure to doxazosin .
There are only limited data on the effects of drugs known to influence the hepatic metabolism of doxazosin [ e . g . , cimetidine ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) ] .
As with any drug wholly metabolized by the liver , use of doxazosin mesylate in patients with altered liver function should be undertaken with caution .
In two placebo - controlled studies , of normotensive and hypertensive BPH patients , in which doxazosin was administered in the morning and the titration interval was two weeks and one week , respectively , trough plasma concentrations of doxazosin mesylate were similar in the two populations .
Linear kinetics and dose proportionality were observed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE A . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of both the urinary outflow obstruction and obstructive and irritative symptoms associated with BPH : obstructive symptoms ( hesitation , intermittency , dribbling , weak urinary stream , incomplete emptying of the bladder ) and irritative symptoms ( nocturia , daytime frequency , urgency , burning ) .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets may be used in all BPH patients whether hypertensive or normotensive .
In patients with hypertension and BPH , both conditions were effectively treated with doxazosin mesylate tablets monotherapy .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets provides rapid improvement in symptoms and urinary flow rate in 66 - 71 % of patients .
Sustained improvements with doxazosin mesylate tablets were seen in patients treated for up to 14 weeks in double - blind studies and up to 2 years in open - label studies .
B . Hypertension .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets is also indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets may be used alone or in combination with diuretics , beta - adrenergic blocking agents , calcium channel blockers or angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxazosin mesylate tablets is contraindicated in patients with a known sensitivity to quinazolines ( e . g . , prazosin , terazosin ) , doxazosin , or any of the inert ingredients .
WARNINGS Syncope and " First - dose " Effect : Doxazosin , like other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents , can cause marked hypotension , especially in the upright position , with syncope and other postural symptoms such as dizziness .
Marked orthostatic effects are most common with the first dose but can also occur when there is a dosage increase , or if therapy is interrupted for more than a few days .
To decrease the likelihood of excessive hypotension and syncope , it is essential that treatment be initiated with the 1 mg dose .
The 2 , 4 , and 8 mg tablets are not for initial therapy .
Dosage should then be adjusted slowly ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) with evaluations and increases in dose every two weeks to the recommended dose .
Additional antihypertensive agents should be added with caution .
Patients being titrated with doxazosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur , during both the day and night .
In an early investigational study of the safety and tolerance of increasing daily doses of doxazosin in normotensives beginning at 1 mg / day , only 2 of 6 subjects could tolerate more than 2 mg / day without experiencing symptomatic postural hypotension .
In another study of 24 healthy normotensive male subjects receiving initial doses of 2 mg / day of doxazosin , seven ( 29 % ) of the subjects experienced symptomatic postural hypotension between 0 . 5 and 6 hours after the first dose necessitating termination of the study .
In this study , 2 of the normotensive subjects experienced syncope .
Subsequent trials in hypertensive patients always began doxazosin dosing at 1 mg / day resulting in a 4 % incidence of postural side effects at 1 mg / day with no cases of syncope .
In multiple dose clinical trials in hypertension involving over 1500 hypertensive patients with dose titration every one to two weeks , syncope was reported in 0 . 7 % of patients .
None of these events occurred at the starting dose of 1 mg and 1 . 2 % ( 8 / 664 ) occurred at 16 mg / day .
In placebo - controlled , clinical trials in BPH , 3 out of 665 patients ( 0 . 5 % ) taking doxazosin reported syncope .
Two of the patients were taking 1 mg doxazosin , while one patient was taking 2 mg doxazosin when syncope occurred .
In the open - label , long - term extension follow - up of approximately 450 BPH patients , there were 3 reports of syncope ( 0 . 7 % ) .
One patient was taking 2 mg , one patient was taking 8 mg and one patient was taking 12 mg when syncope occurred .
In a clinical pharmacology study , one subject receiving 2 mg experienced syncope .
If syncope occurs , the patient should be placed in a recumbent position and treated supportively as necessary .
Priapism : Rarely ( probably less frequently than once in every several thousand patients ) , alpha1 antagonists , including doxazosin , have been associated with priapism ( painful penile erection , sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation ) .
Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated , patients must be advised about the seriousness of the condition ( see PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Prostate Cancer : Carcinoma of the prostate causes many of the symptoms associated with BPH and the two disorders frequently co - exist .
Carcinoma of the prostate should therefore be ruled out prior to commencing therapy with doxazosin mesylate .
Cataract Surgery : Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on or previously treated with alpha1 blockers .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ' s surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
Orthostatic Hypotension : While syncope is the most severe orthostatic effect of doxazosin mesylate , other symptoms of lowered blood pressure , such as dizziness , lightheadedness , or vertigo can occur , especially at initiation of therapy or at the time of dose increases .
a ) Hypertension These symptoms were common in clinical trials in hypertension , occurring in up to 23 % of all patients treated and causing discontinuation of therapy in about 2 % .
In placebo - controlled titration trials in hypertension , orthostatic effects were minimized by beginning therapy at 1 mg per day and titrating every two weeks to 2 , 4 , or 8 mg per day .
There was an increased frequency of orthostatic effects in patients given 8 mg or more , 10 % , compared to 5 % at 1 - 4 mg and 3 % in the placebo group .
b ) Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia In placebo - controlled trials in BPH , the incidence of orthostatic hypotension with doxazosin was 0 . 3 % and did not increase with increasing dosage ( to 8 mg / day ) .
The incidence of discontinuations due to hypotensive or orthostatic symptoms was 3 . 3 % with doxazosin and 1 % with placebo .
The titration interval in these studies was one to two weeks .
Patients in occupations in which orthostatic hypotension could be dangerous should be treated with particular caution .
As alpha1 antagonists can cause orthostatic effects , it is important to evaluate standing blood pressure two minutes after standing and patients should be advised to exercise care when arising from a supine or sitting position .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if this measure is inadequate , volume expansion with intravenous fluids or vasopressor therapy may be used .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses of doxazosin mesylate Information for Patients ( See patient package insert ) : Patients should be made aware of the possibility of syncopal and orthostatic symptoms , especially at the initiation of therapy , and urged to avoid driving or hazardous tasks for 24 hours after the first dose , after a dosage increase , and after interruption of therapy when treatment is resumed .
They should be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur during initiation of doxazosin therapy .
They should also be advised of the need to sit or lie down when symptoms of lowered blood pressure occur , although these symptoms are not always orthostatic , and to be careful when rising from a sitting or lying position .
If dizziness , lightheadedness , or palpitations are bothersome they should be reported to the physician , so that dose adjustment can be considered .
Patients should also be told that drowsiness or somnolence can occur with doxazosin mesylate or any selective alpha1 adrenoceptor antagonist , requiring caution in people who must drive or operate heavy machinery .
Patients should be advised about the possibility of priapism as a result of treatment with alpha1 antagonists .
Patients should know that this adverse event is very rare .
If they experience priapism , it should be brought to immediate medical attention for if not treated promptly it can lead to permanent erectile dysfunction ( impotence ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Doxazosin mesylate does not affect the plasma concentration of prostate specific antigen in patients treated for up to 3 years .
Both doxazosin , an alpha1 inhibitor , and finasteride , a 5 - alpha reductase inhibitor , are highly protein bound and hepatically metabolized .
There is no definitive controlled clinical experience on the concomitant use of alpha1 inhibitors and 5 - alpha reductase inhibitors at this time .
Impaired Liver Function : Doxazosin mesylate should be administered with caution to patients with evidence of impaired hepatic function or to patients receiving drugs known to influence hepatic metabolism ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Leukopenia / Neutropenia : Analysis of hematologic data from hypertensive patients receiving doxazosin mesylate in controlled hypertension clinical trials showed that the mean WBC ( N = 474 ) and mean neutrophil counts ( N = 419 ) were decreased by 2 . 4 % and 1 . 0 % , respectively , compared to placebo , a phenomenon seen with other alpha blocking drugs .
In BPH patients the incidence of clinically significant WBC abnormalities was 0 . 4 % ( 2 / 459 ) with doxazosin mesylate and 0 % ( 0 / 147 ) with placebo , with no statistically significant difference between the two treatment groups .
A search through a data base of 2400 hypertensive patients and 665 BPH patients revealed 4 hypertensives in which drug - related neutropenia could not be ruled out and one BPH patient in which drug related leukopenia could not be ruled out .
Two hypertensives had a single low value on the last day of treatment .
Two hypertensives had stable , non - progressive neutrophil counts in the 1000 / mm3 range over periods of 20 and 40 weeks .
One BPH patient had a decrease from a WBC count of 4800 / mm3 to 2700 / mm3 at the end of the study ; there was no evidence of clinical impairment .
In cases where follow - up was available the WBCs and neutrophil counts returned to normal after discontinuation of doxazosin mesylate .
No patients became symptomatic as a result of the low WBC or neutrophil counts .
Drug Interactions : Most ( 98 % ) of plasma doxazosin is protein bound .
In vitro data in human plasma indicate that doxazosin mesylate has no effect on protein binding of digoxin , warfarin , phenytoin or indomethacin .
There is no information on the effect of other highly plasma protein bound drugs on doxazosin binding .
Doxazosin mesylate has been administered without any evidence of an adverse drug interaction to patients receiving thiazide diuretics , beta - blocking agents , and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
In a placebo - controlled trial in normal volunteers , the administration of a single 1 mg dose of doxazosin on day 1 of a four - day regimen of oral cimetidine ( 400 mg twice daily ) resulted in a 10 % increase in mean AUC of doxazosin ( p = 0 . 006 ) , and a slight but not statistically significant increase in mean Cmax and mean half - life of doxazosin .
The clinical significance of this increase in doxazosin AUC is unknown .
In clinical trials , doxazosin mesylate tablets have been administered to patients on a variety of concomitant medications ; while no formal interaction studies have been conducted , no interactions were observed .
Doxazosin mesylate tablets have been used with the following drugs or drug classes : 1 ) analgesic / anti - inflammatory ( e . g . , acetaminophen , aspirin , codeine and codeine combinations , ibuprofen , indomethacin ) ; 2 ) antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin , trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole , amoxicillin ) ; 3 ) antihistamines ( e . g . , chlorpheniramine ) ; 4 ) cardiovascular agents ( e . g . , atenolol , hydrochlorothiazide , propranolol ) ; 5 ) corticosteroids ; 6 ) gastrointestinal agents ( e . g . , antacids ) ; 7 ) hypoglycemics and endocrine drugs ; 8 ) sedatives and tranquilizers ( e . g . , diazepam ) ; 9 ) cold and flu remedies .
Concomitant administration of dosazosin mesylate with a phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Cardiac Toxicity in Animals : An increased incidence of myocardial necrosis or fibrosis was displayed by Sprague - Dawley rats after 6 months of dietary administration at concentrations calculated to provide 80 mg doxazosin / kg / day and after 12 months of dietary administration at concentrations calculated to provide 40 mg doxazosin / kg / day ( AUC exposure in rats 8 times the human AUC exposure with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) .
Myocardial fibrosis was observed in both rats and mice treated in the same manner with 40 mg doxazosin / kg / day for 18 months ( exposure 8 times human AUC exposure in rats and somewhat equivalent to human Cmax exposure in mice ) .
No cardiotoxicity was observed at lower doses ( up to 10 or 20 mg / kg / day , depending on the study ) in either species .
These lesions were not observed after 12 months of oral dosing in dogs at maximum doses of 20 mg / kg / day [ maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) in dogs 14 times the Cmax exposure in humans receiving a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ] and in Wistar rats at doses of 100 mg / kg / day ( Cmax exposures 15 times human Cmax exposure with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) .
There is no evidence that similar lesions occur in humans .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Chronic dietary administration ( up to 24 months ) of doxazosin mesylate at maximally tolerated doses of 40 mg / kg / day in rats and 120 mg / kg / day in mice revealed no evidence of carcinogenic potential .
The highest doses evaluated in the rat and mouse studies are associated with AUCs ( a measure of systemic exposure ) that are 8 times and 4 times , respectively , the human AUC at a dose of 16 mg / day .
Mutagenicity studies revealed no drug - or metabolite - related effects at either chromosomal or subchromosomal levels .
Studies in rats showed reduced fertility in males treated with doxazosin at oral doses of 20 ( but not 5 or 10 ) mg / kg / day , about 4 times the AUC exposures obtained with a 12 mg / day human dose .
This effect was reversible within two weeks of drug withdrawal .
There have been no reports of any effects of doxazosin on male fertility in humans .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects , Pregnancy Category C . Studies in pregnant rabbits and rats at daily oral doses of up to 41 and 20 mg / kg , respectively ( plasma drug concentrations 10 and 4 times human Cmax and AUC exposures with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) , have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
A dosage regimen of 82 mg / kg / day in the rabbit was associated with reduced fetal survival .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , doxazosin mesylate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Radioactivity was found to cross the placenta following oral administration of labelled doxazosin to pregnant rats .
Nonteratogenic Effects : In peri - postnatal studies in rats , postnatal development at maternal doses of 40 or 50 mg / kg / day of doxazosin ( 8 times human AUC exposure with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) was delayed as evidenced by slower body weight gain and slightly later appearance of anatomical features and reflexes .
Nursing Mothers : Studies in lactating rats given a single oral dose of 1 mg / kg of [ 2 - 14 C ] - doxazosin mesylate indicate that doxazosin accumulates in rat breast milk with a maximum concentration about 20 times greater than the maternal plasma concentration .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when doxazosin mesylate is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of doxazosin mesylate as an antihypertensive agent have not been established in children .
Geriatric Use : The safety and effectiveness profile of doxazosin mesylate in BPH was similar in the elderly ( age ≥ 65 years ) and younger ( age < 65 years ) patients .
For hypertension .
Clinical studies of doxazosin mesylate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The incidence of adverse events has been ascertained from worldwide clinical trials in 965 BPH patients .
The incidence rates presented below ( Table 3 ) are based on combined data from seven placebo - controlled trials involving once daily administration of doxazosin mesylate in doses of 1 - 16 mg in hypertensives and 0 . 5 - 8 mg in normotensives .
The adverse events when the incidence in the doxazosin mesylate group was at least 1 % are summarized in Table 3 .
No significant difference in the incidence of adverse events compared to placebo was seen except for dizziness , fatigue , hypotension , edema and dyspnea .
Dizziness and dyspnea appeared to be dose - related .
Table 3 ADVERSE REACTIONS DURING PLACEBO - CONTROLLED STUDIES BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA Body System Doxazosin ( N = 665 ) Placebo ( N = 300 ) BODY AS A WHOLE Back Pain 1 . 8 % 2 . 0 % Chest Pain 1 . 2 % 0 . 7 % Fatigue 8 . 0 % [ 1 ] 1 . 7 % Headache 9 . 9 % 9 . 0 % Influenza - like symptoms 1 . 1 % 1 . 0 % Pain 2 . 0 % 1 . 0 % CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Hypotension 1 . 7 % null 0 . 0 % Palpitation 1 . 2 % 0 . 3 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 % 2 . 0 % Diarrhea 2 . 3 % 2 . 0 % Dyspepsia 1 . 7 % 1 . 7 % Nausea 1 . 5 % 0 . 7 % METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS Edema 2 . 7 % null 0 . 7 % NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness [ 2 ] 15 . 6 % null 9 . 0 % Mouth Dry 1 . 4 % 0 . 3 % Somnolence 3 . 0 % 1 . 0 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea 2 . 6 % null 0 . 3 % Respiratory Disorder 1 . 1 % 0 . 7 % SPECIAL SENSES Vision Abnormal 1 . 4 % 0 . 7 % UROGENITAL SYSTEM Impotence 1 . 1 % 1 . 0 % Urinary Tract Infection 1 . 4 % 2 . 3 % SKIN & APPENDAGES Sweating Increased 1 . 1 % 1 . 0 % PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Anxiety 1 . 1 % 0 . 3 % Insomnia 1 . 2 % 0 . 3 % [ 1 ] p ≤ 0 . 05 for treatment differences [ 2 ] Includes vertigo In these placebo - controlled studies of 665 doxazosin mesylate patients , treated for a mean of 85 days , additional adverse reactions have been reported .
These are less than 1 % and not distinguishable from those that occurred in the placebo group .
Adverse reactions with an incidence of less than 1 % but of clinical interest are ( doxazosin mesylate vs . placebo ) : Cardiovascular System : angina pectoris ( 0 . 6 % vs . 0 . 7 % ) , postural hypotension ( 0 . 3 % vs . 0 . 3 % ) , syncope ( 0 . 5 % vs . 0 . 0 % ) , tachycardia ( 0 . 9 % vs . 0 . 0 % ) ; Urogenital System : dysuria ( 0 . 5 % vs . 1 . 3 % ) , and Psychiatric Disorders : libido decreased ( 0 . 8 % vs . 0 . 3 % ) .
The safety profile in patients treated for up to three years was similar to that in the placebo - controlled studies .
The majority of adverse experiences with doxazosin mesylate were mild .
B . Hypertension Doxazosin mesylate has been administered to approximately 4000 hypertensive patients , of whom 1679 were included in the hypertension clinical development program .
In that program , minor adverse effects were frequent , but led to discontinuation of treatment in only 7 % of patients .
In placebo - controlled studies adverse effects occurred in 49 % and 40 % of patients in the doxazosin and placebo groups , respectively , and led to discontinuation in 2 % of patients in each group .
The major reasons for discontinuation were postural effects ( 2 % ) , edema , malaise / fatigue , and some heart rate disturbance , each about 0 . 7 % .
In controlled hypertension clinical trials directly comparing doxazosin mesylate to placebo there was no significant difference in the incidence of side effects , except for dizziness ( including postural ) , weight gain , somnolence and fatigue / malaise .
Postural effects and edema appeared to be dose related .
The prevalence rates presented below are based on combined data from placebo - controlled studies involving once daily administration of doxazosin at doses ranging from 1 - 16 mg .
Table 4 summarizes those adverse experiences ( possibly / probably related ) reported for patients in these hypertension studies where the prevalence rate in the doxazosin group was at least 0 . 5 % or where the reaction is of particular interest .
Table 4 ADVERSE REACTIONS DURING PLACEBO - CONTROLLED STUDIES HYPERTENSION DOXAZOSIN ( N = 339 ) PLACEBO ( N = 336 ) CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Dizziness 19 % 9 % Vertigo 2 % 1 % Postural Hypotension 0 . 3 % 0 % Edema 4 % 3 % Palpitation 2 % 3 % Arrhythmia 1 % 0 % Hypotension 1 % 0 % Tachycardia 0 . 3 % 1 % Peripheral Ischemia 0 . 3 % 0 % SKIN & APPENDAGES Rash 1 % 1 % Pruritus 1 % 1 % MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM Arthralgia / Arthritis 1 % 0 % Muscle Weakness 1 % 0 % Myalgia 1 % 0 % CENTRAL & PERIPHERAL N . S Headache 14 % 16 % Paresthesia 1 % 1 % Kinetic Disorders 1 % 0 % Ataxia 1 % 0 % Hypertonia 1 % 0 % Muscle Cramps 1 % 0 % AUTONOMIC Mouth Dry 2 % 2 % Flushing 1 % 0 % SPECIAL SENSES Vision Abnormal 2 % 1 % Conjunctivitis / Eye Pain 1 % 1 % Tinnitus 1 % 0 . 3 % PSYCHIATRIC Somnolence 5 % 1 % Nervousness 2 % 2 % Depression 1 % 1 % Insomnia 1 % 1 % Sexual Dysfunction 2 % 1 % GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea 3 % 4 % Diarrhea 2 % 3 % Constipation 1 % 1 % Dyspepsia 1 % 1 % Flatulence 1 % 1 % Abdominal Pain 0 % 2 % Vomiting 0 % 1 % RESPIRATORY Rhinitis 3 % 1 % Dyspnea 1 % 1 % Epistaxis 1 % 0 % URINARY Polyuria 2 % 0 % Urinary Incontinence 1 % 0 % Micturition Frequency 0 % 2 % GENERAL Fatigue / Malaise 12 % 6 % Chest Pain 2 % 2 % Asthenia 1 % 1 % Face Edema 1 % 0 % Pain 2 % 2 % Additional adverse reactions have been reported , but these are , in general , not distinguishable from symptoms that might have occurred in the absence of exposure to doxazosin .
The following adverse reactions occurred with a frequency of between 0 . 5 % and 1 % : syncope , hypoesthesia , increased sweating , agitation , increased weight .
The following additional adverse reactions were reported by < 0 . 5 % of 3960 patients who received doxazosin in controlled or open , short - or long - term clinical studies , including international studies .
Cardiovascular System : angina pectoris , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident ; Autonomic Nervous System : pallor ; Metabolic : thirst , gout , hypokalemia ; Hematopoietic : lymphadenopathy , purpura ; Reproductive System : breast pain ; Skin Disorders : alopecia , dry skin , eczema ; Central Nervous System : paresis , tremor , twitching , confusion , migraine , impaired concentration ; Psychiatric : paroniria , amnesia , emotional lability , abnormal thinking , depersonalization ; Special Senses : parosmia , earache , taste perversion , photophobia , abnormal lacrimation ; Gastrointestinal System : increased appetite , anorexia , fecal incontinence , gastroenteritis ; Respiratory System : bronchospasm , sinusitis , coughing , pharyngitis ; Urinary System : renal calculus ; General Body System : hot flushes , back pain , infection , fever / rigors , decreased weight , influenza - like symptoms .
Doxazosin mesylate has not been associated with any clinically significant changes in routine biochemical tests .
No clinically relevant adverse effects were noted on serum potassium , serum glucose , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , creatinine or liver function tests .
Doxazosin mesylate has been associated with decreases in white blood cell counts ( see PRECAUTIONS , Leukopenia / Neutropenia ) .
In post - marketing experience the following additional adverse reactions have been reported : Autonomic Nervous System : priapism ; Central Nervous System : hypoesthesia ; Endocrine System : gynecomastia ; Gastrointestinal System : vomiting ; General Body System : allergic reaction ; Heart Rate / Rhythm : bradycardia ; Hematopoietic : leukopenia , thrombocytopenia ; Liver / Biliary System : hepatitis , hepatitis cholestatic ; Respiratory System : bronchospasm aggravated ; Skin Disorders : urticaria ; Special Senses : Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( see PRECAUTIONS , Cataract Surgery ) ; Urinary System : hematuria , micturition disorder , micturition frequency , nocturia .
OVERDOSAGE Experience with doxazosin mesylate overdosage is limited .
Two adolescents who each intentionally ingested 40 mg doxazosin mesylate with diclofenac or acetaminophen , were treated with gastric lavage with activated charcoal and made full recoveries .
A two - year - old child who accidentally ingested 4 mg doxazosin mesylate was treated with gastric lavage and remained normotensive during the five - hour emergency room observation period .
A six - month - old child accidentally received a crushed 1 mg tablet of doxazosin mesylate and was reported to have been drowsy .
A 32 - year - old female with chronic renal failure , epilepsy and depression intentionally ingested 60 mg doxazosin mesylate ( blood level 0 . 9 µg / mL ; normal values in hypertensives = 0 . 02 µg / mL ) ; death was attributed to a grand mal seizure resulting from hypotension .
A 39 - year - old female who ingested 70 mg doxazosin mesylate , alcohol and flurazepam developed hypotension which responded to fluid therapy .
The oral LD50 of doxazosin is greater than 1000 mg / kg in mice and rats .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of fluid .
As doxazosin is highly protein bound , dialysis would not be indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
The initial dosage of doxazosin mesylate tablets in patients with hypertension and / or BPH is 1 mg given once daily in the a . m . or p . m .
This starting dose is intended to minimize the frequency of postural hypotension and first dose syncope associated with doxazosin mesylate tablets .
Postural effects are most likely to occur between 2 and 6 hours after a dose .
Therefore blood pressure measurements should be taken during this time period after the first dose and with each increase in dose .
If doxazosin mesylate tablets administration is discontinued for several days , therapy should be restarted using the initial dosing regimen .
Concomitant administration of doxazosin mesylate with a PDE - 5 inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension ; therefore , PDE - 5 inhibitor therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose in patients taking doxazosin mesylate tablets .
A . BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA1 - 8 mg once daily .
The initial dosage of doxazosin mesylate tablets is 1 mg , given once daily in the a . m . or p . m . Depending on the individual patient ’ s urodynamics and BPH symptomatology , dosage may then be increased to 2 mg and thereafter to 4 mg and 8 mg once daily , the maximum recommended dose for BPH .
The recommended titration interval is 1 - 2 weeks .
Blood pressure should be evaluated routinely in these patients .
B . HYPERTENSION1 - 16 mg once daily .
The initial dosage of doxazosin mesylate tablets is 1 mg given once daily .
Depending on the individual patient ’ s standing blood pressure response ( based on measurements taken at 2 - 6 hours post - dose and 24 hours post - dose ) , dosage may then be increased to 2 mg and thereafter if necessary to 4 mg , 8 mg and 16 mg to achieve the desired reduction in blood pressure .
Increases in dose beyond 4 mg increase the likelihood of excessive postural effects including syncope , postural dizziness / vertigo and postural hypotension .
At a titrated dose of 16 mg once daily the frequency of postural effects is about 12 % compared to 3 % for placebo .
HOW SUPPLIED Doxazosin mesylate is available as colored tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet contains doxazosin mesylate equivalent to 1 mg ( white ) , 2 mg ( yellow ) , 4 mg ( orange ) or 8 mg ( green ) of the active constituent , doxazosin .
Doxazosin Mesylate Tablets are available as 1 mg , white tablet , oval shape , partially bisected on one side , debossed with " 1 " to the left and " mg " to the right of the partial bisection ; and debossed with " ML - P16 " on the other side ; 2 mg , yellow tablet , oval shape , partially bisected on one side , debossed with " 2 " to the left and " mg " to the right of the partial bisection ; and debossed with " ML - P17 " on the other side ; 4 mg , orange tablet , oval shape , partially bisected on one side , debossed with " 4 " to the left and " mg " to the right of the partial bisection ; and debossed with " ML - P18 " on the other side ; and 8 mg , green tablet , oval shape , partially bisected on one side , debossed with " 8 " to the left and " mg " to the right of the partial bisection ; and debossed with " ML - P19 " on the other side .
Bottles of 90 : 1 mg NDC 10544 - 629 - 90 4 mg NDC 10544 - 292 - 90 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . }
Manufactured For : Dava Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA By : Patheon Puerto Rico , Inc .
Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 , USA Marketed / Packaged by : Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
North Blenheim , NY 12131 , ( USA ) Revised 10 / 13 PATIENT INFORMATION ABOUT DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE FOR BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA ( BPH ) Read this leaflet : • • before you start taking Doxazosin Mesylate • • each time you get a new prescription .
You and your doctor should discuss this treatment and your BPH symptoms before you start taking Doxazosin Mesylate and at your regular checkups .
This leaflet does NOT take the place of discussions with your doctor .
Doxazosin Mesylate is used to treat both benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
This leaflet describes Doxazosin Mesylate as treatment for BPH ( although you may be taking Doxazosin Mesylate for both your BPH and high blood pressure ) .
What is BPH ?
BPH is an enlargement of the prostate gland .
This gland surrounds the tube that drains the urine from the bladder .
The symptoms of BPH can be caused by a tensing of the enlarged muscle in the prostate gland which blocks the passage of urine .
This can lead to such symptoms as : • • a weak or start - and - stop stream when urinating • • a feeling that the bladder is not completely emptied after urination • • a delay or difficulty in the beginning of urination • • a need to urinate often during the day and especially at night • • a feeling that you must urinate immediately .
Treatment Options for BPH The four main treatment options for BPH are : • • If you are not bothered by your symptoms , you and your doctor may decide on a program of “ watchful waiting . ”
It is not an active treatment like taking medication or surgery but involves having regular checkups to see if your condition is getting worse or causing problems .
• • Treatment with Doxazosin Mesylate or other similar drugs .
Doxazosin Mesylate is the medication your doctor has prescribed for you .
See “ What Doxazosin Mesylate Does , ” below .
• • Treatment with the medication class of 5 - alpha reductase inhibitors ( e . g . , Proscar ® ) .
It can cause the prostate to shrink .
It may take 6 months or more for the full benefit of finasteride to be seen .
• • Various surgical procedures .
Your doctor can describe these procedures to you .
The best procedure for you depends on your BPH symptoms and medical condition .
What DoxazosinMesylate Does Doxazosin Mesylate works on a specific type of muscle found in the prostate , causing it to relax .
This in turn decreases the pressure within the prostate , thus improving the flow of urine and your symptoms .
• • Doxazosin Mesylate helps relieve the symptoms of BPH ( weak stream , start - and - stop stream , a feeling that your bladder is not completely empty , delay in begining of urination , need to urinate often during the day and especially at night , and feeling that you must urinate immediately ) .
It does not change the size of the prostate .
The prostate may continue to grow ; however , a larger prostate is not necessarily related to more symptoms or to worse symptoms .
Doxazosin Mesylate can decrease your symptoms and improve urinary flow , without decreasing the size of the prostate .
• • If Doxazosin Mesylate is helping you , you should notice an effect within 1 to 2 weeks after you start your medication .
Doxazosin Mesylate has been studied in over 900 patients for up to 2 years and the drug has been shown to continue to work during long - term treatment .
Even though you take Doxazosin Mesylate and it may help you , Doxazosin Mesylate may not prevent the need for surgery in the future .
• • Doxazosin Mesylate does not affect PSA levels .
PSA is the abbreviation for Prostate Specific Antigen .
Your doctor may have done a blood test called PSA .
You may want to ask your doctor more about this if you have had a PSA test done .
Other Important Facts • • You should see an improvement of your symptoms within 1 to 2 weeks .
In addition to your other regular checkups you will need to continue seeing your doctor regularly to check your progress regarding your BPH and to monitor your blood pressure .
• • Doxazosin Mesylate is not a treatment for prostate cancer .
Your doctor has prescribed Doxazosin Mesylate for your BPH and not for prostate cancer ; however , a man can have BPH and prostate cancer at the same time .
Doctors usually recommend that men be checked for prostate cancer once a year when they turn 50 ( or 40 if a family member has had prostate cancer ) .
A higher incidence of prostate cancer has been noted in men of African - American descent .
These checks should continue even if you are taking Doxazosin Mesylate .
How to Take Doxazosin Mesylate and What You Should Know While Taking Doxazosin Mesylate for BPH DoxazosinMesylate Can Cause a Sudden Drop in Blood Pressure After the VERY FIRST DOSE .
You may feel dizzy , faint or “ light - headed , ” especially after you stand up from a lying or sitting position .
This is more likely to occur after you ’ ve taken the first few doses or if you increase your dose , but can occur at any time while you are taking the drug .
It can also occur if you stop taking the drug and then restart treatment .
If you feel very dizzy , faint or “ light - headed ” you should contact your doctor .
Your doctor will discuss with you how often you need to visit and how often your blood pressure should be checked .
Your blood pressure should be checked when you start taking Doxazosin Mesylate even if you do not have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Your doctor will discuss with you the details of how blood pressure is measured .
Blood Pressure Measurement : Whatever equipment is used , it is usual for your blood pressure to be measured in the following way : measure your blood pressure after lying quietly on your back for five minutes .
Then , after standing for two minutes measure your blood pressure again .
Your doctor will discuss with you what other times during the day your blood pressure should be taken , such as two to six hours after a dose , before bedtime or after waking up in the morning .
Note that moderate to high - intensity exercise can , over a period of time , lower your average blood pressure .
You can take Doxazosin Mesylate either in the morning or at bedtime and it will be equally effective .
If you take Doxazosin Mesylate at bedtime but need to get up from bed to go to the bathroom , get up slowly and cautiously until you are sure how the medication affects you .
It is important to get up slowly from a chair or bed at any time until you learn how you react to Doxazosin Mesylate .
You should not drive or do any hazardous tasks until you are used to the effects of the medication .
If you begin to feel dizzy , sit or lie down until you feel better .
• • You will start with a 1 mg dose of Doxazosin Mesylate once daily .
Then the once daily dose will be increased as your body gets used to the effects of the medication .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about how to take Doxazosin Mesylate .
You must take it every day at the dose prescribed .
Talk with your doctor if you don ’ t take it for a few days for some reason ; you may then need to restart the medication at a 1 mg dose , increase your dose gradually and again be cautious about possible dizziness .
Do not share Doxazosin Mesylate with anyone else ; it was prescribed only for you .
• • Other side effects you could have while taking Doxazosin Mesylate , in addition to lowering of the blood pressure , include dizziness , fatigue ( tiredness ) , swelling of the feet and shortness of breath .
Most side effects are mild .
However , you should discuss any unexpected effects you notice with your doctor .
• • WARNING : Extremely rarely , Doxazosin Mesylate and similar medications have caused painful erection of the penis , sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation .
This condition is serious , and if untreated it can be followed by permanent inability to have an erection .
If you have a prolonged abnormal erection , call your doctor or go to an emergency room as soon as possible .
• • Tell your surgeon if you take or have taken Doxazosin Mesylate if you plan to have surgery for cataracts ( clouding of the eye ) .
During cataract surgery , a condition called Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) can happen if you take or have taken Doxazosin Mesylate .
• • If you use Doxazosin Mesylate with an oral erectile dysfunction medicine ( phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor ) , it can cause a sudden drop in your blood pressure and you can become dizzy or faint .
Talk with your healthcare provider before using PDE - 5 inhibitors .
• • Keep Doxazosin Mesylate and all medicines out of the reach of children .
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT DOXAZOSINMESYLATE AND BPH TALK WITH YOUR DOCTOR , NURSE , PHARMACIST OR OTHER HEALTH CARE PROVIDER .
Manufactured For : Dava Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA By : Patheon Puerto Rico , Inc .
Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 , USA Marketed / Packaged by : Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
North Blenheim , NY 12131 , ( USA ) Revised 10 / 13 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL 1 mg 1000 tablets NDC 10544 - 692 - 90 DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE TABLETS , USP 1 mg * 90 tablets ( White ) Rx only Note : Include one Patient Information Leaflet with each prescription .
* Each tablet contains : doxazosin mesylate equivalent to 1 mg doxazosin .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert .
This is a bulk package not intended for household use .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured For : Dava Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA By : Patheon Puerto Rico , Inc .
Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 , USA Marketed / Packaged by : Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
North Blenheim , NY 12131 , ( USA ) Revised 10 / 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL 4 mg 1000 tablets NDC 10544 - 292 - 90 DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE TABLETS , USP 4 mg * 90 tablets ( White ) Rx only Note : Include one Patient Information Leaflet with each prescription .
* Each tablet contains : doxazosin mesylate equivalent to 4 mg doxazosin .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert .
This is a bulk package not intended for household use .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured For : Dava Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA By : Patheon Puerto Rico , Inc .
Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 , USA Marketed / Packaged by : Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
North Blenheim , NY 12131 , ( USA ) Revised 10 / 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
