1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AEMCOLO is a rifamycin antibacterial indicated for the treatment of travelers ' diarrhea caused by noninvasive strains of Escherichia coli in adults .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use : AEMCOLO is not recommended for use in patients with diarrhea complicated by fever and / or bloody stool or due to pathogens other than noninvasive strains of E . coli .
( 1 , 5 . 1 , 14 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AEMCOLO and other antibacterial drugs , AEMCOLO should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1 . 2 ) .
1 . 1 Travelers ' Diarrhea AEMCOLO is indicated for the treatment of travelers ' diarrhea ( TD ) caused by non - invasive strains of Escherichia coli in adults .
Limitations of Use AEMCOLO is not indicated in patients with diarrhea complicated by fever or bloody stool or due to pathogens other than noninvasive strains of Escherichia coli [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
1 . 2 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AEMCOLO and other antibacterial drugs , AEMCOLO should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage of AEMCOLO is 388 mg ( two tablets ) orally twice daily for three days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Take each dose with a glass of liquid .
Do NOT take AEMCOLO concomitantly with alcohol .
( 2 . 1 ) • AEMCOLO can be taken with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) • Swallow AEMCOLO tablets whole .
Do NOT crush , break or chew the tablets .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Basic Dosing Information The recommended dose of AEMCOLO is 388 mg ( two tablets ) orally twice daily ( in the morning and evening ) for three days .
Take each dose with a glass of liquid ( 6 - 8 ounces ) .
Do NOT take AEMCOLO concomitantly with alcohol .
AEMCOLO can be taken with or without food .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions AEMCOLO must be taken orally .
Swallow the tablets whole .
Do NOT crush , break or chew the delayed - release tablets .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AEMCOLO is a yellow - brown , ellipsoidal , film - coated , delayed - release tablet debossed on one side with " SV2 " .
Each delayed - release tablet contains 194 mg of rifamycin .
Delayed - Release Tablets : 194 mg rifamycin .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AEMCOLO is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to rifamycin , any of the other rifamycin class antimicrobial agents ( e . g . rifaximin ) , or any of the components in AEMCOLO .
AEMCOLO is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to rifamycin , any of the other rifamycin class antimicrobial agents ( e . g . rifaximin ) , or any of the components in AEMCOLO ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Persistent or Worsening Diarrhea Complicated by Fever and / or Bloody Stool : AEMCOLO was not shown to be effective in patients with diarrhea complicated by fever and / or bloody stool or diarrhea due to pathogens other than noninvasive strains of E . coli and is not recommended for use in such patients .
Discontinue use if diarrhea gets worse or persists more than 48 hours , and consider alternative antibacterial therapy .
( 1 .
5 . 1 ) • Clostridium difficile - associated Diarrhea : Evaluate if diarrhea occurs after therapy or does not improve or worsens during therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Persistent or Worsening of Diarrhea Complicated by Fever and / or Bloody Stool AEMCOLO was not shown to be effective in patients with diarrhea complicated by fever and / or bloody stool .
Patients with these conditions treated with AEMCOLO had prolonged time to last unformed stool ( TLUS ) .
The effectiveness of AEMCOLO in travelers ' diarrhea caused by pathogens other than E . coli has not been demonstrated .
AEMCOLO is not recommended for use in patients with diarrhea accompanied by fever or bloody stools or due to pathogens other than noninvasive strains of E . coli [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Discontinue AEMCOLO if diarrhea gets worse or persists more than 48 hours and consider alternative antibacterial therapy .
5 . 2 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon which may lead to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile may cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , specific antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and / or surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing AEMCOLO in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % ) are headache and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact RedHill Biopharma Inc . at 833 - ADR - HILL ( 833 - 237 - 4455 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of oral AEMCOLO 388 mg twice daily was assessed in 619 adults with travelers ' diarrhea in two controlled clinical trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) with 96 % of patients receiving three or four days of treatment .
These patients had a mean age of 36 . 2 years ( range 18 to 87 years ) with 7 % ≥ 65 years old ; 49 % were male , 84 % were White , and 4 % were Hispanic .
Discontinuation of AEMCOLO due to adverse reactions occurred in 1 % of patients .
The most frequent adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of AEMCOLO were abdominal pain ( 0 . 5 % ) and pyrexia ( 0 . 3 % ) .
In Trial 1 ( placebo - controlled ) , the adverse reaction that occurred in at least 2 % of AEMCOLO - treated patients ( n = 199 ) and with an incidence higher than in the placebo group was constipation ( 3 . 5 % AEMCOLO , 1 . 5 % placebo ) In Trial 2 ( active comparator ) , the adverse reaction that occurred in at least 2 % of AEMCOLO - treated patients ( n = 420 ) and with an incidence higher than in the ciprofloxacin group was headache ( 3 . 3 % AEMCOLO , 1 . 9 % ciprofloxacin ) Adverse reactions reported in < 2 % of patients receiving AEMCOLO 388 mg twice daily with a higher incidence than the comparator group was dyspepsia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinical Drug - Drug Interactions ( DDIs ) have been studied .
Based on the minimal systemic rifamycin concentrations observed after the recommended dose of AEMCOLO , clinically relevant DDIs are not expected [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on AEMCOLO use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Systemic absorption of AEMCOLO in humans is negligible following oral administration of the recommended dose of AEMCOLO [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Due to the negligible systemic exposure , it is not expected that maternal use of AEMCOLO will result in fetal exposure to the drug .
In animal reproduction studies , no malformations were observed in pregnant rats or rabbits at exposures 25 , 000 and 500 times ( based on AUC ) , respectively , the human exposure achieved with the recommended clinical dose of AEMCOLO .
Treatment of pregnant rats with AEMCOLO at more than 1 , 000 times the maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and 25 , 000 times the systemic exposure ( based on AUC ) during the period of organogenesis resulted in maternal toxicity , decreased fetal weight , and variations in diaphragm formation .
Similarly , treatment of pregnant rabbits with AEMCOLO at more than 10 times the maximum human plasma concentration ( Cmax ) , resulted in maternal toxicity , decreased fetal weight , and slightly delayed fetal ossifications [ See Data ] .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Animal Data Embryofetal toxicity studies in rats and rabbits did not show malformations up to the maximum tested doses of 855 and 85 . 5 mg / kg , ( 25 , 000 and 500 times greater plasma exposure based on AUC ) , respectively , of rifamycin given orally during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 - 17 / 18 ) .
In rats , the high dose of 855 mg / kg / day caused reduction in maternal food consumption , reduced fetal weight and a higher number of fetuses with thin tendinous diaphragm .
In rabbits , the high dose of 85 . 5 mg / kg / day caused a reduction in food consumption and bodyweight gain in pregnant dams , as well as reduced fetal weights and slight delay in ossification , including slightly higher incidences of fetuses with skull suture bone variations , enlarged skull fontanelle and incompletely ossified digit 5 medial phalanx of both forelimbs .
No adverse fetal effects were observed in rats and rabbits administered lower doses of oral rifamycin .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of AEMCOLO in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Systemic absorption of AEMCOLO in humans is negligible following oral administration of the recommended dose of AEMCOLO ; therefore , exposure to a breastfed infant through breastmilk is expected to be negligible [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There are no animal lactation data following oral rifamycin administration .
Following single intravenous injection of rifamycin to lactating ewes , rifamycin has been shown to pass into milk . 1 The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for AEMCOLO and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed infant from AEMCOLO or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of AEMCOLO has not been established in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age with travelers ' diarrhea .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies with AEMCOLO for travelers ' diarrhea did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of AEMCOLO in patients with impaired renal function has not been studied .
Given the minimal systemic exposure of rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) and minor role of renal excretion in elimination of rifamycin , renal impairment is not expected to have a clinically meaningful effect on rifamycin systemic exposure necessitating a dose adjustment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of AEMCOLO in patients with impaired hepatic function has not been studied .
Given the minimal systemic exposure of rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) hepatic impairment is not expected to have a clinically meaningful effect on rifamycin systemic exposure necessitating a dose adjustment .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with AEMCOLO .
In the case of overdose , discontinue AEMCOLO , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
11 DESCRIPTION AEMCOLO , delayed - release tablet , for oral administration , contains 194 mg of rifamycin equivalent to 200 mg of rifamycin sodium .
Rifamycin sodium is a rifamycin antibacterial .
It is designated chemically as : Sodium ( 2 S , 12 Z , 14 E , 16 S , 17 S , 18 R , 19 R , 20 R , 21 S , 22 R , 23 S , 24 E ) - 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 , 9 , 17 , 19 - tetrahydroxy - 23 - methoxy - 2 , 4 , 12 , 16 , 18 , 20 , 22 - heptamethyl - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 1 , 2 - dihydro - 2 , 7 - ( epoxypentadeca [ 1 , 11 , 13 ] trienimino ) naphtho [ 2 , 1 - b ] furan - 5 - olate .
Its empirical formula is C37H46NNaO12 .
The molecular weight is 720 g / mol .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rifamycin sodium is a fine or slightly granular powder , soluble in water , and freely soluble in anhydrous ethanol .
AEMCOLO , delayed - release tablets are enteric coated with a pH - resistant polymer film which breaks down above pH 7 .
The tablet core contains rifamycin .
The tablets are yellow brown and ellipsoidal .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : ammonio methacrylate copolymer ( Type B ) , ascorbic acid , glyceryl distearate , lecithin , magnesium stearate , mannitol , methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer ( 1 : 2 ) , polyethylene glycol 6000 , colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , titanium dioxide , triethylcitrate , yellow ferric oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Rifamycin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics AEMCOLO exposure - response relationships and time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma Concentrations In healthy adults receiving the recommended dose of 388 mg rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) twice daily for 3 days , the maximum observed rifamycin concentration in plasma was 8 . 72 ng / mL ( 6 hours after the last dose ) .
A majority ( 67 % ) of rifamycin concentrations in plasma were below the limit of quantification ( < 2 ng / mL ) at this time point .
Absorption Rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) has limited systemic exposure after oral administration of the recommended dosage .
Based on total urinary excretion data , bioavailability was < 0 . 1 % under fasting conditions .
Food Effect A food - effect study involving administration of AEMCOLO to healthy volunteers under a fasted state and with a meal ( approximately 1 , 000 kcal including 500 kcal from fat ) indicated that food decreased systemic exposure of rifamycin .
The decrease in systemic exposure of rifamycin is not expected to be clinically relevant [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distribution Plasma protein binding was approximately 80 % in vitro .
Binding was primarily to albumin and was inversely proportional to concentration .
Elimination The apparent half - life of orally administered rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) in plasma is unknown .
Metabolism Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) based metabolism of rifamycin was not observed in vitro .
Excretion After a single oral dose of 400 mg AEMCOLO ( 388 mg rifamycin base ) in fasting healthy adults , fecal excretion of rifamycin was on average 86 % of the nominal dose .
Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function have not been studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical drug - drug interaction studies of rifamycin ( taken as AEMCOLO ) have not been conducted .
In Vitro Transporter Studies where Drug Interaction Potential Was Not Further Evaluated Clinically Rifamycin is a substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and anticipated to be an inhibitor of P - gp and breast cancer resistant protein ( BCRP ) in the gut .
Rifamycin is an inhibitor of renal transporters organic anion transporter ( OAT ) 3 , multidrug and toxin extrusion ( MATE ) 1 , and MATE2 - K transporters in vitro , however , based on systemic concentrations of rifamycin observed after administration of the recommended dose , clinically relevant inhibition of these transporters in vivo is unlikely .
In Vitro Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Studies where Drug Interaction Potential Was Not Further Evaluated Clinically Rifamycin is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 and 3A4 / 5 in vitro , however , based on systemic concentrations of rifamycin observed after administration of the recommended dose clinically relevant inhibition of these enzymes in vivo is unlikely .
Rifamycin is an inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 but not CYP1A2 in vitro , however , based on systemic concentrations of rifamycin observed after administration of the recommended dose , clinically relevant induction of these enzymes in vivo is unlikely .
Rifamycin is not a substrate of CYPs 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3A4 / 5 .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Rifamycin belongs to the ansamycin class of antibacterial drugs and acts by inhibiting the beta - subunit of the bacterial DNA - dependent RNA polymerase , blocking one of the steps in DNA transcription .
This results in inhibition of bacterial synthesis and consequently growth of bacteria .
Resistance Resistance to rifamycin is associated with mutations in the RNA polymerase beta subunit .
Among E . coli strains , the spontaneous mutation frequency rate of rifamycin ranged from 10 - 6 to 10 - 10 at 4 × – 16 × MIC ; the mutation frequency was independent of rifamycin concentration .
Increases in the minimum inhibitory concentrations were observed both in vitro and while on treatment following exposure to rifamycin .
Cross - resistance between rifamycin and other ansamycins have been observed .
Antibacterial Activity Rifamycin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following pathogen both in vitro and in clinical studies of travelers ' diarrhea : Escherichia coli ( enterotoxigenic and enteroaggregative isolates ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted in animals with rifamycin .
Mutagenesis Rifamycin was not genotoxic in the bacterial reverse mutation assays , mouse lymphoma cell mutation assay , or mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility No fertility studies have been conducted in animals with rifamycin .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Travelers ' Diarrhea The efficacy of AEMCOLO given as 388 mg orally , taken two times a day , for 3 days was evaluated in one multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in adults with travelers ' diarrhea .
Trial 1 ( NCT01142089 ) was conducted at clinical sites in Guatemala and Mexico , and provides the primary evidence for the efficacy of AEMCOLO .
A second active - controlled trial ( Trial 2 – NCT01208922 ) conducted in India , Guatemala and Ecuador , provided supportive evidence for the efficacy of AEMCOLO .
Although patients with fever and / or bloody stool at baseline were to be excluded from both trials , 18 subjects treated with AEMCOLO had fever and bloody diarrhea at enrollment in Trial 2 .
Stool specimens were collected before treatment and 1 to 2 days following the end of treatment to identify enteric pathogens .
The predominant pathogen in both trials was E . coli .
The clinical efficacy of AEMCOLO was assessed using an endpoint of time to last unformed ( watery or soft ) stool ( TLUS ) before achieving clinical cure .
The endpoint of clinical cure was defined as two or fewer soft stools and minimal enteric symptoms at the beginning of a 24 - hour period or no unformed stools at the beginning of a 48 - hour period .
Kaplan - Meier estimates of TLUS for the intent - to - treat ( ITT ) Population , which includes all randomized subjects , in Trial 1 ( Figure 1 ) show that AEMCOLO significantly reduced the TLUS compared to placebo ( p = 0 . 0008 ) .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Estimates of Time to Last Unformed Stool ( TLUS ) in Trial 1 ( ITT Population ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 1 displays the median TLUS and the number of patients who achieved clinical cure for the ITT population in Trial 1 .
The median duration of diarrhea was significantly shorter in patients treated with AEMCOLO than in the placebo group .
More patients treated with AEMCOLO were classified as clinical cures than were those in the placebo group .
Table 1 : Clinical Response in Trial 1 ( ITT Population ) AEMCOLO ( N = 199 ) Placebo ( N = 65 ) Difference P value ITT = Intent - to - Treat ; TLUS = time to last unformed stool ( in hours ) Median TLUS ( hrs ) 46 . 0 68 . 0 - 22 . 0 p = 0 . 0008 [ 1 ] Clinical cure , n ( % ) 162 ( 81 . 4 % ) 37 ( 56 . 9 % ) 24 . 5 % p = 0 . 0001 [ 2 ] [ 1 ] log - rank test .
A 95 % confidence interval for the difference in medians cannot be computed due to the amount of censored observations in the placebo group .
[ 2 ] chi - square test , 95 % confidence interval on the difference is ( 11 . 3 , 37 . 7 ) .
The results of Trial 2 supported the results presented for Trial 1 .
In addition , this trial provided evidence that AEMCOLO - treated subjects with fever and / or bloody diarrhea at baseline had prolonged TLUS .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • Ziv G , Sulman FG .
Evaluation of rifamycin SV and rifampin kinetics in lactating ewes .
Antimicrob Agents Chemother .
1974 ; 5 ( 2 ) : 139 - 142 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AEMCOLO delayed - release tablets contain 194 mg of rifamycin ( equivalent to 200 mg of rifamycin sodium ) , and are yellow brown , ellipsoidal and film coated .
These are packaged in blister cards of 6 tablets contained in a cardboard carton .
They are supplied as follows : NDC ( 57841 - 1200 - 1 ) : carton of 12 tablets ( 2 blister cards of 6 tablets ) NDC ( 57841 - 1200 - 2 ) : carton of 36 tablets ( 6 blister cards of 6 tablets ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Persistent Diarrhea Inform the patient being treated for travelers ' diarrhea to discontinue AEMCOLO if diarrhea persists more than 48 hours or worsens .
Advise the patient to seek medical care for fever and / or blood in the stool [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Fever and / or Bloody Stool Inform the patient that AEMCOLO is not recommended for use if they have fever and / or bloody stool [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Advise patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs , which usually ends when the antibacterial drugs is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial drugs , patients can develop watery or bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of AEMCOLO .
Inform the patient that if diarrhea occurs after therapy or does not improve or worsens during therapy , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Instruct the patients that : • AEMCOLO tablets should be swallowed whole with a full glass of liquid ( 6 - 8 ounces ) .
• AEMCOLO must not be taken concomitantly with alcohol .
• AEMCOLO tablets must not be chewed , crushed or broken .
• AEMCOLO may be taken with or without food .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including AEMCOLO should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When AEMCOLO is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by AEMCOLO or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Manufactured for : RedHill Biopharma Inc .
Raleigh , NC 27617 833 - ADR - HILL ( 833 - 237 - 4455 ) Manufactured by : Cosmo S . p . A . Lainate , Milan , Italy Made in Italy U . S . Patents : http : / / www . cosmopharma . com / activities / patents ARTW - 0008 - 000 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 194 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton Rx only NDC 57841 - 1200 - 1 194 mg tablets * Swallow tablet whole .
Do not chew or break .
Aemcolo ® ( rifamycin ) delayed release tablets * Each tablet contains : Rifamycin 194 mg ( equivalent to 200 mg Rifamycin Sodium Salt ) aemcolo . com 12 tablets ( 2 cards x 6 tablets each ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 194 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton Rx only NDC 57841 - 1201 - 1 194 mg tablets * Swallow tablet whole .
Do not chew or break .
Aemcolo ® ( rifamycin ) delayed release tablets Sample / Not for Sale * Each tablet contains : Rifamycin 194 mg ( equivalent to 200 mg Rifamycin Sodium Salt ) aemcolo . com 4 tablets ( 1 card x 4 tablets ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
