DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid designed chemically as pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11ß ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each suppository for rectal administration contains hydrocortisone acetate , USP 30 mg in a specially blended hydrogenated vegetable base .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : In normal subjects , about 26 % of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post - irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients having a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate or any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS : Do not use hydrocortisone acetate suppositories unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , hydrocortisone acetate should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenesis : No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
Pregnancy Category C : In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk of the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocortisone acetate suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions have been reported with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories ; burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection .
To report an adverse event , please contact Cameron Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 888 - 767 - 7913 .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE : If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : FOR RECTAL ADMINISTRATION .
Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories .
Hold suppository upright and carefully separate tabs at top opening and pull downward from the pointed end to expose the suppository .
Remove the suppository from the pocket .
Avoid excessive handling of suppository which is designed to melt at body temperature .
Insert one suppository rectally , pointed end first .
Insert one suppository in the rectum twice daily , morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times a day or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , the recommended duration of therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
HOW SUPPLIED : Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories 30 mg are off - white , smooth surfaced and bullet shaped with one pointed end .
Box of 12 suppositories , NDC 42494 - 302 - 12 STORAGE : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Store away from heat .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid contact with eyes .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
PHARMACIST : This product is not an Orange Book rated product , therefore all prescriptions using this product shall be subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
This product has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic or other equivalency testing .
There are no claims of bioequivalence or therapeutic equivalence .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendation based on his / her professional knowledge and opinion , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients , excipients and chemical information contained within the enclosed prescribing information .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Cameron Pharmaceuticals , LLC Louisville , KY 40245 Rev . 10 / 16 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42494 - 302 - 12 Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 30 mg FOR RECTAL USE ONLY 12 Suppositories Unit Dose Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
