1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in each eye twice a day .
Treatment should be continued throughout the period of exposure ( i . e . , until the pollen season is over or until exposure to the offending allergen is terminated ) , even when symptoms are absent .
The recommended dosage is one drop in each eye twice a day .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Solution containing 0 . 5 mg / mL epinastine hydrochloride Ophthalmic solution containing 0 . 5 mg / mL epinastine hydrochloride 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • To minimize the risk of contamination , do not touch dropper tip to any surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) • Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Contamination of Tip and Solution Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , surrounding structures , fingers , or any other surface in order to avoid contamination of the solution by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Bottle should be kept tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Use with Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
The preservative in epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution and may be reinserted after 10 minutes following its administration .
5 . 3 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is for topical ophthalmic use only and not for injection or oral use .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common ocular adverse reactions ( incidence occurring in approximately 1 % to 10 % of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution treated eyes were burning sensation in the eye , folliculosis , hyperemia , and pruritus .
The most common non - ocular adverse reactions , occurring in 10 % of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution - treated eyes , were infection ( cold symptoms and upper respiratory infections ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequently reported ocular adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1 to 10 % of patients were burning sensation in the eye , folliculosis , hyperemia , and pruritus .
The most frequently reported non - ocular adverse reactions were infection ( cold symptoms and upper respiratory infections ) , seen in approximately 10 % of patients , and headache , rhinitis , sinusitis , increased cough , and pharyngitis , seen in approximately 1 to 3 % of patients .
Some of these reactions were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The reactions , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , or a combination of these factors , include : lacrimation increased .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C In an embryofetal developmental study in pregnant rats , maternal toxicity with no embryofetal effects was observed at an oral dose that was approximately 150 , 000 times the maximum recommended ocular human dose ( MROHD ) of 0 . 0014 mg / kg / day on a mg / kg basis .
Total resorptions and abortion were observed in an embryofetal study in pregnant rabbits at an oral dose that was approximately 55 , 000 times the MROHD .
In both studies , no drug - induced teratogenic effects were noted .
Epinastine reduced pup body weight gain following an oral dose to pregnant rats that was approximately 90 , 000 times the MROHD .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers A study in lactating rats revealed excretion of epinastine in the breast milk .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 05 % is a clear , colorless , sterile isotonic solution containing epinastine hydrochloride , an antihistamine and an inhibitor of histamine release from the mast cell for topical administration to the eyes .
Epinastine hydrochloride is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 3 - Amino - 9 , 13 b - dihydro - 1 H - dibenz [ c , f ] imidazo [ 1 , 5 - a ] azepine hydrochloride Each mL contains : Active : Epinastine hydrochloride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 5 mg / mL ) equivalent to epinastine 0 . 044 % ( 0 . 44 mg / mL ) ; Preservative : Benzalkonium chloride solution ( 50 % ) 0 . 02 % ; Inactives : Edetate disodium ; water for injection ; sodium chloride ; monobasic sodium phosphate ; and sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust the pH ) .
Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality range of 250 to 310 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Epinastine is a topically active , direct H1 - receptor antagonist and an inhibitor of the release of histamine from the mast cell .
Epinastine is selective for the histamine H1 - receptor and has affinity for the histamine H2 - receptor .
Epinastine also possesses affinity for the α1 , α 2 - , and 5 - HT2 – receptors .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Fourteen subjects , with allergic conjunctivitis , received one drop of Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in each eye twice daily for 7 days .
On day 7 , average maximum epinastine plasma concentrations of 0 . 04 ± 0 . 014 ng / ml were reached after about two hours indicating low systemic exposure .
While these concentrations represented an increase over those seen following a single dose , the day 1 and day 7 Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) values were unchanged indicating that there is no increase in systemic absorption with multiple dosing .
Epinastine is 64 % bound to plasma proteins .
The total systemic clearance is approximately 56 L / hr and the terminal plasma elimination half - life is about 12 hours .
Epinastine is mainly excreted unchanged .
About 55 % of an intravenous dose is recovered unchanged in the urine with about 30 % in feces .
Less than 10 % is metabolized .
The renal elimination is mainly via active tubular secretion .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility In 18 - month or 2 - year dietary carcinogenicity studies in mice or rats , respectively , epinastine was not carcinogenic at doses up to 40 mg / kg [ approximately 30 , 000 times higher than the MROHD , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals ] .
Epinastine in newly synthesized batches was negative for mutagenicity in the Ames / Salmonella assay and in vitro chromosome aberration assay using human lymphocytes .
Positive results were seen with early batches of epinastine in two in vitro chromosomal aberration studies conducted in 1980 s with human peripheral lymphocytes and with V79 cells , respectively .
Epinastine was negative in the in vivo clastogenicity studies , including the mouse micronucleus assay and chromosome aberration assay in Chinese hamsters .
Epinastine was also negative in the cell transformation assay using Syrian hamster embryo cells , V79 / HGPRT mammalian cell point mutation assay , and in vivo / in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis assay using rat primary hepatocytes .
Epinastine had no effect on fertility of male rats .
Decreased fertility in female rats was observed at an oral dose up to approximately 90 , 000 times the MROHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Epinastine hydrochloride 0 . 05 % has been shown to be significantly superior to vehicle for improving ocular itching in patients with allergic conjunctivitis in clinical studies using two different models : ( 1 ) conjunctival antigen challenge ( CAC ) where patients were dosed and then received antigen instilled into the inferior conjunctival fornix ; and ( 2 ) environmental field studies where patients were dosed and evaluated during allergy season in their natural habitat .
Results demonstrated a rapid onset of action for epinastine hydrochloride 0 . 05 % within 3 to 5 minutes after conjunctival antigen challenge .
Duration of effect was shown to be 8 hours , making a twice daily regimen suitable .
This dosing regimen was shown to be safe and effective for up to 8 weeks , without evidence of tachyphylaxis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 05 % is supplied sterile in white opaque HDPE plastic bottles with natural LDPE sterile plug and sealed with white opaque HDPE pilfer - proof sterile caps as follows : 5 mL in 10 mL bottle ................................. NDC 62756 - 329 - 90 Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep bottle tightly closed and out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Sterility of Dropper Tip Patients should be advised not to touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , 5 . 1 ) .
17 . 2 Concomitant Use of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Patients should be advised that epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Patients should also be advised to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
The preservative in epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of epinastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
17 . 3 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only For topical ophthalmic administration only .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 ISS : 09 / 2014 PJPI0262B PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62756 - 329 - 90 Epinastine HCl Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 05 % FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY Rx only 5 mL SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
