POTASSIUM ACETATE Injection , USP 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) FOR ADDITIVE USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION IN INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS Plastic Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Potassium Acetate Injection , USP , 40 mEq ( 2 mEq / mL ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of potassium acetate in water for injection .
The solution is administered after dilution by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each 20 mL vial contains 3 . 93 g of potassium acetate which provides 40 mEq each of potassium ( K + ) and acetate ( CH3COO – ) .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
May contain acetic acid for pH adjustment .
pH 6 . 2 ( 5 . 5 to 8 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 4 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
The solution is intended as an alternative to potassium chloride to provide potassium ion ( K + ) for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
Potassium acetate , USP is chemically designated CH3COOK , colorless crystals or white crystalline powder very soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY As the principal cation of the intracellular fluid , potassium plays an important role in fluid and electrolyte balance .
The normal potassium concentration in the intracellular fluid compartment is about 160 mEq / liter .
The normal serum potassium range is 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter .
The kidney normally regulates potassium balance but does not conserve potassium as well or as promptly as it conserves sodium .
The daily turnover of potassium in the normal adult averages 50 to 150 mEq ( milliequivalents ) and represents 1 . 5 to 5 % of the total potassium content of the body .
Acetate ( CH3COO – ) , a source of hydrogen ion acceptors , is an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 – ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily , even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Acetate Injection , USP , 40 mEq is indicated as a source of potassium , for the addition to large volume intravenous fluids , to prevent or correct hypokalemia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific intravenous fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium administration is contraindicated in patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency and in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered .
WARNINGS Potassium Acetate Injection , USP , 40 mEq must be diluted before use .
To avoid potassium intoxication , infuse potassium - containing solutions slowly .
Potassium replacement therapy should be monitored whenever possible by continuous or serial electrocardiography ( ECG ) .
Serum potassium levels are not necessarily dependable indicators of tissue potassium levels .
Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Potassium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by ECG monitoring and secondarily by the serum potassium level .
High plasma concentrations of potassium may cause death by cardiac depression , arrhythmias or arrest .
Use with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing acetate ion should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium acetate .
It is also not known whether potassium acetate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium acetate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of potassium acetate have been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Potassium ions are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , flaccid paralysis , listlessness , mental confusion , weakness and heaviness of the legs , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves , spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusion containing potassium acetate immediately and institute corrective therapy as indicated to reduce elevated serum potassium levels and restore acid - base balance if necessary .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Potassium Acetate Injection , USP , 40 mEq is administered intravenously only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
ECG and serum potassium should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , all or part of the contents of one or more vials may be added to other intravenous fluids to provide any desired number of milliequivalents ( mEq ) of potassium ( K + ) with an equal number of milliequivalents of acetate ( CH3COO – ) .
Maximum infusion rate : The infusion rate should not exceed 1 mEq / kg / hr .
Normal daily requirements : Newborn : 2 – 6 mEq / kg / 24 hr .
Children : 2 – 3 mEq / kg / 24 hr .
Adult : 40 – 80 mEq / 24 hr .
Intraosseous infusion can be an alternate route for drug administration when intravenous access is not readily available .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Acetate Injection , USP is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 0409 - 8183 - 25 40 mEq / 20 mL NDC 0409 - 8183 - 15 Tray of 25 ( 2 mEq / mL ) Single - Dose Fliptop Vial Each container is partially filled to provide air space for complete vacuum withdrawal of the contents into the intravenous container .
Store at 20 to 25ºC ( 68 to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Novaplus is a registered trademark of Vizient , Inc .
LAB - 0902 - 4 . 0 Revised : 11 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Label NDC 0409 - 8183 - 15 20 mL Single - dose Potassium Acetate Injection , USP K + 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
novaplus ™ Dist .
by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Tray NDC 0409 - 8183 - 25 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 8183 - 15 Rx only 20 mL Single - dose POTASSIUM ACETATE Injection , USP 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
