Active ingredient Avobenzone Homosalate Octisalate Octocrylene Purpose sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer Warnings For external use only When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : after 80 minute of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your rist of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • childre under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information protect the product in this container from excessive heat and dirtect sun Inactive ingredients water , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , silica , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , beeswax , cyclopentasiloxane , acrylates / dimethicone copolymer , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , fragrance , chlorphenesin , benzyl alcohol , triethanolamine , disodium EDTA , BHT Kroger dry touch sheer sunscreen lotion is a broad spectrum sunscreen that absorbs quickly and leaves your skin feeling smooth and soft , with no greasy residue .
Oxybenzone & octinoxate free May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer , Inc . , distributor of Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 100 + Distributed by the Kroger Co .
Cincinnati , OH 45202 Quality guarantee 800 - 632 - 6900 www . kroger . com principal display panel * Compare to Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen see back panel KROGER DRY TOUCH Sheer Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 100 Water resistant ( 80 min ) UVA / UVB protection wo n't clog pores clean & lightweight feel dermatologist tested SPF 100 Reef friendly NET 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
