Dosage and Administration Preparation of Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 01 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 ) 01 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection at a concentration of 2 units / mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency .
Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection at a concentration of 2 units / mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infuse through intravenous catheter at a rate of 6 units per hour .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Preparation for Administration Do not administer unless solution is clear , and seal is intact .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not infuse this product under pressure .
To Open : Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Visually inspect the container .
If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Do not add supplementary medication .
Preparation for Administration : • 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
• 2 .
Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
• 3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
All injections in VIAFLEX PLUS plastic containers are intended for administration using sterile equipment .
Single - dose container .
Discard any unused portion .
Do not reconnect partially used bags .
Because dosages of this drug are titrated to response , no additives should be made to Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection .
Heparin sodium is not effective by oral administration and Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection should not be given orally .
2 . 2 Maintenance of Catheter Patency The recommended starting dose is 6 units per hour by intravenous infusion through an intravenous catheter to maintain catheter patency .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • • Injection : 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 units per mL ) clear solution in a single - dose infusion bag • • Injection : 2 , 000 USP units per 1 , 000 mL ( 2 units per mL ) clear solution in a single - dose infusion bag • • Injection : 1 , 000 USP units in Sodium Chloride in 500 mL single - dose infusion bag ( 2 USP units per mL ) ( 3 ) • • Injection : 2 , 000 USP units in Sodium Chloride per 1 , 000 mL single - dose infusion bag ( 2 USP units per mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions : • • Uncontrollable active bleeding state , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • History of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( HITT ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Severe thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] • • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions : ( 4 ) • • With an uncontrollable active bleeding state , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 5 . 1 ) • • With a history of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) or heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( HITT ) ( 5 . 2 ) • • With severe thrombocytopenia ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 5 . 5 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hemorrhage : Fatal cases have occurred .
Monitor for signs of bleeding and manage promptly .
( 5 . 1 ) • • HIT and HITT : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue if indicative of HIT or HITT .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hyperkalemia : Measure plasma potassium in patients at risk of hyperkalemia before starting heparin therapy and periodically in all patients .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Elevations of serum aminotransferases : Interpret elevation of these enzymes with caution .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Hemorrhage Avoid using heparin in the presence of major bleeding , except when the benefits of heparin therapy outweigh the potential risks .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred .
A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
An unexplained fall in hematocrit , fall in blood pressure , or any other unexplained symptom should lead to serious consideration of hemorrhagic event .
Use heparin sodium with caution in disease states in which there is increased risk of hemorrhage , including : • • Cardiovascular - Subacute bacterial endocarditis , severe hypertension .
• • Surgical - During and immediately following ( a ) spinal tap or spinal anesthesia or ( b ) major surgery , especially involving the brain , spinal cord , or eye .
• • Hematologic - Conditions associated with increased bleeding tendencies , such as hemophilia , thrombocytopenia , and some vascular purpuras .
• • Gastrointestinal - Ulcerative lesions and continuous tube drainage of the stomach or small intestine .
• • Patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency receiving concurrent antithrombin III therapy – The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , reduce the heparin dose during concomitant treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) .
• • Other - Menstruation , liver disease with impaired hemostasis .
5 . 2 Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia with Thrombosis Heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) is a serious immune - mediated reaction .
HIT occurs in patients treated with heparin and is due to the development of antibodies to a platelet Factor 4 - heparin complex that induce in vivo platelet aggregation .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition referred to as heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( HITT ) .
Thrombotic events may also be the initial presentation for HITT .
These serious thromboembolic events include deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , cerebral vein thrombosis , limb ischemia , stroke , myocardial infarction , mesenteric thrombosis , renal arterial thrombosis , skin necrosis , gangrene of the extremities that may lead to amputation , and possibly death .
Once HIT or HITT is diagnosed or strongly suspected , discontinue all heparin sources ( including heparin flushes ) and use an alternative anticoagulant .
Immune - mediated HIT is diagnosed based on clinical findings supplemented by laboratory tests confirming the presence of antibodies to heparin , or platelet activation induced by heparin .
Obtain platelet counts at baseline and periodically during heparin administration .
A drop in platelet count greater than 50 % from baseline is considered indicative of HIT .
Platelet counts begin to fall 5 to 10 days after exposure to heparin in heparin – naive individuals and reach a threshold by days 7 to 14 .
In contrast , “ rapid onset ” HIT can occur very quickly ( within 24 hours following heparin initiation ) , especially in patients with a recent exposure to heparin ( i . e . , previous 3 months ) .
Thrombosis development shortly after documenting thrombocytopenia is a characteristic finding in almost half of all patients with HIT .
Monitor any degree of thrombocytopenia closely .
If the platelet count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT and HITT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant .
HIT or HITT can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy .
Evaluate patients presenting with thrombocytopenia or thrombosis after discontinuation of heparin sodium for HIT or HITT .
5 . 3 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia in patients receiving heparin has been reported at frequencies up to 30 % .
It can occur 2 to 20 days ( average 5 to 9 ) following the onset of heparin therapy .
Obtain platelet counts before and periodically during heparin therapy .
Mild thrombocytopenia ( count greater than 100 , 000 / mm3 ) may remain stable or reverse even if heparin is continued .
However , monitor thrombocytopenia of any degree closely .
If the count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT and HITT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Heparin Resistance Increased resistance to heparin is frequently encountered in fever , thrombosis , thrombophlebitis , infections with thrombosing tendencies , myocardial infarction , cancer , in postsurgical patients , and patients with anti - thrombin deficiency .
Consider measurement of anti - thrombin levels if heparin resistance is suspected .
Monitor coagulation tests frequently in such patients .
It may be necessary to adjust the dose of heparin based on coagulation test monitoring , such as anti - Factor Xa levels and / or partial thromboplastin time .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions with chills , fever and urticaria as the most usual manifestations and also asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
Patients with documented hypersensitivity to heparin should be given the drug only in clearly life - threatening situations .
Because Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is derived from animal tissue , it should be used with caution in patients with a history of allergy to pork products .
5 . 6 Hyperkalemia Heparin can suppress adrenal secretion of aldosterone leading to hyperkalemia , particularly in patients with diabetes mellitus , chronic renal failure , pre - existing metabolic acidosis , a raised plasma potassium , or taking potassium sparing drugs .
The risk of hyperkalemia appears to increase with duration of therapy but is usually reversible upon discontinuation of heparin .
Measure plasma potassium in patients at risk of hyperkalemia before starting heparin therapy and periodically in all patients treated for more than 5 days or earlier as deemed fit by the clinician .
5 . 7 Elevations of Serum Aminotransferases Significant elevations of aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels have occurred patients who have received heparin .
Elevation of these enzymes in patients receiving heparin should be interpreted with caution .
These elevations typically resolve upon heparin discontinuation .
5 . 8 Laboratory Tests Periodic platelet counts , hematocrits , and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia with Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Heparin Resistance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Elevations of Serum Aminotransferases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are : hemorrhage , thrombocytopenia , HIT and HITT , hypersensitivity , and elevations of aminotransferase levels .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Baxter Healthcare at 1 - 866 - 888 - 2472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of heparin sodium .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
Hemorrhage Hemorrhage is the chief complication that may result from heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
An overly prolonged clotting time or minor bleeding during therapy can usually be controlled by withdrawing the drug [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal or urinary tract bleeding during anticoagulant therapy may indicate the presence of an underlying occult lesion .
Bleeding can occur at any site but certain specific hemorrhagic complications may be difficult to detect : • • Adrenal hemorrhage , with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency , has occurred during anticoagulant therapy , including fatal cases .
• • Ovarian ( corpus luteum ) hemorrhage developed in a number of women of reproductive age receiving short or long - term anticoagulant therapy .
• • Retroperitoneal hemorrhage Vascular Disorders : Contusion , Vasospastic reactions ( including episodes of painful , ischemic , and cyanosed limbs ) .
HIT and HITT , including delayed onset cases , Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Histamine - like reactions : Such reactions have been observed at the site of injections .
Necrosis of the skin has been reported at the site of subcutaneous injection of heparin , occasionally requiring skin grafting .
Hypersensitivity : General hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , with chills , fever , and urticaria as the most usual manifestations , and asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , headache , nausea and vomiting , and anaphylactoid reactions , including shock , occurring more rarely .
Itching and burning , especially on the plantar site of the feet , may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : Osteoporosis with long - term administration of heparin .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Hyperkalemia .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Erythema , mild pain , ulceration .
Elevations of serum aminotransferases : Significant elevations of aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels have occurred patients who have received heparin .
Others : Cutaneous necrosis after systemic administration , delayed transient alopecia , priapism , and rebound hyperlipemia on discontinuation of heparin sodium have also been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one - stage prothrombin time .
Therefore , when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium , a period of at least 5 hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained .
7 . 2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as NSAIDS ( including acetylsalicylic acid , ibuprofen , indomethacin , and celecoxib ) , dextran , phenylbutazone , thienopyridines , dipyridamole , hydroxychloroquine , glycoprotein IIv / IIa antagonists ( including abciximab , eptifibatide , and tirofiban ) , and others that interfere with platelet - aggregation reactions ( the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients ) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , a reduction in the dose of antiplatelet agent or heparin is recommended .
7 . 3 Other Medications that May Interfere with Heparin Digitalis , tetracyclines , nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium .
Intravenous nitroglycerin administered to heparinized patients may result in a decrease of the partial thromboplastin time with subsequent rebound effect upon discontinuation of nitroglycerin .
Careful monitoring of partial thromboplastin time and adjustment of heparin dosage are recommended during coadministration of heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin .
Antithrombin III ( human ) – The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , a reduced dosage of heparin is recommended during treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Geriatric Use : A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients over 60 years of age , especially women ( 5 . 7 , 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
In published reports heparin exposure during pregnancy did not show evidence of an increased risk of adverse maternal or fetal outcomes in humans ( see Data ) .
Consider the benefits and risks of Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection for the mother and possible risks to the fetus when prescribing Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection to a pregnant woman .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Human Data The maternal and fetal outcomes associated with uses of heparin via various dosing methods and administration routes during pregnancy have been investigated in numerous studies .
These studies generally reported normal deliveries with no maternal or fetal bleeding and no other complications .
Animal Data In a published study conducted in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received heparin intravenously during organogenesis at a dose of 10 , 000 units / kg / day , more than 50 times the maximum human daily dose based on body weight .
The number of early resorptions increased in both species .
There was no evidence of teratogenic effects .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of heparin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Due to its large molecular weight , heparin is not likely to be excreted in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for heparin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from heparin or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients over 60 years of age , especially women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Clinical studies indicate that lower doses of heparin may be indicated in these patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE An overdose requires immediate medical attention and treatment .
Bleeding is the chief sign of heparin overdosage .
Easy bruising , petechial formations , nosebleeds , blood in urine or tarry stools may be the first signs or symptoms of a heparin overdose .
In the event of symptomatic heparin overdose , consider stopping heparin infusion .
Neutralization of heparin effect : When clinical circumstances ( bleeding ) require reversal of heparinization , protamine sulfate ( 1 % solution ) by slow infusion will neutralize heparin sodium .
No more than 50 mg should be administered , very slowly in any 10 - minute period .
Each mg of protamine sulfate neutralizes approximately 100 USP heparin units .
The amount of protamine required decreases over time as heparin is metabolized .
Although the metabolism of heparin is complex , it may , for the purpose of choosing a protamine dose , be assumed to have a half - life of about 30 minutes after intravenous injection .
Ideally , the dose required to neutralize the action of heparin should be guided by blood coagulation tests or calculated from a protamine neutralization test .
Because fatal reactions often resembling anaphylaxis have been reported with protamine , it should be given only when resuscitation techniques and treatment of anaphylactoid shock are readily available .
For additional information consult the labeling of Protamine Sulfate Injection .
Blood or plasma transfusions may be necessary ; these dilute but do not neutralize heparin .
11 DESCRIPTION Heparin is a heterogenous group of straight - chain anionic mucopolysaccharides , called glycosaminoglycans having anticoagulant properties .
Although others may be present , the main sugars occurring in heparin are : ( 1 ) α - L - iduronic acid 2 - sulfate , ( 2 ) 2 - deoxy - 2 - sulfamino - α - D - glucose 6 - sulfate , ( 3 ) β - D - glucuronic acid , ( 4 ) 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - α - D - glucose , and ( 5 ) α - L - iduronic acid .
These sugars are present in decreasing amounts , usually in the order ( 2 ) > ( 1 ) > ( 4 ) > ( 3 ) > ( 5 ) , and are joined by glycosidic linkages , forming polymers of varying sizes .
Heparin is strongly acidic because of its content of covalently linked sulfate and carboxylic acid groups .
In heparin sodium , the acidic protons of the sulfate units are partially replaced by sodium ions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is a buffered , sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of Heparin Sodium , USP derived from porcine intestinal mucosa , standardized for anticoagulant activity supplied in single dose containers for vascular administration .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The potency is determined by a biological assay using a USP reference standard based on units of heparin activity per milligram .
Composition , osmolarity , pH and ionic concentration are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Composition , Osmolarity , pH , and Ionic Concentration of Heparin in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride InjectionProduct Description and Size 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 500 mL 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 500 mL 2 , 000 USP Heparin Units in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 1 , 000 mL 2 , 000 USP Heparin Units in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 1 , 000 mL NDC # 0338 - 0431 - 03 0338 - 0424 - 18 0338 - 0433 - 04 0338 - 0428 - 12 Manufacturing Location Jayuya , PR Toongabbie , AUS Jayuya , PR Toongabbie , AUS Heparin Sodium , USP ( units / mL ) 2 2 2 2 Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) ( g / L ) 9 9 9 9 Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Heptahydrate , USP ( Na2HPO4 * 7H2O ) ( g / L ) 4 . 34 ---- 4 . 34 ---- Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Dodecahydrate , USP ( Na2HPO4 * 12H2O ) ( g / L ) ---- 5 . 80 ---- 5 . 80 Citric Acid Hydrous , USP ( C6H8O7 * H2O ) ( g / L ) 0 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 4 Osmolarity [ 1 ] ( mOsmol / L ) 322 322 322 322 pH 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) Sodium ( mEq / L ) 186 186 186 186 Chloride ( mEq / L ) 154 154 154 154 Phosphate ( as HPO4 = ) ( mEq / L ) 32 ( 16 mmol / L ) 32 ( 16 mmol / L ) 32 ( 16 mmol / L ) 32 ( 16 mmol / L ) Citrate ( mEq / L ) 6 6 6 6 [ 1 ] Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
This VIAFLEX PLUS plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
VIAFLEX PLUS on the container indicates the presence of a drug additive in a drug vehicle .
The VIAFLEX PLUS plastic container system utilizes the same container as the VIAFLEX plastic container system .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Heparin interacts with the naturally occurring plasma protein , Antithrombin III , to induce a conformational change , which markedly enhances the serine protease activity of Antithrombin III , thereby inhibiting the activated coagulation factors involved in the closing sequence , particularly Xa and IIa .
Small amounts of heparin inhibit Factor Xa , and larger amounts inhibit thrombin ( Factor IIa ) .
Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor .
Heparin does not have fibrinolytic activity ; therefore , it will not lyse existing clots .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Various times ( activated clotting time , activated partial thromboplastin time , prothrombin time , whole blood clotting time ) are prolonged by full therapeutic doses of heparin ; in most cases , they are not measurably affected by low doses of heparin .
Bleeding time is usually unaffected by heparin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Heparin is not absorbed through the gastrointestinal tract and therefore administered via parenteral route .
Peak plasma concentration and the onset of action are achieved immediately after intravenous administration .
Distribution Heparin is highly bound to antithrombin , fibrinogens , globulins , serum proteases and lipoproteins .
The volume of distribution is 0 . 07 L / kg .
Elimination Metabolism Heparin does not undergo enzymatic degradation .
Excretion Heparin is mainly cleared from the circulation by liver and reticuloendothelial cells mediated uptake into extravascular space .
Heparin undergoes biphasic clearance , a ) rapid saturable clearance ( zero order process due to binding to proteins , endothelial cells and macrophages ) and b ) slower first order elimination .
Low doses of heparin are cleared mostly by a saturable , rapid , zero - order process .
Slower first order elimination usually occurs with very high doses of heparin and is dependent on renal function .
The plasma half - life is dose - dependent , and it ranges from 0 . 5 to 2 h . Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Patients over 60 years of age , following similar doses of heparin , may have higher plasma levels of heparin and longer activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTTs ) compared with patients under 60 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal and Hepatic Impairment The rate of clearance of unfractionated heparin may be decreased in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment , following similar doses of heparin may have higher plasma levels of heparin compared with patient with normal renal and hepatic function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential of heparin .
Also , no reproduction studies in animals have been performed concerning mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection in VIAFLEX PLUS plastic container is supplied as follows : Product Description Size Code NDC 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units in Sodium Chloride Injection 500 mL 2B0953 0338 - 0431 - 03 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units in Sodium Chloride Injection 500 mL AHB0953U 0338 - 0424 - 18 2 , 000 USP Heparin Units in Sodium Chloride Injection 1 , 000 mL 2B0944 0338 - 0433 - 04 2 , 000 USP Heparin Units in Sodium Chloride Injection 1 , 000 mL AHB0944U 0338 - 0428 - 12 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Brief exposure up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) does not adversely affect the product .
Avoid excessive heat .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hemorrhage Inform patients that it may take them longer than usual to stop bleeding , that they may bruise and / or bleed more easily when they are treated with heparin , and that they should report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their physician .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Prior to Surgery Advise patients to inform physicians and dentists that they are receiving heparin before any surgery is scheduled [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia Inform patients of the risk of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition known as heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( HITT ) .
HIT and HITT can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported .
Necrosis of the skin has been reported at the site of subcutaneous injection of heparin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Other Medications Because of the risk of hemorrhage , advise patients to inform their physicians and dentists of all medications they are taking , including non - prescription medications , and before starting any new medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Baxter , Viaflex and Viaflex Plus are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
07 - 19 - 00 - 3508 ANZ881901209C PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label LOT EXP NDC 0338 - 0431 - 03 Heparin Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 1 , 000 units per 500 mL ( 2 units / mL ) 500 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS 2 USP HEPARIN UNITS HEPARIN SODIUM ( PORCINE INTESTINAL MUCOSA ) USP 9 mg SODIUM CHLORIDE USP 4 . 34 mg DIBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE HEPTAHYDRATE USP 400 mcg CITRIC ACID USP pH 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 TO 8 . 0 ) SODIUM 186 mEq / L CHLORIDE 154 mEq / L PHOSPHATE ( AS HPO4 = ) 32 mEq / L CITRATE 6 mEq / L OSMOLARITY 322 mOsmol / L ( ACTUAL ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERT DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR 25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter Logo USA 2B0953 1 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label LOT EXP NDC 0338 - 0433 - 04 Heparin Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 2 , 000 units per 1 , 000 mL ( 2 units / mL ) 1 , 000 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS 2 USP HEPARIN UNITS HEPARIN SODIUM ( PORCINE INTESTINAL MUCOSA ) USP 9 mg SODIUM CHLORIDE USP 4 . 34 mg DIBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE HEPTAHYDRATE USP 400 mcg CITRIC ACID USP pH 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 TO 8 . 0 ) SODIUM 186 mEq / L CHLORIDE 154 mEq / L PHOSPHATE ( AS HPO4 = ) 32 mEq / L CITRATE 6 mEq / L OSMOLARITY 322 mOsmol / L ( ACTUAL ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERT DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR 25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter Logo USA 2B0944 07 - 25 - 58 - 614 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label NDC 0338 - 0424 - 18 Heparin Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 1 , 000 units per 500 mL ( 2 units / mL ) 500 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS 2 USP HEPARIN UNITS HEPARIN SODIUM ( PORCINE INTESTINAL MUCOSA ) USP 9 mg SODIUM CHLORIDE USP 5 . 80 mg DIBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE DODECAHYDRATE USP 400 mcg CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE USP pH 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 TO 8 . 0 ) SODIUM 186 mEq / L CHLORIDE 154 mEq / L PHOSPHATE ( AS HPO4 = ) 32 mEq / L CITRATE 6 mEq / L OSMOLARITY 322 mOsmol / L ( ACTUAL ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERT DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR 25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter Logo MADE IN AUSTRALIA AHB0953U A 88 - 25 - 02 - 015 A LOT XXXXX EXP DATE MMMYY 1 2 3 4 Barcode ( 01 ) 00303380424184 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label NDC 0338 - 0428 - 12 Heparin Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 2 , 000 units per 1 , 000 mL ( 2 units / mL ) 1 , 000 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS 2 USP HEPARIN UNITS HEPARIN SODIUM ( PORCINE INTESTINAL MUCOSA ) USP 9 mg SODIUM CHLORIDE USP 5 . 80 mg DIBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE DODECAHYDRATE USP 400 mcg CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE USP pH 7 . 0 ( 6 . 0 TO 8 . 0 ) SODIUM 186 mEq / L CHLORIDE 154 mEq / L PHOSPHATE ( AS HPO4 = ) 32 mEq / L CITRATE 6 mEq / L OSMOLARITY 322 mOsmol / L ( ACTUAL ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERT DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR 25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter Logo MADE IN AUSTRALIA AHB0944U A 88 - 25 - 02 - 016 LOT XXXXX EXP DATE MMMYY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GS1 128 Barcode to be placed here NLT 12 . 7 mm x 62 . 5 mm ( 01 ) 00303380428120 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
