Rx only DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( ± ) - N , N - dimethyl - 2 - [ ( o - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ) oxy ] - ethylamine citrate ( 1 : 1 ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol .
Each vial contains 60 mg of orphenadrine citrate in aqueous solution .
Each vial also contains : sodium metabisulfite , 2 mg ; sodium chloride , 5 . 8 mg ; sodium hydroxide , to adjust pH ; and water for injection , q . s . to 2 mL .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C18H23NO • C6H8O7 MW 461 . 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anticholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Orphenadrine citrate is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Orphenadrine citrate injection contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine .
It is also not known whether orphenadrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established ; therefore , this drug is not recommended for use in the pediatric age group .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine are mainly due to the mild anticholinergic action of orphenadrine , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
Rare instances of anaphylactic reaction have been reported associated with the intramuscular injection of orphenadrine citrate .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anticholinergic effects .
In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
Treatment for orphenadrine overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring , and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anticholinergic effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults - One 2 mL vial ( 60 mg ) intravenously or intramuscularly ; may be repeated every 12 hours .
Relief may be maintained by one ( 100 mg ) orphenadrine citrate tablet twice daily .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine Citrate Injection , USP is supplied as follows : Cartons of 10 ( NDC 0641 - 6182 - 10 ) 2 mL vials , each vial containing 60 mg of orphenadrine citrate in aqueous solution .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Single dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 Revised December 2019 462 - 734 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CONTAINER NDC 0641 - 6182 - 01 Rx only Orphenadrine Citrate Injection , USP 60 mg per 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) For IV or IM use Discard unused portion 2 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SHELF PACK NDC 0641 - 6182 - 10 Rx only Orphenadrine Citrate Injection , USP 60 mg per 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular use 10 x 2 mL Single Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
