Rx only WARNINGSpironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in chronic toxicity studies in rats ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be used only in those conditions described under INDICATIONS AND USAGE .
Unnecessary use of this drug should be avoided .
Fixed - dose combination drugs are not indicated for initial therapy of edema or hypertension .
Edema or hypertension requires therapy titrated to the individual patient .
If the fixed combination represents the dosage so determined , its use may be more convenient in patient management .
The treatment of hypertension and edema is not static but must be reevaluated as conditions in each patient warrant .
DESCRIPTION Each tablet of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide contains 25 mg of spironolactone , USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
Spironolactone , an aldosterone antagonist , is 17 - hydroxy - 7α - mercapto - 3 - oxo - 17α - pregn - 4 - ene - 21 - carboxylic acid γ - lactone acetate and has the following structural formula , molecular formula , and molecular weight : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C24H32O4S M . W . = 416 . 59 Spironolactone is practically insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and freely soluble in benzene and in chloroform .
Hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic and antihypertensive , is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide and has the following structural formula , molecular formula , and molecular weight : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C7H8ClN3O4S2 M . W . = 297 . 75 Hydrochlorothiazide is slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 25 mg of spironolactone and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , D & lC yellow # 10 aluminum lake HT , FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake HT , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , menthol , peppermint oil , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate and starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS / CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionSpironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of two diuretic agents with different but complementary mechanisms and sites of action , thereby providing additive diuretic and antihypertensive effects .
Additionally , the spironolactone component helps to minimize the potassium loss characteristically induced by the thiazide component .
The diuretic effect of spironolactone is mediated through its action as a specific pharmacologic antagonist of aldosterone , primarily by competitive binding of receptors at the aldosterone - dependent sodium - potassium exchange site in the distal convoluted renal tubule .
Hydrochlorothiazide promotes the excretion of sodium and water primarily by inhibiting their reabsorption in the cortical diluting segment of the distal renal tubule .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is effective in significantly lowering the systolic and diastolic blood pressure in many patients with essential hypertension , even when aldosterone secretion is within normal limits .
Both spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide reduce exchangeable sodium , plasma volume , body weight , and blood pressure .
The diuretic and antihypertensive effects of the individual components are potentiated when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide are given concurrently .
PharmacokineticsSpironolactone is rapidly and extensively metabolized .
Sulfur - containing products are the predominant metabolites and are thought to be primarily responsible , together with spironolactone , for the therapeutic effects of the drug .
The following pharmacokinetic data were obtained from 12 healthy volunteers following the administration of 100 mg of spironolactone ( as tablets ) daily for 15 days .
On the 15 th day , spironolactone was given immediately after a low - fat breakfast and blood was drawn thereafter .
Accumulation Factor : AUC ( 0 – 24 hr , day 15 ) / AUC ( 0 – 24 hr , day 1 ) Mean Peak Serum Concentration Mean ( SD ) Post - Steady State Half - Life 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( TMS ) 1 . 25 391 ng / mL at 3 . 2 hr 13 . 8 hr ( 6 . 4 ) ( terminal ) 6 - β - hydroxy - 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( HTMS ) 1 . 50 125 ng / mL at 5 . 1 hr 15 . 0 hr ( 4 . 0 ) ( terminal ) Canrenone ( C ) 1 . 41 181 ng / mL at 4 . 3 hr 16 . 5 hr ( 6 . 3 ) ( terminal ) Spironolactone 1 . 30 80 ng / mL at 2 . 6 hr Approximately 1 . 4 hr ( 0 . 5 ) ( β half - life ) The pharmacological activity of spironolactone metabolites in man is not known .
However , in the adrenalectomized rat the antimineralocorticoid activities of the metabolites C , TMS , and HTMS , relative to spironolactone , were 1 . 1 , 1 . 28 , and 0 . 32 , respectively .
Relative to spironolactone , their binding affinities to the aldosterone receptors in rat kidney slices were 0 . 19 , 0 . 86 , and 0 . 06 , respectively .
In humans the potencies of TMS and 7 - α - thiospironolactone in reversing the effects of the synthetic mineralocorticoid , fludrocortisone , on urinary electrolyte composition were 0 . 33 and 0 . 26 , respectively , relative to spironolactone .
However , since the serum concentrations of these steroids were not determined , their incomplete absorption and / or firstpass metabolism could not be ruled out as a reason for their reduced in vivo activities .
Spironolactone and its metabolites are more than 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
The metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine and secondarily in bile .
The effect of food on spironolactone absorption ( two 100 mg spironolactone tablets ) was assessed in a single dose study of 9 healthy , drug - free volunteers .
Food increased the bioavailability of unmetabolized spironolactone by almost 100 % .
The clinical importance of this finding is not known .
Hydrochlorothiazide is rapidly absorbed following oral administration .
Onset of action of hydrochlorothiazide is observed within one hour and persists for 6 to 12 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide plasma concentrations attain peak levels at one to two hours and decline with a half - life of four to five hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide undergoes only slight metabolic alteration and is excreted in urine .
It is distributed throughout the extracellular space , with essentially no tissue accumulation except in the kidney .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in chronic toxicity studies in rats ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used only in those conditions described below .
Unnecessary use of this drug should be avoided .
Spironolactone and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are Indicated for : Edematous Conditions for Patients with : Congestive Heart FailureFor the management of edema and sodium retention when the patient is only partially responsive to , or is intolerant of , other therapeutic measures .
The treatment of diuretic - induced hypokalemia in patients with congestive heart failure when other measures are considered inappropriate .
The treatment of patients with congestive heart failure taking digitalis when other therapies are considered inadequate or inappropriate .
Cirrhosis of the Liver Accompanied by Edema and / or AscitesAldosterone levels may be exceptionally high in this condition .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for maintenance therapy together with bed rest and the restriction of fluid and sodium .
The Nephrotic SyndromeFor nephrotic patients when treatment of the underlying disease , restriction of fluid and sodium intake , and the use of other diuretics do not provide an adequate response .
Essential HypertensionFor patients with essential hypertension in whom other measures are considered inadequate or inappropriate .
In hypertensive patients for the treatment of a diuretic - induced hypokalemia when other measures are considered inappropriate .
Usage in PregnancyThe routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developing toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes just as it is in the absence of pregnancy ( however , see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is unsupported and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is not harmful to either the fetus or the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients with anuria , acute renal insufficiency , significant impairment of renal excretory function , or hyperkalemia , and in patients who are allergic to thiazide diuretics or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide may also be contraindicated in acute or severe hepatic failure .
WARNINGS Potassium supplementation , either in the form of medication or as a diet rich in potassium , should not ordinarily be given in association with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide therapy .
Excessive potassium intake may cause hyperkalemia in patients receiving spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered concurrently with other potassium - sparing diuretics .
Spironolactone , when used with ACE inhibitors or indomethacin , even in the presence of a diuretic , has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Extreme caution should be exercised when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is given concomitantly with these drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interaction ) .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function because minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Sensitivity reactions to thiazides may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
Sulfonamide derivatives , including thiazides , have been reported to exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralAll patients receiving diuretic therapy should be observed for evidence of fluid or electrolyte imbalance , e . g . , hypomagnesemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia or hyperkalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of the mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hyperkalemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function or excessive potassium intake and can cause cardiac irregularities , which may be fatal .
Consequently , no potassium supplement should ordinarily be given with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide .
Concomitant administration of potassium - sparing diuretics and ACE inhibitors or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , e . g . , indomethacin , has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
If hyperkalemia is suspected ( warning signs include paresthesia , muscle weakness , fatigue , flaccid paralysis of the extremities , bradycardia and shock ) an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) should be obtained .
However , it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes .
If hyperkalemia is present , spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately .
With severe hyperkalemia , the clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed .
These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution , sodium bicarbonate solution and / or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid - acting insulin preparation .
These are temporary measures to be repeated as required .
Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered .
Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis .
Hypokalemia may develop as a result of profound diuresis , particularly when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is used concomitantly with loop diuretics , glucocorticoids , or ACTH , when severe cirrhosis is present or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmias and may exaggerate the effects of digitalis therapy .
Potassium depletion may induce signs of digitalis intoxication at previously tolerated dosage levels .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide therapy may cause a transient elevation of BUN .
This appears to represent a concentration phenomenon rather than renal toxicity , since the BUN level returns to normal after use of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is discontinued .
Progressive elevation of BUN is suggestive of the presence of preexisting renal impairment .
Reversible hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis , usually in association with hyperkalemia , has been reported to occur in some patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis , even in the presence of normal renal function .
Dilutional hyponatremia , manifested by dryness of the mouth , thirst , lethargy , and drowsiness , and confirmed by a low serum sodium level , may be induced , especially when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is administered in combination with other diuretics , and dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than administration of sodium , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
A true low - salt syndrome may rarely develop with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide therapy and may be manifested by increasing mental confusion similar to that observed with hepatic coma .
This syndrome is differentiated from dilutional hyponatremia in that it does not occur with obvious fluid retention .
Its treatment requires that diuretic therapy be discontinued and sodium administered .
Hyperuricemia may occur or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazides .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
In diabetic patients , dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus , latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide may be enhanced in the post - sympathetectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Pathologic changes in the parathyroid gland with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia have been observed in patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
Gynecomastia may develop in association with the use of spironolactone ; physicians should be alert to its possible onset .
The development of gynecomastia appears to be related to both dosage level and duration of therapy and is normally reversible when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is discontinued .
In rare instances some breast enlargement may persist when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is discontinued .
Information for PatientsPatients who receive spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be advised to avoid potassium supplements and foods containing high levels of potassium including salt substitutes .
Laboratory TestsPeriodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be done at appropriate intervals , particularly in the elderly and those with significant renal or hepatic impairments .
Drug InteractionsACE InhibitorsConcomitant administration of ACE inhibitors with potassium - sparing diuretics has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Alcohol , Barbiturates , or NarcoticsPotentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic Drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) — Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Corticosteroids , ACTHIntensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia , may occur .
Pressor Amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) Both spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide reduce the vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine .
Therefore , caution should be exercised in the management of patients subjected to regional or general anesthesia while they are being treated with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide .
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants , Nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant may result .
LithiumLithium generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) In some patients , the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effect of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Combination of NSAIDs , e . g . , indomethacin , with potassium - sparing diuretics has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Therefore , when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide and NSAIDs are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
DigoxinSpironolactone has been shown to increase the half - life of digoxin .
This may result in increased serum digoxin levels and subsequent digitalis toxicity .
It may be necessary to reduce the maintenance and digitalization doses when spironolactone is administered , and the patient should be carefully monitored to avoid over - or underdigitalization .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsThiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
Thiazides may also decrease serum PBI levels without evidence of alteration of thyroid function .
Several reports of possible interference with digoxin radioimmunoassays by spironolactone or its metabolites have appeared in the literature .
Neither the extent nor the potential clinical significance of its interference ( which may be assay specific ) has been fully established .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilitySpironolactoneOrally administered spironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in dietary administration studies performed in rats , with its proliferative effects manifested on endocrine organs and the liver .
In an 18 month study using doses of about 50 , 150 and 500 mg / kg / day , there were statistically significant increases in benign adenomas of the thyroid and testes and , in male rats , a dose - related increase in proliferative changes in the liver ( including hepatocytomegaly and hyperplastic nodules ) .
In a 24 month study in which the same strain of rat was administered doses of about 10 , 30 , 100 and 150 mg spironolactone / kg / day , the range of proliferative effects included significant increases in hepatocellular adenomas and testicular interstitial cell tumors in males , and significant increases in thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in both sexes .
There was also a statistically significant , but not dose - related , increase in benign uterine endometrial stromal polyps in females .
A dose - related ( above 20 mg / kg / day ) incidence of myelocytic leukemia was observed in rats fed daily doses of potassium canrenoate ( a compound chemically similar to spironolactone and whose primary metabolite , canrenone , is also a major product of spironolactone in man ) for a period of one year .
In two year studies in the rat , oral administration of potassium canrenoate was associated with myelocytic leukemia and hepatic , thyroid , testicular and mammary tumors .
Neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate produced mutagenic effects in tests using bacteria or yeast .
In the absence of metabolic activation , neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate has been shown to be mutagenic in mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , spironolactone has been reported to be negative in some mammalian mutagenicity tests in vitro and inconclusive ( but slightly positive ) for mutagenicity in other mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , potassium canrenoate has been reported to test positive for mutagenicity in some mammalian tests in vitro , inconclusive in others , and negative in still others .
In a three - litter reproduction study in which female rats received dietary doses of 15 and 50 mg spironolactone / kg / day , there were no effects on mating and fertility , but there was a small increase in incidence of stillborn pups at 50 mg / kg / day .
When injected into female rats ( 100 mg / kg / day for 7 days , i . p . ) , spironolactone was found to increase the length of the estrous cycle by prolonging diestrus during treatment and inducing constant diestrus during a two week posttreatment observation period .
These effects were associated with retarded ovarian follicle development and a reduction in circulating estrogen levels , which would be expected to impair mating , fertility and fecundity .
Spironolactone ( 100 mg / kg / day ) , administered i . p . to female mice during a two week cohabitation period with untreated males , decreased the number of mated mice that conceived ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of ovulation ) and decreased the number of implanted embryos in those that became pregnant ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of implantation ) , and at 200 mg / kg , also increased the latency period to mating .
HydrochlorothiazideTwo - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames assay ) and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 µg / mL , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
PregnancyTeratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category CHydrochlorothiazideStudies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg hydrochlorothiazide / kg , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
SpironolactoneTeratology studies with spironolactone have been carried out in mice and rabbits at doses of up to 20 mg / kg / day .
On a body surface area basis , this dose in the mouse is substantially below the maximum recommended human dose and , in the rabbit , approximates the maximum recommended human dose .
No teratogenic or other embryotoxic effects were observed in mice , but the 20 mg / kg dose caused an increased rate of resorption and a lower number of live fetuses in rabbits .
Because of its antiandrogenic activity and the requirement of testosterone for male morphogenesis , spironolactone may have the potential for adversely affecting sex differentiation of the male during embryogenesis .
When administered to rats at 200 mg / kg / day between gestation days 13 and 21 ( late embryogenesis and fetal development ) , feminization of male fetuses was observed .
Offspring exposed during late pregnancy to 50 and 100 mg / kg / day doses of spironolactone exhibited changes in the reproductive tract including dose - dependent decreases in weights of the ventral prostrate and seminal vesicle in males , ovaries and uteri that were enlarged in females , and other indications of endocrine dysfunction , that persisted into adulthood .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with spironolactone in pregnant women .
Spironolactone has known endocrine effects in animals including progestational and antiandrogenic effects .
The antiandrogenic effects can result in apparent estrogenic side effects in humans , such as gynecomastia .
Therefore , the use of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefit will be weighed against the possible hazards to the fetus .
Non - Teratogenic EffectsSpironolactone or its metabolites may , and hydrochlorothiazide does , cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Therefore , the use of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus .
The hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Nursing MothersCanrenone , a major ( and active ) metabolite of spironolactone , appears in human breast milk .
Because spironolactone has been found to be tumorigenic in rats , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If use of the drug is deemed essential , an alternative method of infant feeding should be instituted .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatrics patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported and , within each category ( body system ) , are listed in order of decreasing severity .
HydrochlorothiazideBody as a whole : Weakness .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension including orthostatic hypotension ( may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates , narcotics or antihypertensive drugs ) .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , diarrhea , vomiting , sialoadenitis , cramping , constipation , gastric irritation , nausea , anorexia .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing angitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , photosensitivity , fever , urticaria , rash , purpura .
Metabolic : Electrolyte imbalance ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , paresthesias , dizziness , headache , restlessness .
Renal : Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : Erythema multiforme , pruritus .
Special Senses : Transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
SpironolactoneDigestive : Gastric bleeding , ulceration , gastritis , diarrhea and cramping , nausea , vomiting .
Endocrine : Gynecomastia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , inability to achieve or maintain erection , irregular menses or amenorrhea , postmenopausal bleeding .
Carcinoma of the breast has been reported in patients taking spironolactone but a cause and effect relationship has not been established .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis .
Hypersensitivity : Fever , urticaria , maculopapular or erythematous cutaneous eruptions , anaphylactic reactions , vasculitis .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Mental confusion , ataxia , headache , drowsiness , lethargy .
Liver / Biliary : A very few cases of mixed cholestatic / hepatocellular toxicity , with one reported fatality , have been reported with spironolactone administration .
Renal : Renal dysfunction ( including renal failure ) .
OVERDOSAGE The oral LD50 of spironolactone is greater than 1 , 000 mg / kg in mice , rats , and rabbits .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
Acute overdosage of spironolactone may be manifested by drowsiness , mental confusion , maculopapular or erythematous rash , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or diarrhea .
Rarely , instances of hyponatremia , hyperkalemia ( less commonly seen with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide because the hydrochlorothiazide component tends to produce hypokalemia ) , or hepatic coma may occur in patients with severe liver disease , but these are unlikely due to acute overdosage .
However , because this product contains both spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide , the toxic effects may be intensified , and signs of thiazide overdosage may be present .
These include electrolyte imbalance such as hypokalemia and / or hyponatremia .
The potassium - sparing action of spironolactone may predominate and hyperkalemia may occur , especially in patients with impaired renal function .
BUN determinations have been reported to rise transiently with hydrochlorothiazide .
There may be CNS depression with lethargy or even coma .
TreatmentInduce vomiting or evacuate the stomach by lavage .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment is supportive to maintain hydration , electrolyte balance , and vital functions .
Patients who have renal impairment may develop spironolactone - induced hyperkalemia .
In such cases , spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately .
With severe hyperkalemia , the clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed .
These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution , sodium bicarbonate solution and / or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid - acting insulin preparation .
These are temporary measures to be repeated as required .
Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered .
Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Optimal dosage should be established by individual titration of the components ( see Box WARNING ) .
Edema in Adults ( Congestive Heart Failure , Hepatic Cirrhosis , or Nephrotic Syndrome ) The usual maintenance dose of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily , administered in a single dose or in divided doses , but may range from 25 mg to 200 mg of each component daily depending on the response to the initial titration .
In some instances it may be desirable to administer separate tablets of either spironolactone or hydrochlorothiazide in addition to spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in order to provide optimal individual therapy .
The onset of diuresis with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide occurs promptly and , due to prolonged effect of the spironolactone component , persists for two to three days after spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is discontinued .
Essential HypertensionAlthough the dosage will vary depending on the results of titration of the individual ingredients , many patients will be found to have an optimal response to 50 mg to 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily , given in a single dose or in divided doses .
Concurrent potassium supplementation is not recommended when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is used in the long - term management of hypertension or in the treatment of most edematous conditions , since the spironolactone content of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is usually sufficient to minimize loss induced by the hydrochlorothiazide component .
HOW SUPPLIED Spironolactone and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are available containing 25 mg of spironolactone , USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
The tablets are ivory , round , biconvex tablets debossed with M above the score and 41 below the score on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 54868 - 0699 - 2 bottles of 30 tablets NDC 54868 - 0699 - 1 bottles of 100 tablets Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP for Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 REV JANUARY 2005 SPHZ : R16 Repackaging and Relabeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Spironolactone and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
