Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline - encapsulated system Package Insert : Rx Only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Zithranol Shampoo contains 1 % anthralin in a shampoo base containing glyceryl monolaurate , glyceryl monomyristate , citric acid , sodium hydroxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 , Macare ® G - 2 C , and purified water .
The chemical name of anthralin is 1 , 8 - dihydroxy - 9 - anthrone and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Zithranol Shampoo contains anthralin , a synthetic compound whose precise mechanism of antipsoriatic action is not yet fully understood .
However , numerous studies have demonstrated antiproliferative and antiinflammatory effects of anthralin on psoriatic and normal skin .
The antiproliferative effects of anthralin appear to result from both an inhibition of DNA synthesis as well as from its strong reducing properties .
Recently , anthralin ’ s effectiveness as an antipsoriatic agent has also been in part attributed to its ability to induce lipid peroxidation and reduce levels of endothelial adhesion molecules , which are markedly elevated in psoriatic patients .
Unlike retinoids and PUVA , anthralin does not inhibit liver microsomal enzyme activity ; consequently , the likelihood of adverse drug interactions is greatly reduced when other agents are administered concomitantly with anthralin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zithranol Shampoo for the treatment of scalp psoriasis in subjects 12 years of age and older ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Patients should be instructed to use Zithranol Shampoo for the minimum time period necessary to achieve the desired results .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of Zithranol Shampoo is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to anthralin or to any ingredient in this preparation .
WARNINGS Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes .
Discontinue use if a sensitivity reaction occurs or if excessive irritation develops .
PRECAUTIONS General : For external use only .
Contact with fabrics , plastics and other materials may cause staining and should be avoided .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
Keep container tightly capped when not in use .
Avoid excessive heat .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Although long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the drug , there have been no reports to suggest carcinogenic effects in humans after many years of clinical use .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Zithranol Shampoo .
It is also not known whether Zithranol Shampoo can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Zithranol Shampoo should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Zithranol Shampoo is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Very few instances of contact allergic reactions to anthralin have been reported .
Transient primary irritation and staining of hair or skin may occur .
The temporary discoloration of hair and skin may be minimized by careful application .
Staining of fabrics may be permanent so contact should be avoided .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Zithranol Shampoo should be applied onto wet scalp 3 to 4 times per week ( or as directed by the physician ) .
Lather and leave on scalp for 3 to 5 minutes and then rinse thoroughly .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Although no additional shampoo is necessary to cleanse the hair , a non - medicated shampoo or conditioner can be applied following the use of Zithranol Shampoo , if desired .
If no improvement is seen after 4 weeks of treatment , consult the physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Zithranol Shampoo ( anthralin 1 % ) microcrystalline - encapsulated system is supplied in tubes .
85 g NDC 42783 - 111 - 85 7 . 5 g NDC 42783 - 111 - 07 ( physician sample size ) Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Manufactured for : Elorac , Inc .
Vernon Hills , IL 60061 U . S . Patent Pending Caution : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
© 2011 Elorac , Inc .
Rev . 01 ( 10 / 2011 ) TUBE AND CARTON PHOTO : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline encapsulated system 85 g Carton Label : NDC 42783 - 111 - 85 Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline - encapsulated system 85 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline encapsulated system 85 g Container Label : NDC 42783 - 111 - 85 Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline - encapsulated system 85 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline - encapsulated system 7 . 5 g Physician Sample Container Label : NDC 42783 - 111 - 07 Zithranol Shampoo anthralin 1 % | microcrystalline - encapsulated system 7 . 5 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
