FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , is a clear , colorless to light yellow topical solution containing calcipotriene monohydrate , a synthetic vitamin D3 derivative , for topical dermatologic use .
The chemical name of calcipotriene monohydrate is ( 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E , 24 S ) - 24 - cyclopropyl - 9 , 10 - secochola - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1α , 3β , 24 - triol monohydrate , with the empirical formula C27H40O3 ● H2O , a molecular weight of 430 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcipotriene monohydrate is a white or off - white crystalline substance .
Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) contains calcipotriene monohydrate equivalent to 50 μg / g anhydrous calcipotriene in a vehicle of hydroxypropyl cellulose , isopropyl alcohol ( 51 % v / v ) , menthol , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium citrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In humans , the natural supply of vitamin D depends mainly on exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun for conversion of 7 - dehydrocholesterol to vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) in the skin .
Calcipotriene is a synthetic analog of vitamin D3 .
Although the precise mechanism of calcipotriene ' s antipsoriatic action is not fully understood , in vitro evidence suggests that calcipotriene is roughly equipotent to the natural vitamin in its effects on proliferation and differentiation of a variety of cell types .
Calcipotriene has also been shown , in animal studies , to be 100 - 200 times less potent in its effects on calcium utilization than the natural hormone .
Clinical studies with radiolabelled calcipotriene solution indicate that less than 1 % of the applied dose of calcipotriene is absorbed through the scalp when the solution ( 2 . 0 mL ) is applied topically to normal skin or psoriasis plaques ( 160 cm2 ) for 12 hours , and that much of the absorbed calcipotriene is converted to inactive metabolites within 24 hours of application .
Vitamin D and its metabolites are transported in the blood , bound to specific plasma proteins .
The active form of the vitamin , 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D3 ( calcitriol ) , is known to be recycled via the liver and excreted in the bile .
Calcipotriene metabolism following systemic uptake is rapid , and occurs via a similar pathway to the natural hormone .
The primary metabolites are much less potent than the parent compound .
There is evidence that maternal 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D3 ( calcitriol ) may enter the fetal circulation , but it is not known whether it is excreted in human milk .
The systemic disposition of calcipotriene is expected to be similar to that of the naturally occurring vitamin .
CLINICAL STUDIES Adequate and well - controlled trials of patients treated with Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , have demonstrated improvement usually beginning after 2 weeks of therapy .
This improvement continued with approximately 31 % of patients appearing either cleared ( 14 % ) or almost cleared ( 17 % ) after 8 weeks of therapy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , is indicated for the topical treatment of chronic , moderately severe psoriasis of the scalp .
The safety and effectiveness of topical calcipotriene in dermatoses other than psoriasis have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , is contraindicated in those patients with acute psoriatic eruptions or a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
It should not be used by patients with demonstrated hypercalcemia or evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
WARNINGS Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes .
Discontinue use if a sensitivity reaction occurs or if excessive irritation develops on uninvolved skin areas .
Drug product is flammable .
Keep away from open flame .
PRECAUTIONS General Use of Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , may cause transient irritation of both lesions and surrounding uninvolved skin .
If irritation develops , Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
Reversible elevation of serum calcium has occurred with use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium outside the normal range should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored .
Information for patients Patients using Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used only as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the face or eyes .
As with any topical medication , patients should wash their hands after application .
2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
3 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of adverse reactions .
4 .
Patients that apply Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility When calcipotriene was applied topically to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 3 , 10 and 30 μg / kg / day ( corresponding to 9 , 30 and 90 μg / m2 / day ) , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
In a study in which albino hairless mice were exposed to both UVR and topically applied calcipotriene , a reduction in the time required for UVR to induce the formation of skin tumors was observed ( statistically significant in males only ) , suggesting that calcipotriene may enhance the effect of UVR to induce skin tumors .
Patients that apply Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients that use Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) .
Calcipotriene did not elicit any mutagenic effects in an Ames mutagenicity assay , a mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , a human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , or in a micronucleus assay conducted in mice .
Studies in rats at doses up to 54 μg / kg / day ( 318 μg / m2 / day ) of calcipotriene indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C : Studies of teratogenicity were done by the oral route where bioavailability is expected to be approximately 40 - 60 % of the administered dose .
Increased rabbit maternal and fetal toxicity was noted at 12 μg / kg / day ( 132 μg / m2 / day ) .
Rabbits administered 36 μg / kg / day ( 396 μg / m2 / day ) resulted in fetuses with a significant increase in the incidences of pubic bones , forelimb phalanges , and incomplete bone ossification .
In a rat study , oral doses of 54 μg / kg / day ( 318 μg / m2 / day ) resulted in a significantly higher incidence of skeletal abnormalities consisting primarily of enlarged fontanelles and extra ribs .
The enlarged fontanelles are most likely due to calcipotriene ' s effect upon calcium metabolism .
The maternal and fetal calculated no - effect exposures in the rat ( 43 . 2 μg / m2 / day ) and rabbit ( 17 . 6 μg / m2 / day ) studies are greater than the expected human systemic exposure level ( 0 . 13 μg / m2 / day ) from dermal application .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing mothers There is evidence that maternal 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D3 ( calcitriol ) may enter the fetal circulation , but it is not known whether it is excreted in human milk .
The systemic disposition of calcipotriene is expected to be similar to that of the naturally occurring vitamin .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness of Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , in pediatric patients have not been specifically established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at greater risk than adults of systemic adverse effects when they are treated with topical medication .
Geriatric use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of calcipotriene solution , approximately 16 % were 65 or older , while approximately 4 % were 75 and over .
The results of an analysis of severity of skin - related adverse events showed no differences for subjects over 65 years compared to those under 65 years , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions reported to be related to Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , use were transient burning , stinging and tingling , which occurred in approximately 23 % of patients .
Rash was reported in about 11 % of patients .
Dry skin , irritation and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 - 5 % of patients .
Skin atrophy , hyperpigmentation , hypercalcemia , and folliculitis were not observed in these studies , but cannot be excluded .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn Operating Company LLC at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied calcipotriene can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
Elevated serum calcium has been observed with excessive use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Comb the hair to remove scaly debris and after suitably parting , apply Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , twice daily , only to the lesions , and rub in gently and completely , taking care to prevent the solution spreading onto the forehead .
The safety and efficacy of Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , have been demonstrated in patients treated for eight weeks .
Keep Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , well away from the eyes .
Avoid application of the solution to uninvolved scalp margins .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
HOW SUPPLIED Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) , is available in 60 mL plastic bottles .
NDC 50383 - 732 - 02 STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid sunlight .
Do not freeze .
Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 Rev . 732 : 03 06 / 22 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN NDC 50383 - 732 - 02 Calcipotriene Topical Solution , 0 . 005 % ( Scalp Solution ) Rx only 60 mL ( 2 fl .
oz . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
