Sterile DESCRIPTION Naphazoline hydrochloride , an ocular vasoconstrictor , is an imidazoline derivative sympathomimetic amine .
It occurs as a white , odorless crystalline powder having a bitter taste and is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 2 - ( 1 - Naphthylmethyl ) - 2 - imidazoline monohydrochloride Contains : Active : naphazoline HCl 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Inactives : Boric acid ; edetate disodium ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; sodium carbonate ; and hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust the pH ( 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naphazoline constricts the vascular system of the conjunctiva .
It is presumed that this effect is due to direct stimulation of the drug upon the alpha - adrenergic receptors in the arterioles of the conjunctiva , resulting in decreased conjunctival congestion .
Naphazoline belongs to the imidazoline class of sympathomimetics .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naphazoline Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for use as a topical ocular vasoconstrictor .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in the presence of an anatomically narrow angle or in narrow - angle glaucoma or in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Patients under therapy with MAO inhibitors may experience a severe hypertensive crisis if given a sympathomimetic drug .
Use in children , especially infants , may result in CNS depression leading to coma and marked reduction in body temperature .
PRECAUTIONS General : For topical ophthalmic use only .
Use with caution in the presence of hypertension , cardiovascular abnormalities , hyperglycemia ( diabetes ) , hyperthyroidism , infection or injury .
Patient Information : Patients should be advised to discontinue the drug and consult a physician if relief is not obtained within 48 hours of therapy , if irritation , blurring or redness persists or increases , or if symptoms of systemic absorption occur , i . e . , dizziness , headache , nausea , decrease in body temperature , or drowsiness .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , do not touch the eyelids or the surrounding area with the dropper tip of the bottle .
If solution changes color or becomes cloudy , do not use .
Drug Interactions : Concurrent use of maprotiline or tricyclic antidepressants and naphazoline may potentiate the pressor effect of naphazoline .
Patients under therapy with MAO inhibitors may experience a severe hypertensive crisis if given a sympathomimetic drug .
( See WARNINGS . )
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with naphazoline .
It is also not known whether naphazoline can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Naphazoline should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether naphazoline is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when naphazoline is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
See “ WARNINGS . ”
and “ CONTRAINDICATIONS . ”
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular : Mydriasis , increased redness , irritation , discomfort , blurring , punctate keratitis , lacrimation , increased intraocular pressure .
Systemic : Dizziness , headache , nausea , sweating , nervousness , drowsiness , weakness , hypertension , cardiac irregularities , and hyperglycemia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops in the conjunctival sac ( s ) every three to four hours as needed .
HOW SUPPLIED Naphazoline Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP ) is supplied as a sterile 0 . 1 % solution in 15 mL plastic dropper bottles .
NDC 17478 - 216 - 12 Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Akorn Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
