For the preparation of intravenous solutions .
DESCRIPTION : Chlorothiazide sodium for injection , USP is a diuretic and antihypertensive .
It is 6 - chloro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide monosodium salt , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C7H5ClN3NaO4S2 M . W . 317 . 71 Chlorothiazide sodium for injection , USP is a sterile lyophilized white powder and is supplied in a vial containing : Chlorothiazide sodium equivalent to chlorothiazide 500 mg , and the inactive ingredient mannitol 250 mg with sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Chlorothiazide is a diuretic and antihypertensive .
It is 6 - chloro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C7H6ClN3O4S2 M . W . 295 . 72 It is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder , which is very slightly soluble in water , but readily soluble in dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide .
It is soluble in urine to the extent of about 150 mg per 100 mL at pH 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Chlorothiazide does not usually affect normal blood pressure .
Chlorothiazide affects the distal renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic efficacy .
Chlorothiazide increases excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Natriuresis may be accompanied by some loss of potassium and bicarbonate .
After oral use diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Following intravenous use of chlorothiazide sodium , onset of the diuretic action occurs in 15 minutes and the maximal action in 30 minutes .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Chlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney ; 96 percent of an intravenous dose is excreted unchanged in the urine within 23 hours .
The plasma half - life of chlorothiazide is 45 to 120 minutes .
Chlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Chlorothiazide sodium for injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy .
Chlorothiazide sodium for injection has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction such as nephrotic syndrome , acute glomerulonephritis , and chronic renal failure .
Use in Pregnancy Routine use of diuretics during normal pregnancy is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the gravid uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support stockings .
Use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this instance is illogical and unnecessary .
During normal pregnancy there is hypervolemia , which is not harmful to the fetus or the mother in the absence of cardiovascular disease .
However , it may be associated with edema , rarely generalized edema .
If such edema causes discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
Rarely this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these instances , a short course of diuretic therapy may provide relief and be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Anuria .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
WARNINGS : Intravenous use in infants and children has been limited and is not generally recommended .
Use with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General All patients receiving diuretic therapy should be observed for evidence of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : namely , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmias and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by use of potassium - sparing diuretics or potassium supplements such as foods with a high potassium content .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazides .
In diabetic patients dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
Laboratory Tests Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be done at appropriate intervals .
Drug Interactions When given concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics .
Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs - ( oral agents and insulin ) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation .
Corticosteroids , ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium - generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with chlorothiazide sodium .
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when chlorothiazide sodium and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with chlorothiazide .
Chlorothiazide was not mutagenic in vitro in the Ames microbial mutagen test ( using a maximum concentration of 5 mg / plate and Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 and TA100 ) and was not mutagenic and did not induce mitotic nondisjunction in diploid - strains of Aspergillus nidulans .
Chlorothiazide had no adverse effects on fertility in female rats at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day and no adverse effects on fertility in male rats at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day .
These doses are 1 . 5 and 1 . 0 times * the recommended maximum human dose , respectively , when compared on a body weight basis .
* Calculations based on a human body weight of 50 kg .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C Although reproduction studies performed with chlorothiazide doses of 50 mg / kg / day in rabbits , 60 mg / kg / day in rats and 500 mg / kg / day in mice revealed no external abnormalities of the fetus or impairment of growth and survival of the fetus due to chlorothiazide , such studies did not include complete examinations for visceral and skeletal abnormalities .
It is not known whether chlorothiazide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman ; however , thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Chlorothiazide should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Nonteratogenic Effects Chlorothiazide may cause fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from chlorothiazide sodium for injection , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of chlorothiazide sodium for injection in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of chlorothiazide sodium for injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see WARNINGS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following adverse reactions have been reported and , within each category , are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Body as a Whole - Weakness .
Cardiovascular - Hypotension including orthostatic hypotension ( may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates , narcotics or antihypertensive drugs ) .
Digestive - Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , diarrhea , vomiting , sialadenitis , cramping , constipation , gastric irritation , nausea , anorexia .
Hematologic - Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity - Anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , photosensitivity , fever , urticaria , rash , purpura .
Metabolic - Electrolyte imbalance ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal - Muscle spasm .
Nervous System / Psychiatric - Vertigo , paresthesias , dizziness , headache , restlessness .
Skin - Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis , alopecia .
Special Senses - Transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Renal - Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis , ( see WARNINGS ) ; hematuria ( following intravenous use ) .
Urogenital - Impotence .
Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe , thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn .
OVERDOSAGE : The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Correct dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , hepatic coma and hypotension by established procedures .
If required , give oxygen or artificial respiration for respiratory impairment .
The degree to which chlorothiazide sodium is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The intravenous LD50 of chlorothiazide in the mouse is 1 . 1 g / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Chlorothiazide sodium for injection should be reserved for patients unable to take oral medication or for emergency situations .
Therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
Use the smallest dosage necessary to achieve the required response .
Intravenous use in infants and children has been limited and is not generally recommended .
When medication can be taken orally , therapy with chlorothiazide tablets or oral suspension may be substituted for intravenous therapy , using the same dosage schedule as for the parenteral route .
Chlorothiazide sodium for injection may be given slowly by direct intravenous injection or by intravenous infusion .
Extravasation must be rigidly avoided .
Do not give subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
The usual adult dosage is 500 mg to 1 g once or twice a day .
Many patients with edema respond to intermittent therapy , i . e . , administration on alternate days or on three to five days each week .
With an intermittent schedule , excessive response and the resulting undesirable electrolyte imbalance are less likely to occur .
Directions for Reconstitution Use aseptic technique .
Because chlorothiazide sodium for injection contains no preservative , a fresh solution should be prepared immediately prior to each administration , and the unused portion should be discarded .
Add 18 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to the vial to form an isotonic solution for intravenous injection .
Never add less than 18 mL .
When reconstituted with 18 mL of Sterile Water , the final concentration of intravenous chlorothiazide sodium is 28 mg / mL .
The reconstituted solution is clear and essentially free from visible particles .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use whenever solution and container permit .
The solution is compatible with dextrose or sodium chloride solutions for intravenous infusion .
Avoid simultaneous administration of solutions of chlorothiazide with whole blood or its derivatives .
HOW SUPPLIED : Chlorothiazide Sodium for Injection , USP is a dry , sterile lyophilized powder , supplied as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Strength NP605820 63323 - 658 - 27 500 mg per vial Packaged individually .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Storage STORE LYOPHILIZED POWDER BETWEEN : 2 째 and 25 째 C ( 36 째 and 77 째 F ) .
For single dose only .
Use solution immediately after reconstitution .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Directions for Reconstitution . )
Discard unused portion of the reconstituted solution .
NOVAPLUS is a registered trademark of Vizient , Inc .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . us 451217 A Revised : March 2017 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINICIPAL DISPLAY - Chlorothiazide 500 mg * per vial Label Chlorothiazide Sodium for Injection , USP 500 mg * per vial For the preparation of intravenous solutions .
Single Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINICIPAL DISPLAY - Chlorothiazide 500 mg * per vial Carton Panel Chlorothiazide Sodium for Injection , USP 500 mg * per vial For the preparation of intravenous solutions .
Rx only Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
