WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin - associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the full prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue SYNJARDY XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age ≥ 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue SYNJARDY XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) 10 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SYNJARDY XR is a combination of empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
SYNJARDY XR is a combination of empagliflozin , a sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor and metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) , a biguanide , indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use SYNJARDY XR is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Assess renal function before initiating and as clinically indicated ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Individualize the starting dose based on the patient ' s current regimen and renal function ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • Initiation is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , due to the metformin component ( 2 . 3 ) • The maximum recommended total daily dose is 25 mg empagliflozin and 2000 mg metformin HCl ( 2 . 2 ) • Take once daily with a meal in the morning , with gradual dose escalation to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects due to metformin ( 2 . 2 ) • Swallow whole ; do not split , crush , dissolve , or chew ( 2 . 2 ) • SYNJARDY XR may need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Prior to Initiation of SYNJARDY XR • Assess renal function before initiating SYNJARDY XR and as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
• In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating SYNJARDY XR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration • Individualize the starting dose of SYNJARDY XR based on the patient ' s current regimen : • In patients on metformin HCl , switch to SYNJARDY XR containing a similar total daily dose of metformin HCl and a total daily dose of empagliflozin 10 mg ; • In patients on empagliflozin , switch to SYNJARDY XR containing the same total daily dose of empagliflozin and a total daily dose of metformin HCl extended - release 1000 mg ; • In patients already treated with empagliflozin and metformin HCl , switch to SYNJARDY XR containing the same total daily doses of empagliflozin and a similar total daily dose of metformin HCl .
• Monitor effectiveness and tolerability , and adjust dosing as appropriate , not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose of empagliflozin 25 mg and metformin HCl 2000 mg .
• The dose of metformin HCl should be gradually escalated to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects due to metformin .
• Take SYNJARDY XR orally once daily with a meal in the morning • Swallow SYNJARDY XR tablets whole .
Do not split , crush , dissolve , or chew .
• SYNJARDY XR 10 mg / 1000 mg and 25 mg / 1000 mg tablets should be taken as a single tablet once daily .
SYNJARDY XR 5 mg / 1000 mg and 12 . 5 mg / 1000 mg tablets should be taken as two tablets together once daily .
2 . 3 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment • Initiation of SYNJARDY XR is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , due to the metformin component .
• SYNJARDY XR is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 or in patients on dialysis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue SYNJARDY XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart SYNJARDY XR if renal function is stable [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS SYNJARDY XR Tablets : Empagliflozin Strength Metformin HCl Strength Color / Shape Tablet Markings 5 mg 1000 mg olive green , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S5 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
10 mg 1000 mg orange , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S10 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
12 . 5 mg 1000 mg blue , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S12 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
25 mg 1000 mg light green , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S25 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
Tablets : • 5 mg empagliflozin / 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release ( 3 ) • 10 mg empagliflozin / 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release ( 3 ) • 12 . 5 mg empagliflozin / 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release ( 3 ) • 25 mg empagliflozin / 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SYNJARDY XR is contraindicated in patients with : • Severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , end stage renal disease , or dialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to empagliflozin , metformin or any of the excipients in SYNJARDY XR , reactions such as angioedema have occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Severe renal impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , end stage renal disease , or on dialysis ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 , 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to empagliflozin , metformin or any of the excipients in SYNJARDY XR ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Lactic Acidosis : See boxed warning ( 5 . 1 ) • Ketoacidosis : Assess patients who present with signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis for ketoacidosis , regardless of blood glucose level .
If suspected , discontinue SYNJARDY XR , evaluate and treat promptly .
Before initiating SYNJARDY XR , consider risk factors for ketoacidosis .
Patients on SYNJARDY XR may require monitoring and temporary discontinuation of therapy in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis .
( 5 . 2 ) • Volume Depletion : Before initiating SYNJARDY XR , assess volume status and renal function in patients with impaired renal function , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics .
Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy .
( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis : Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated ( 5 . 4 ) • Hypoglycemia : Consider lowering the dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when initiating SYNJARDY XR ( 5 . 5 ) • Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) : Serious , life - threatening cases have occurred in both females and males .
Assess patients presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise .
If suspected , institute prompt treatment .
( 5 . 6 ) • Genital Mycotic Infections : Monitor and treat as appropriate ( 5 . 7 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , angioedema ) have occurred with empagliflozin .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue SYNJARDY XR , treat promptly , and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve ( 5 . 8 ) • Vitamin B12 Deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters annually and vitamin B12 at 2 to 3 year intervals and manage any abnormalities .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate : pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of SYNJARDY XR .
In SYNJARDY XR - treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin is dialyzable , with a clearance of up to 170 mL / minute under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue SYNJARDY XR and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : Renal Impairment : The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ' s renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Before initiating SYNJARDY XR , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
• SYNJARDY XR is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking SYNJARDY XR .
In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
Drug Interactions : The concomitant use of SYNJARDY XR with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance or increase metformin accumulation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Therefore , consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
Age 65 or Greater : The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ' s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Radiological Studies with Contrast : Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop SYNJARDY XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart SYNJARDY XR if renal function is stable .
Surgery and Other Procedures : Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension and renal impairment .
SYNJARDY XR should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
Hypoxic States : Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur , discontinue SYNJARDY XR .
Excessive Alcohol Intake : Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism and this may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving SYNJARDY XR .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of SYNJARDY XR in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Ketoacidosis Reports of ketoacidosis , a serious life - threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co - transporter - 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have been reported in patients taking empagliflozin .
In placebo - controlled trials of patients with type 1 diabetes , the risk of ketoacidosis was increased in patients who received SGLT2 inhibitors compared to patients who received placebo .
SYNJARDY XR is not indicated for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Patients treated with SYNJARDY XR who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels , as ketoacidosis associated with SYNJARDY XR may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg / dL .
If ketoacidosis is suspected , SYNJARDY XR should be discontinued , patient should be evaluated , and prompt treatment should be instituted .
Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin , fluid and carbohydrate replacement .
In many of the postmarketing reports , and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes , the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized and institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for diabetic ketoacidosis ( often less than 250 mg / dL ) .
Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , generalized malaise , and shortness of breath .
In some but not all cases , factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as insulin dose reduction , acute febrile illness , reduced caloric intake , surgery , pancreatic disorders suggesting insulin deficiency ( e . g . , type 1 diabetes , history of pancreatitis or pancreatic surgery ) , and alcohol abuse were identified .
Before initiating SYNJARDY XR , consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency from any cause , caloric restriction , and alcohol abuse .
For patients who undergo scheduled surgery , consider temporarily discontinuing SYNJARDY XR for at least 3 days prior to surgery [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider monitoring for ketoacidosis and temporarily discontinuing SYNJARDY XR in other clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis ( e . g . , prolonged fasting due to acute illness or post - surgery ) .
Ensure risk factors for ketoacidosis are resolved prior to restarting SYNJARDY XR .
Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of ketoacidosis and instruct patients to discontinue SYNJARDY XR and seek medical attention immediately if signs and symptoms occur .
5 . 3 Volume Depletion Empagliflozin can cause intravascular volume depletion which may sometimes manifest as symptomatic hypotension or acute transient changes in creatinine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
There have been post - marketing reports of acute kidney injury , some requiring hospitalization and dialysis , in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Patients with impaired renal function ( eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension .
Before initiating SYNJARDY XR in patients with one or more of these characteristics , assess volume status and renal function .
In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating SYNJARDY XR .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion , and renal function after initiating therapy .
5 . 4 Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis There have been reports of serious urinary tract infections including urosepsis and pyelonephritis requiring hospitalization in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors increases the risk for urinary tract infections .
Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia .
The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when SYNJARDY XR is used in combination with insulin secretagogues ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Therefore , a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with SYNJARDY XR .
5 . 6 Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Reports of necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) , a rare but serious and life - threatening necrotizing infection requiring urgent surgical intervention , have been identified in patients with diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Cases have been reported in both females and males .
Serious outcomes have included hospitalization , multiple surgeries , and death .
Patients treated with SYNJARDY XR presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise , should be assessed for necrotizing fasciitis .
If suspected , start treatment immediately with broad - spectrum antibiotics and , if necessary , surgical debridement .
Discontinue SYNJARDY XR , closely monitor blood glucose levels , and provide appropriate alternative therapy for glycemic control .
5 . 7 Genital Mycotic Infections Empagliflozin increases the risk for genital mycotic infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with a history of chronic or recurrent genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections .
Monitor and treat as appropriate .
5 . 8 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions , ( e . g . , angioedema ) in patients treated with empagliflozin .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue SYNJARDY XR ; treat promptly per standard of care , and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve .
SYNJARDY XR is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to empagliflozin or any of the excipients in SYNJARDY XR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Vitamin B12 Deficiency In metformin clinical trials of 29 - week duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of metformin - treated patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , may be associated with anemia but appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters on an annual basis and vitamin B12 at 2 to 3 year intervals in patients on SYNJARDY XR and manage any abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Lactic Acidosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Volume Depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Genital Mycotic Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Vitamin B12 Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Most common adverse reactions associated with empagliflozin ( 5 % or greater incidence ) were urinary tract infection and female genital mycotic infections .
( 6 . 1 ) • Most common adverse reactions associated with metformin ( > 5 % ) are diarrhea , nausea / vomiting , flatulence , abdominal discomfort , indigestion , asthenia , and headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of concomitantly administered empagliflozin ( daily dose 10 mg and 25 mg ) and metformin hydrochloride ( mean daily dose of approximately 1800 mg ) has been evaluated in 3456 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated for 16 to 24 weeks , of which 926 patients received placebo , 1271 patients received a daily dose of empagliflozin 10 mg , and 1259 patients received a daily dose of empagliflozin 25 mg .
Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events across treatment groups was 3 . 0 % , 2 . 8 % , and 2 . 9 % for placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Empagliflozin Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin In a 24 - week placebo - controlled trial of empagliflozin 10 mg and 25 mg administered once daily added to metformin , there were no adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients and more commonly than in patients given placebo .
Empagliflozin Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin and Sulfonylurea In a 24 - week placebo - controlled trial of empagliflozin 10 mg and 25 mg administered once daily added to metformin and sulfonylurea , adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients and more commonly than in patients given placebo are presented in Table 1 ( see also Table 4 ) .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients Treated with Empagliflozin added on to Metformin plus Sulfonylurea and Greater than with Placebo in a 24 - week Placebo Controlled Clinical StudyAdverse Reactions Placebo ( % ) n = 225 Empagliflozin 10 mg ( % ) n = 224 Empagliflozin 25 mg ( % ) n = 217 Hypoglycemia 9 . 8 15 . 6 12 . 9 Urinary tract infection 6 . 7 9 . 4 6 . 9 Nasopharyngitis 4 . 9 8 . 0 6 . 0 Empagliflozin The data in Table 2 are derived from a pool of four 24 - week placebo - controlled trials and 18 - week data from a placebo - controlled trial with basal insulin .
Empagliflozin was used as monotherapy in one trial and as add - on therapy in four trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
These data reflect exposure of 1976 patients to empagliflozin with a mean exposure duration of approximately 23 weeks .
Patients received placebo ( N = 995 ) , empagliflozin 10 mg ( N = 999 ) , or empagliflozin 25 mg ( N = 977 ) once daily .
The mean age of the population was 56 years and 3 % were older than 75 years of age .
More than half ( 55 % ) of the population was male ; 46 % were White , 50 % were Asian , and 3 % were Black or African American .
At baseline , 57 % of the population had diabetes more than 5 years and had a mean hemoglobin A1c ( HbA1c ) of 8 % .
Established microvascular complications of diabetes at baseline included diabetic nephropathy ( 7 % ) , retinopathy ( 8 % ) , or neuropathy ( 16 % ) .
Baseline renal function was normal or mildly impaired in 91 % of patients and moderately impaired in 9 % of patients ( mean eGFR 86 . 8 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
Table 2 shows common adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) associated with the use of empagliflozin .
The adverse reactions were not present at baseline , occurred more commonly on empagliflozin than on placebo and occurred in greater than or equal to 2 % of patients treated with empagliflozin 10 mg or empagliflozin 25 mg .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with Empagliflozin and Greater than Placebo in Pooled Placebo - Controlled Clinical Studies of Empagliflozin Monotherapy or Combination TherapyAdverse Reactions Placebo ( % ) N = 995 Empagliflozin 10 mg ( % ) N = 999 Empagliflozin 25 mg ( % ) N = 977 aPredefined adverse event grouping , including , but not limited to , urinary tract infection , asymptomatic bacteriuria , cystitis bFemale genital mycotic infections include the following adverse reactions : vulvovaginal mycotic infection , vaginal infection , vulvitis , vulvovaginal candidiasis , genital infection , genital candidiasis , genital infection fungal , genitourinary tract infection , vulvovaginitis , cervicitis , urogenital infection fungal , vaginitis bacterial .
Percentages calculated with the number of female subjects in each group as denominator : placebo ( N = 481 ) , empagliflozin 10 mg ( N = 443 ) , empagliflozin 25 mg ( N = 420 ) .
cPredefined adverse event grouping , including , but not limited to , polyuria , pollakiuria , and nocturia dMale genital mycotic infections include the following adverse reactions : balanoposthitis , balanitis , genital infections fungal , genitourinary tract infection , balanitis candida , scrotal abscess , penile infection .
Percentages calculated with the number of male subjects in each group as denominator : placebo ( N = 514 ) , empagliflozin 10 mg ( N = 556 ) , empagliflozin 25 mg ( N = 557 ) .
Urinary tract infectiona 7 . 6 9 . 3 7 . 6 Female genital mycotic infectionsb 1 . 5 5 . 4 6 . 4 Upper respiratory tract infection 3 . 8 3 . 1 4 . 0 Increased urinationc 1 . 0 3 . 4 3 . 2 Dyslipidemia 3 . 4 3 . 9 2 . 9 Arthralgia 2 . 2 2 . 4 2 . 3 Male genital mycotic infectionsd 0 . 4 3 . 1 1 . 6 Nausea 1 . 4 2 . 3 1 . 1 Thirst ( including polydipsia ) was reported in 0 % , 1 . 7 % , and 1 . 5 % for placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Volume Depletion Empagliflozin causes an osmotic diuresis , which may lead to intravascular volume contraction and adverse reactions related to volume depletion .
In the pool of five placebo - controlled clinical trials , adverse reactions related to volume depletion ( e . g . , blood pressure ( ambulatory ) decreased , blood pressure systolic decreased , dehydration , hypotension , hypovolemia , orthostatic hypotension , and syncope ) were reported by 0 . 3 % , 0 . 5 % , and 0 . 3 % of patients treated with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Empagliflozin may increase the risk of hypotension in patients at risk for volume contraction [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
Increased Urination In the pool of five placebo - controlled clinical trials , adverse reactions of increased urination ( e . g . , polyuria , pollakiuria , and nocturia ) occurred more frequently on empagliflozin than on placebo ( see Table 2 ) .
Specifically , nocturia was reported by 0 . 4 % , 0 . 3 % , and 0 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Hypoglycemia The incidence of hypoglycemia by study is shown in Table 3 .
The incidence of hypoglycemia increased when empagliflozin was administered with insulin or sulfonylurea .
Table 3 Incidence of Overalla and Severeb Hypoglycemic Events in Placebo - Controlled Clinical StudiescaOverall hypoglycemic events : plasma or capillary glucose of less than or equal to 70 mg / dL bSevere hypoglycemic events : requiring assistance regardless of blood glucose cTreated set ( patients who had received at least one dose of study drug ) dInsulin dose could not be adjusted during the initial 18 - week treatment period Monotherapy ( 24 weeks ) Placebo ( n = 229 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg ( n = 224 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg ( n = 223 ) Overall ( % ) 0 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 4 Severe ( % ) 0 0 0 In Combination with Metformin ( 24 weeks ) Placebo + Metformin ( n = 206 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin ( n = 217 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin ( n = 214 ) Overall ( % ) 0 . 5 1 . 8 1 . 4 Severe ( % ) 0 0 0 In Combination with Metformin + Sulfonylurea ( 24 weeks ) Placebo ( n = 225 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin + Sulfonylurea ( n = 224 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin + Sulfonylurea ( n = 217 ) Overall ( % ) 8 . 4 16 . 1 11 . 5 Severe ( % ) 0 0 0 In Combination with Pioglitazone + / - Metformin ( 24 weeks ) Placebo ( n = 165 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg + Pioglitazone + / - Metformin ( n = 165 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg + Pioglitazone + / - Metformin ( n = 168 ) Overall ( % ) 1 . 8 1 . 2 2 . 4 Severe ( % ) 0 0 0 In Combination with Basal Insulin + / - Metformin ( 18 weeksd ) Placebo ( n = 170 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg ( n = 169 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg ( n = 155 ) Overall ( % ) 20 . 6 19 . 5 28 . 4 Severe ( % ) 0 0 1 . 3 In Combination with MDI Insulin + / - Metformin ( 18 weeksd ) Placebo ( n = 188 ) Empagliflozin 10 mg ( n = 186 ) Empagliflozin 25 mg ( n = 189 ) Overall ( % ) 37 . 2 39 . 8 41 . 3 Severe ( % ) 0 . 5 0 . 5 0 . 5 Genital Mycotic Infections In the pool of five placebo - controlled clinical trials , the incidence of genital mycotic infections ( e . g . , vaginal mycotic infection , vaginal infection , genital infection fungal , vulvovaginal candidiasis , and vulvitis ) was increased in patients treated with empagliflozin compared to placebo , occurring in 0 . 9 % , 4 . 1 % , and 3 . 7 % of patients randomized to placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Discontinuation from study due to genital infection occurred in 0 % of placebo - treated patients and 0 . 2 % of patients treated with either empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg .
Genital mycotic infections occurred more frequently in female than male patients ( see Table 2 ) .
Phimosis occurred more frequently in male patients treated with empagliflozin 10 mg ( less than 0 . 1 % ) and empagliflozin 25 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) than placebo ( 0 % ) .
Urinary Tract Infections In the pool of five placebo - controlled clinical trials , the incidence of urinary tract infections ( e . g . , urinary tract infection , asymptomatic bacteriuria , and cystitis ) was increased in patients treated with empagliflozin compared to placebo ( see Table 2 ) .
Patients with a history of chronic or recurrent urinary tract infections were more likely to experience a urinary tract infection .
The rate of treatment discontinuation due to urinary tract infections was 0 . 1 % , 0 . 2 % , and 0 . 1 % for placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Urinary tract infections occurred more frequently in female patients .
The incidence of urinary tract infections in female patients randomized to placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg was 16 . 6 % , 18 . 4 % , and 17 . 0 % , respectively .
The incidence of urinary tract infections in male patients randomized to placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg was 3 . 2 % , 3 . 6 % , and 4 . 1 % , respectively [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Metformin The most common ( > 5 % ) established adverse reactions due to initiation of metformin therapy are diarrhea , nausea / vomiting , flatulence , abdominal discomfort , indigestion , asthenia , and headache .
In a 24 - week clinical trial in which extended - release metformin or placebo was added to glyburide therapy , the most common ( > 5 % and greater than placebo ) adverse reactions in the combined treatment group were hypoglycemia ( 13 . 7 % vs 4 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 12 . 5 % vs 5 . 6 % ) , and nausea ( 6 . 7 % vs 4 . 2 % ) .
Laboratory Tests Empagliflozin Increases in Serum Creatinine and Decreases in eGFR : Initiation of empagliflozin causes an increase in serum creatinine and decrease in eGFR within weeks of starting therapy and then these changes stabilize .
In a study of patients with moderate renal impairment , larger mean changes were observed .
In a long - term cardiovascular outcomes trial , the increase in serum creatinine and decrease in eGFR generally did not exceed 0 . 1 mg / dL and - 9 . 0 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , respectively , at Week 4 , and reversed after treatment discontinuation , suggesting acute hemodynamic changes may play a role in the renal function changes observed with empagliflozin .
Increase in Low - Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol ( LDL - C ) : Dose - related increases in low - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - C ) were observed in patients treated with empagliflozin .
LDL - C increased by 2 . 3 % , 4 . 6 % , and 6 . 5 % in patients treated with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
The range of mean baseline LDL - C levels was 90 . 3 to 90 . 6 mg / dL across treatment groups .
Increase in Hematocrit : In a pool of four placebo - controlled studies , median hematocrit decreased by 1 . 3 % in placebo and increased by 2 . 8 % in empagliflozin 10 mg and 2 . 8 % in empagliflozin 25 mg - treated patients .
At the end of treatment , 0 . 6 % , 2 . 7 % , and 3 . 5 % of patients with hematocrits initially within the reference range had values above the upper limit of the reference range with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Metformin Decrease in Vitamin B12 : In metformin clinical trials of 29 - week duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Empagliflozin • Gastrointestinal Disorders : Constipation • Infections : Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) , urosepsis and pyelonephritis • Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Ketoacidosis • Renal and Urinary Disorders : Acute kidney injury • Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioedema , skin reactions ( e . g . , rash , urticaria ) Metformin hydrochloride • Hepatobiliary Disorders : Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 Clinically Relevant Interactions with SYNJARDY XRCarbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with SYNJARDY XR may increase the risk of lactic acidosis .
Intervention Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
Alcohol Clinical Impact Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Intervention Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving SYNJARDY XR .
Diuretics Clinical Impact Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids , which might enhance the potential for volume depletion .
Intervention Before initiating SYNJARDY XR , assess volume status and renal function .
In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating SYNJARDY XR .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion , and renal function after initiating therapy .
Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when SYNJARDY XR is used in combination with insulin secretagogues ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin .
Intervention Coadministration of SYNJARDY XR with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
Intervention When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving SYNJARDY XR , the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving SYNJARDY XR , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations .
Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SYNJARDY XR initiation and dosage changes .
Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests .
Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
Interference with 1 , 5 - anhydroglucitol ( 1 , 5 - AG ) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1 , 5 - AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors .
Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1 , 5 - AG assay is not recommended .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
• Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors : May increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring .
( 7 ) • Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance : May increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider benefits and risks of concomitant use .
( 7 ) • See full prescribing information for additional drug interactions and information on interference of SYNJARDY XR with laboratory tests .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Advise females of the potential risk to a fetus especially during the second and third trimesters .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Not recommended when breastfeeding .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy .
( 8 . 3 ) • Geriatric Patients : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to volume depletion and reduced renal function .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) • Renal Impairment : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to reduced renal function ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data showing adverse renal effects from empagliflozin , SYNJARDY XR is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy .
The limited available data with SYNJARDY XR or empagliflozin in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
Published studies with metformin use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defect or miscarriage risk ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal studies , empagliflozin , a component of SYNJARDY XR , resulted in adverse renal changes in rats when administered during a period of renal development corresponding to the late second and third trimesters of human pregnancy .
Doses approximately 13 - times the maximum clinical dose caused renal pelvic and tubule dilatations that were reversible .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when metformin was administered to pregnant rats or rabbits ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 % to 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 % to 25 % in women with HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk : Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from postmarketing studies have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when metformin was used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any metformin - associated risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Empagliflozin : Empagliflozin dosed directly to juvenile rats from postnatal day ( PND ) 21 until PND 90 at doses of 1 , 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day caused increased kidney weights and renal tubular and pelvic dilatation at 100 mg / kg / day , which approximates 13 - times the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg , based on AUC .
These findings were not observed after a 13 - week , drug - free recovery period .
These outcomes occurred with drug exposure during periods of renal development in rats that correspond to the late second and third trimester of human renal development .
In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , empagliflozin was administered for intervals coinciding with the first trimester period of organogenesis in humans .
Doses up to 300 mg / kg / day , which approximates 48 - times ( rats ) and 128 - times ( rabbits ) the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg ( based on AUC ) , did not result in adverse developmental effects .
In rats , at higher doses of empagliflozin causing maternal toxicity , malformations of limb bones increased in fetuses at 700 mg / kg / day or 154 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose .
Empagliflozin crosses the placenta and reaches fetal tissues in rats .
In the rabbit , higher doses of empagliflozin resulted in maternal and fetal toxicity at 700 mg / kg / day , or 139 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose .
In pre - and postnatal development studies in pregnant rats , empagliflozin was administered from gestation day 6 through to lactation day 20 ( weaning ) at up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 16 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose ) without maternal toxicity .
Reduced body weight was observed in the offspring at greater than or equal to 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose ) .
Metformin hydrochloride : Metformin hydrochloride did not cause adverse developmental effects when administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
This represents an exposure of approximately 2 - and 6 - times a clinical dose of 2000 mg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Empagliflozin and Metformin hydrochloride : No adverse developmental effects were observed when empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride were coadministered to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at exposures of approximately 35 - and 14 - times the clinical AUC exposure of empagliflozin associated with the 10 mg and 25 mg doses , respectively , and 4 - times the clinical AUC exposure of metformin associated with the 2000 mg dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information regarding the presence of SYNJARDY XR or its components ( empagliflozin or metformin ) in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Limited published studies report that metformin is present in human milk ( see Data ) .
Empagliflozin is present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Since human kidney maturation occurs in utero and during the first 2 years of life when lactational exposure may occur , there may be risk to the developing human kidney .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed infant , including the potential for empagliflozin to affect postnatal renal development , advise patients that use of SYNJARDY XR is not recommended while breastfeeding .
Data Published clinical lactation studies report that metformin is present in human milk which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 11 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 13 and 1 .
However , the studies were not designed to definitely establish the risk of use of metformin during lactation because of small sample size and limited adverse event data collected in infants .
Empagliflozin was present at a low level in rat fetal tissues after a single oral dose to the dams at gestation day 18 .
In rat milk , the mean milk to plasma ratio ranged from 0 . 634 to 5 , and was greater than one from 2 to 24 hours post - dose .
The mean maximal milk to plasma ratio of 5 occurred at 8 hours post - dose , suggesting accumulation of empagliflozin in the milk .
Juvenile rats directly exposed to empagliflozin showed a risk to the developing kidney ( renal pelvic and tubular dilatations ) during maturation .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as therapy with metformin may result in ovulation in some anovulatory women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of SYNJARDY XR have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Assess renal function more frequently in SYNJARDY XR - treated geriatric patients because there is a greater risk of empagliflozin - associated intravascular volume contraction and symptomatic hypotension in geriatric patients and there is a greater risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis in geriatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended dosage for the metformin component of SYNJARDY XR in geriatric patients should usually start at the lower end of the dosage range .
Empagliflozin In empagliflozin type 2 diabetes studies , 2721 empagliflozin - treated patients were 65 years of age and older and 491 patients were 75 years of age and older .
In these studies , volume depletion - related adverse reactions occurred in 2 . 1 % , 2 . 3 % , and 4 . 4 % of patients 75 years of age and older in the placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg once daily groups , respectively ; and urinary tract infections occurred in 10 . 5 % , 15 . 7 % , and 15 . 1 % of patients 75 years of age and older in the placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg once daily groups , respectively .
Metformin Clinical studies of metformin did not include sufficient numbers of geriatric patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger adult patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment SYNJARDY XR should not be initiated in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 due to the metformin component and is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , end - stage renal disease , or dialysis .
Empagliflozin The glucose lowering benefit of empagliflozin 25 mg decreased in patients with worsening renal function .
The risks of renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , volume depletion adverse reactions and urinary tract infection - related adverse reactions increased with worsening renal function .
Metformin Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin hydrochloride in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
SYNJARDY XR is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose with SYNJARDY XR , contact the Poison Control Center .
Overdose of metformin HCl has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
Removal of empagliflozin by hemodialysis has not been studied .
11 DESCRIPTION SYNJARDY XR tablets for oral use contain : empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride .
Empagliflozin Empagliflozin is an inhibitor of the sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) .
The chemical name of empagliflozin is D - Glucitol , 1 , 5 - anhydro - 1 - C - [ 4 - chloro - 3 - [ [ 4 - [ [ ( 3 S ) - tetrahydro - 3 - furanyl ] oxy ] phenyl ] methyl ] phenyl ] - , ( 1 S ) .
Its molecular formula is C23H27ClO7 and the molecular weight is 450 . 91 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Empagliflozin is a white to yellowish , non - hygroscopic powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol , slightly soluble in ethanol and acetonitrile ; soluble in 50 % acetonitrile / water ; and practically insoluble in toluene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is a biguanide .
Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 ∙ HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each film - coated tablet of SYNJARDY XR consists of an extended - release metformin hydrochloride core tablet that is coated with the immediate - release drug substance empagliflozin .
SYNJARDY XR tablets for oral administration are available in four dosage strengths containing : • 5 mg empagliflozin and 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride extended - release • 10 mg empagliflozin and 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride extended - release • 12 . 5 mg empagliflozin and 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride extended - release • 25 mg empagliflozin and 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride extended - release Each film - coated tablet of SYNJARDY XR contains the following inactive ingredients : Tablet Core : polyethylene oxide , hypromellose , and magnesium stearate .
Film Coatings and Printing Ink : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , talc , carnauba wax , purified water , ferrosoferric oxide , propylene glycol , isopropyl alcohol , ferric oxide yellow ( 5 mg / 1000 mg , 10 mg / 1000 mg , 25 mg / 1000 mg ) , ferric oxide red ( 10 mg / 1000 mg ) , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake ( 12 . 5 mg / 1000 mg , 25 mg / 1000 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action SYNJARDY XR SYNJARDY XR contains : empagliflozin , a sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor , and metformin , a biguanide .
Empagliflozin Empagliflozin is an inhibitor of the sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) , the predominant transporter responsible for reabsorption of glucose from the glomerular filtrate back into the circulation .
By inhibiting SGLT2 , empagliflozin reduces renal reabsorption of filtered glucose and lowers the renal threshold for glucose , and thereby increases urinary glucose excretion .
Metformin HCl Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
It is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike SUs , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Empagliflozin Urinary Glucose Excretion In patients with type 2 diabetes , urinary glucose excretion increased immediately following a dose of empagliflozin and was maintained at the end of a 4 - week treatment period averaging at approximately 64 grams per day with 10 mg empagliflozin and 78 grams per day with 25 mg empagliflozin once daily [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Data from single oral doses of empagliflozin in healthy subjects indicate that , on average , the elevation in urinary glucose excretion approaches baseline by about 3 days for the 10 mg and 25 mg doses .
Urinary Volume In a 5 - day study , mean 24 - hour urine volume increase from baseline was 341 mL on Day 1 and 135 mL on Day 5 of empagliflozin 25 mg once daily treatment .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled , active - comparator , crossover study , 30 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of empagliflozin 25 mg , empagliflozin 200 mg ( 8 times the maximum dose ) , moxifloxacin , and placebo .
No increase in QTc was observed with either 25 mg or 200 mg empagliflozin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics SYNJARDY XR Administration of SYNJARDY XR with food resulted in no change in overall exposure of empagliflozin .
For metformin hydrochloride extended - release high - fat meals increased systemic exposure to metformin ( as measured by area - under - the - curve [ AUC ] ) by approximately 70 % relative to fasting , while Cmax is not affected .
Meals prolonged Tmax by approximately 3 hours .
Empagliflozin Absorption The pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin has been characterized in healthy volunteers and patients with type 2 diabetes and no clinically relevant differences were noted between the two populations .
After oral administration , peak plasma concentrations of empagliflozin were reached at 1 . 5 hours post - dose .
Thereafter , plasma concentrations declined in a biphasic manner with a rapid distribution phase and a relatively slow terminal phase .
The steady - state mean plasma AUC and Cmax were 1870 nmol ∙ h / L and 259 nmol / L , respectively , with 10 mg empagliflozin once daily treatment , and 4740 nmol ∙ h / L and 687 nmol / L , respectively , with 25 mg empagliflozin once daily treatment .
Systemic exposure of empagliflozin increased in a dose - proportional manner in the therapeutic dose range .
The single - dose and steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of empagliflozin were similar , suggesting linear pharmacokinetics with respect to time .
Distribution The apparent steady - state volume of distribution was estimated to be 73 . 8 L based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] - empagliflozin solution to healthy subjects , the red blood cell partitioning was approximately 36 . 8 % and plasma protein binding was 86 . 2 % .
Elimination The apparent terminal elimination half - life of empagliflozin was estimated to be 12 . 4 h and apparent oral clearance was 10 . 6 L / h based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Following once - daily dosing , up to 22 % accumulation , with respect to plasma AUC , was observed at steady - state , which was consistent with empagliflozin half - life .
Metabolism : No major metabolites of empagliflozin were detected in human plasma and the most abundant metabolites were three glucuronide conjugates ( 2 - O - , 3 - O - , and 6 - O - glucuronide ) .
Systemic exposure of each metabolite was less than 10 % of total drug - related material .
In vitro studies suggested that the primary route of metabolism of empagliflozin in humans is glucuronidation by the uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferases UGT2B7 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , and UGT1A9 .
Excretion : Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] - empagliflozin solution to healthy subjects , approximately 95 . 6 % of the drug - related radioactivity was eliminated in feces ( 41 . 2 % ) or urine ( 54 . 4 % ) .
The majority of drug - related radioactivity recovered in feces was unchanged parent drug and approximately half of drug - related radioactivity excreted in urine was unchanged parent drug .
Metformin Absorption Following a single oral dose of 1000 mg ( 2 × 500 mg tablets ) metformin hydrochloride extended - release after a meal , the time to reach maximum plasma metformin concentration ( Tmax ) is achieved at approximately 7 to 8 hours .
In both single - and multiple - dose studies in healthy subjects , once daily 1000 mg ( 2 × 500 mg tablets ) dosing provides equivalent systemic exposure , as measured by AUC , and up to 35 % higher Cmax of metformin relative to the immediate - release given as 500 mg twice daily .
Single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride extended - release from 500 mg to 2500 mg resulted in less than proportional increase in both AUC and Cmax .
Low - fat and high - fat meals increased the systemic exposure ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin extended - release tablets by about 38 % and 73 % , respectively , relative to fasting .
Both meals prolonged metformin Tmax by approximately 3 hours but Cmax was not affected .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of immediate - release metformin hydrochloride tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
Elimination Metformin has a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Metabolism : Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Excretion : Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is excreted via the renal route within the first 24 hours .
Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment SYNJARDY XR : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin and metformin after administration of SYNJARDY XR in renally impaired patients have not been performed .
Empagliflozin : In patients with mild ( eGFR : 60 to less than 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( eGFR : 30 to less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and severe ( eGFR : less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment and patients on dialysis due to kidney failure , AUC of empagliflozin increased by approximately 18 % , 20 % , 66 % , and 48 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Peak plasma levels of empagliflozin were similar in patients with moderate renal impairment and patients on dialysis due to kidney failure compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Peak plasma levels of empagliflozin were roughly 20 % higher in patients with mild and severe renal impairment as compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the apparent oral clearance of empagliflozin decreased with a decrease in eGFR leading to an increase in drug exposure .
However , the fraction of empagliflozin that was excreted unchanged in urine , and urinary glucose excretion , declined with decrease in eGFR .
Metformin : In patients with decreased renal function , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment SYNJARDY XR : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin and metformin after administration of SYNJARDY XR in hepatically impaired patients have not been performed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Empagliflozin : In patients with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment according to the Child - Pugh classification , AUC of empagliflozin increased by approximately 23 % , 47 % , and 75 % , and Cmax increased by approximately 4 % , 23 % , and 48 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
Metformin hydrochloride : No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Effects of Age , Body Mass Index , Gender , and Race Empagliflozin : Based on the population PK analysis , age , body mass index ( BMI ) , gender and race ( Asians versus primarily Whites ) do not have a clinically meaningful effect on pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Metformin hydrochloride : Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus when analyzed according to gender .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin was comparable in males and females .
No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin HCl in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in Caucasians ( n = 249 ) , Blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Geriatric SYNJARDY XR : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin and metformin after administration of SYNJARDY XR in geriatric patients have not been performed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Empagliflozin : Age did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Metformin hydrochloride : Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared with healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function .
Drug Interactions Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with SYNJARDY XR have not been performed ; however , such studies have been conducted with the individual components empagliflozin and metformin HCl .
Empagliflozin In vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions : Empagliflozin does not inhibit , inactivate , or induce CYP450 isoforms .
In vitro data suggest that the primary route of metabolism of empagliflozin in humans is glucuronidation by the uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferases UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 , and UGT2B7 .
Empagliflozin does not inhibit UGT1A1 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 , or UGT2B7 .
Therefore , no effect of empagliflozin is anticipated on concomitantly administered drugs that are substrates of the major CYP450 isoforms or UGT1A1 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 , or UGT2B7 .
The effect of UGT induction ( e . g . , induction by rifampicin or any other UGT enzyme inducer ) on empagliflozin exposure has not been evaluated .
Empagliflozin is a substrate for P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , but it does not inhibit these efflux transporters at therapeutic doses .
Based on in vitro studies , empagliflozin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with drugs that are P - gp substrates .
Empagliflozin is a substrate of the human uptake transporters OAT3 , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 , but not OAT1 and OCT2 .
Empagliflozin does not inhibit any of these human uptake transporters at clinically relevant plasma concentrations and , therefore , no effect of empagliflozin is anticipated on concomitantly administered drugs that are substrates of these uptake transporters .
In vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions : Empagliflozin pharmacokinetics were similar with and without coadministration of metformin hydrochloride , glimepiride , pioglitazone , sitagliptin , linagliptin , warfarin , verapamil , ramipril , and simvastatin in healthy volunteers and with or without coadministration of hydrochlorothiazide and torsemide in patients with type 2 diabetes ( see Figure 1 ) .
In subjects with normal renal function , coadministration of empagliflozin with probenecid resulted in a 30 % decrease in the fraction of empagliflozin excreted in urine without any effect on 24 - hour urinary glucose excretion .
The relevance of this observation to patients with renal impairment is unknown .
Figure 1 Effect of Various Medications on the Pharmacokinetics of Empagliflozin as Displayed as 90 % Confidence Interval of Geometric Mean AUC and Cmax Ratios [ reference lines indicate 100 % ( 80 % - 125 % ) ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] aempagliflozin , 50 mg , once daily ; bempagliflozin , 25 mg , single dose ; cempagliflozin , 25 mg , once daily ; dempagliflozin , 10 mg , single dose Empagliflozin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin , glimepiride , pioglitazone , sitagliptin , linagliptin , warfarin , digoxin , ramipril , simvastatin , hydrochlorothiazide , torsemide , and oral contraceptives when coadministered with empagliflozin ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 Effect of Empagliflozin on the Pharmacokinetics of Various Medications as Displayed as 90 % Confidence Interval of Geometric Mean AUC andCmax Ratios [ reference lines indicate 100 % ( 80 % - 125 % ) ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] aempagliflozin , 50 mg , once daily ; bempagliflozin , 25 mg , once daily ; cempagliflozin , 25 mg , single dose ; dadministered as simvastatin ; eadministered as warfarin racemic mixture ; fadministered as Microgynon ® ; gadministered as ramipril [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride Table 5 Effect of Coadministered Drug on Plasma Metformin Systemic ExposureCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin hydrochloride * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses † AUC = AUC ( INF ) ≠ Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means ** At steady - state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours ; AUC = AUC ( 0 - 12 hours ) Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg ≠ metformin 0 . 98 ‡ 0 . 99 ‡ Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 09 ‡ 1 . 22 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg metformin 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 05 ‡ 1 . 07 ‡ Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion may reduce metformin elimination [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Topiramate ** 100 mg 500 mg metformin 1 . 25 1 . 17 Table 6 Effect of Metformin on Coadministered Drug Systemic Exposure Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin hydrochloride * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without metformin ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses † AUC = AUC ( INF ) unless otherwise noted § AUC ( 0 - 24 hours ) reported ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 ¶ Ratio of arithmetic means Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg § glyburide 0 . 78 ‡ 0 . 63 ‡ Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg furosemide 0 . 87 ‡ 0 . 69 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg nifedipine 1 . 10 § 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg propranolol 1 . 01 § 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg ibuprofen 0 . 97 ¶ 1 . 01 ¶ Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg cimetidine 0 . 95 § 1 . 01 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility SYNJARDY XR No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of empagliflozin and metformin HCl .
General toxicity studies in rats up to 13 weeks were performed with the combined components .
These studies indicated that no additive toxicity is caused by the combination of empagliflozin and metformin .
Empagliflozin Carcinogenesis was evaluated in 2 - year studies conducted in CD - 1 mice and Wistar rats .
Empagliflozin did not increase the incidence of tumors in female rats dosed at 100 , 300 , or 700 mg / kg / day ( up to 72 times the exposure from the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg ) .
In male rats , hemangiomas of the mesenteric lymph node were increased significantly at 700 mg / kg / day or approximately 42 times the exposure from a 25 mg clinical dose .
Empagliflozin did not increase the incidence of tumors in female mice dosed at 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day ( up to 62 times the exposure from a 25 mg clinical dose ) .
Renal tubule adenomas and carcinomas were observed in male mice at 1000 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 45 times the exposure of the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg .
These tumors may be associated with a metabolic pathway predominantly present in the male mouse kidney .
Empagliflozin was not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the in vitro Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , the in vitro L5178Y tk + / - mouse lymphoma cell assay , and an in vivo micronucleus assay in rats .
Empagliflozin had no effects on mating , fertility or early embryonic development in treated male or female rats up to the high dose of 700 mg / kg / day ( approximately 155 times the 25 mg clinical dose in males and females , respectively ) .
Metformin hydrochloride Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 150 , 300 , and 450 mg / kg / day in males and 150 , 450 , 900 , and 1200 mg / kg / day in females .
These doses are approximately 2 , 4 , and 8 times in males , and 3 , 7 , 12 , and 16 times in females of the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg / kg / day based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female rats .
A carcinogenicity study was also performed in Tg . AC transgenic mice at doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day applied dermally .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in male or female mice .
Genotoxicity assessments in the Ames test , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) and in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was not affected by metformin when administered at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES SYNJARDY XR Glycemic Control Studies In patients with type 2 diabetes , treatment with empagliflozin and metformin produced clinically and statistically significant improvements in HbA1c compared to placebo .
Reductions in HbA1c were observed across subgroups including age , gender , race , and baseline body mass index ( BMI ) .
Empagliflozin Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin A total of 637 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a double - blind , placebo - controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin in combination with metformin .
Patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on at least 1500 mg of metformin hydrochloride per day entered an open - label 2 - week placebo run - in .
At the end of the run - in period , patients who remained inadequately controlled and had an HbA1c between 7 % and 10 % were randomized to placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , or empagliflozin 25 mg .
At Week 24 , treatment with empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg daily provided statistically significant reductions in HbA1c ( p - value < 0 . 0001 ) , FPG , and body weight compared with placebo ( see Table 7 ) .
Table 7 Results at Week 24 From a Placebo - Controlled Study for Empagliflozin used in Combination with Metformin Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin N = 217 Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin N = 213 Placebo + Metformin N = 207 aModified intent - to - treat population .
Last observation on study ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data at Week 24 .
At Week 24 , 9 . 7 % , 14 . 1 % , and 24 . 6 % was imputed for patients randomized to empagliflozin 10 mg , empagliflozin 25 mg , and placebo , respectively .
bANCOVA p - value < 0 . 0001 ( HbA1c : ANCOVA model includes baseline HbA1c , treatment , renal function , and region .
Body weight and FPG : same model used as for HbA1c but additionally including baseline body weight / baseline FPG , respectively . )
cFPG ( mg / dL ) ; for empagliflozin 10 mg , n = 216 , for empagliflozin 25 mg , n = 213 , and for placebo , n = 207 HbA1c ( % ) a Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 9 7 . 9 7 . 9 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 7 - 0 . 8 - 0 . 1 Difference from placebo + metformin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 6 b ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 4 ) - 0 . 6 b ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 5 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving HbA1c < 7 % 75 ( 38 % ) 74 ( 39 % ) 23 ( 13 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) c Baseline ( mean ) 155 149 156 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 20 - 22 6 Difference from placebo + metformin ( adjusted mean ) - 26 - 29 -- Body Weight Baseline mean in kg 82 82 80 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 2 . 5 - 2 . 9 - 0 . 5 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 0 b ( - 2 . 6 , - 1 . 4 ) - 2 . 5 b ( - 3 . 1 , - 1 . 9 ) -- At Week 24 , the systolic blood pressure was statistically significantly reduced compared to placebo by - 4 . 1 mmHg ( placebo - corrected , p - value < 0 . 0001 ) for empagliflozin 10 mg and - 4 . 8 mmHg ( placebo - corrected , p - value < 0 . 0001 ) for empagliflozin 25 mg .
Empagliflozin Initial Combination Therapy with Metformin A total of 1364 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a double - blind , randomized , active - controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin in combination with metformin as initial therapy compared to the corresponding individual components .
Treatment - naïve patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes entered an open - label placebo run - in for 2 weeks .
At the end of the run - in period , patients who remained inadequately controlled and had an HbA1c between 7 % and 10 . 5 % were randomized to one of 8 active - treatment arms : empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg ; metformin hydrochloride 1000 mg , or 2000 mg ; empagliflozin 10 mg in combination with 1000 mg or 2000 mg metformin ; or empagliflozin 25 mg in combination with 1000 mg or 2000 mg metformin hydrochloride .
At Week 24 , initial therapy of empagliflozin in combination with metformin provided statistically significant reductions in HbA1c ( p - value < 0 . 01 ) compared to the individual components ( see Table 8 ) .
Table 8 Glycemic Parameters at 24 Weeks in a Study Comparing Empagliflozin and Metformin to the Individual Components as Initial Therapy Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin 1000 mga N = 161 Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin 2000 mga N = 167 Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin 1000 mga N = 165 Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin 2000 mga N = 169 Empagliflozin 10 mg N = 169 Empagliflozin 25 mg N = 163 Metformin 1000 mga N = 167 Metformin 2000 mga N = 162 aMetformin hydrochloride total daily dose , administered in two equally divided doses per day .
bp - value ≤ 0 . 0062 ( modified intent - to - treat population [ observed case ] MMRM model included treatment , renal function , region , visit , visit by treatment interaction , and baseline HbA1c ) .
cp - value ≤ 0 . 0056 ( modified intent - to - treat population [ observed case ] MMRM model included treatment , renal function , region , visit , visit by treatment interaction , and baseline HbA1c ) .
HbA1c ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 7 8 . 7 8 . 8 8 . 7 8 . 6 8 . 9 8 . 7 8 . 6 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 2 . 0 - 2 . 1 - 1 . 9 - 2 . 1 - 1 . 4 - 1 . 4 - 1 . 2 - 1 . 8 Comparison vs empagliflozin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 6 b ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 4 ) - 0 . 7 b ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 5 ) - 0 . 6 c ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 3 ) - 0 . 7 c ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 5 ) -- -- -- -- Comparison vs metformin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 8 b ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ) - 0 . 3 b ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 1 ) - 0 . 8 c ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 5 ) - 0 . 3 c ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 1 ) -- -- -- -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving HbA1c < 7 % 96 ( 63 % ) 112 ( 70 % ) 91 ( 57 % ) 111 ( 68 % ) 69 ( 43 % ) 51 ( 32 % ) 63 ( 38 % ) 92 ( 58 % ) Empagliflozin Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin and Sulfonylurea A total of 666 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a double - blind , placebo - controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin in combination with metformin plus a sulfonylurea .
Patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes on at least 1500 mg per day of metformin hydrochloride and on a sulfonylurea , entered a 2 - week open - label placebo run - in .
At the end of the run - in , patients who remained inadequately controlled and had an HbA1c between 7 % and 10 % were randomized to placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , or empagliflozin 25 mg .
Treatment with empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg daily provided statistically significant reductions in HbA1c ( p - value < 0 . 0001 ) , FPG , and body weight compared with placebo ( see Table 9 ) .
Table 9 Results at Week 24 from a Placebo - Controlled Study for Empagliflozin in Combination with Metformin and Sulfonylurea Empagliflozin 10 mg + Metformin + SU N = 225 Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin + SU N = 216 Placebo + Metformin + SU N = 225 aModified intent - to - treat population .
Last observation on study ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data at Week 24 .
At Week 24 , 17 . 8 % , 16 . 7 % , and 25 . 3 % was imputed for patients randomized to empagliflozin 10 mg , empagliflozin 25 mg , and placebo , respectively .
bANCOVA p - value < 0 . 0001 ( HbA1c : ANCOVA model includes baseline HbA1c , treatment , renal function , and region .
Body weight and FPG : same model used as for HbA1c but additionally including baseline body weight / baseline FPG , respectively . )
cFPG ( mg / dL ) ; for empagliflozin 10 mg , n = 225 , for empagliflozin 25 mg , n = 215 , for placebo , n = 224 HbA1c ( % ) a Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 1 8 . 1 8 . 2 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 8 - 0 . 8 - 0 . 2 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 6 b ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 5 ) - 0 . 6 b ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 4 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving HbA1c < 7 % 55 ( 26 % ) 65 ( 32 % ) 20 ( 9 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) c Baseline ( mean ) 151 156 152 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 23 - 23 6 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) - 29 - 29 -- Body Weight Baseline mean in kg 77 78 76 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 2 . 9 - 3 . 2 - 0 . 5 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 4 b ( - 3 . 0 , - 1 . 8 ) - 2 . 7 b ( - 3 . 3 , - 2 . 1 ) -- Active - Controlled Study vs Glimepiride in Combination with Metformin The efficacy of empagliflozin was evaluated in a double - blind , glimepiride - controlled , study in 1545 patients with type 2 diabetes with insufficient glycemic control despite metformin therapy .
Patients with inadequate glycemic control and an HbA1c between 7 % and 10 % after a 2 - week run - in period were randomized to glimepiride or empagliflozin 25 mg .
At Week 52 , empagliflozin 25 mg and glimepiride lowered HbA1c and FPG ( see Table 10 , Figure 3 ) .
The difference in observed effect size between empagliflozin 25 mg and glimepiride excluded the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 3 % .
The mean daily dose of glimepiride was 2 . 7 mg and the maximal approved dose in the United States is 8 mg per day .
Table 10 Results at Week 52 from an Active - Controlled Study Comparing Empagliflozin to Glimepiride as Add - On Therapy in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Empagliflozin 25 mg + Metformin N = 765 Glimepiride + Metformin N = 780 aModified intent - to - treat population .
Last observation on study ( LOCF ) was used to impute data missing at Week 52 .
At Week 52 , data was imputed for 15 . 3 % and 21 . 9 % of patients randomized to empagliflozin 25 mg and glimepiride , respectively .
bNon - inferior , ANCOVA model p - value < 0 . 0001 ( HbA1c : ANCOVA model includes baseline HbA1c , treatment , renal function , and region ) cANCOVA p - value < 0 . 0001 ( Body weight and FPG : same model used as for HbA1c but additionally including baseline body weight / baseline FPG , respectively . )
dFPG ( mg / dL ) ; for empagliflozin 25 mg , n = 764 , for glimepiride , n = 779 HbA1c ( % ) a Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 9 7 . 9 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 7 - 0 . 7 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 97 . 5 % CI ) - 0 . 07 b ( - 0 . 15 , 0 . 01 ) -- FPG ( mg / dL ) d Baseline ( mean ) 150 150 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 19 - 9 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) - 11 -- Body Weight Baseline mean in kg 82 . 5 83 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 3 . 9 2 . 0 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 5 . 9 c ( - 6 . 3 , - 5 . 5 ) -- Figure 3 Adjusted mean HbA1c Change at Each Time Point ( Completers ) and at Week 52 ( mITT Population ) - LOCF [ MULTIMEDIA ] At Week 52 , the adjusted mean change from baseline in systolic blood pressure was - 3 . 6 mmHg , compared to 2 . 2 mmHg for glimepiride .
The differences between treatment groups for systolic blood pressure was statistically significant ( p - value < 0 . 0001 ) .
At Week 104 , the adjusted mean change from baseline in HbA1c was - 0 . 75 % for empagliflozin 25 mg and - 0 . 66 % for glimepiride .
The adjusted mean treatment difference was - 0 . 09 % with a 97 . 5 % confidence interval of ( - 0 . 32 % , 0 . 15 % ) , excluding the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 3 % .
The mean daily dose of glimepiride was 2 . 7 mg and the maximal approved dose in the United States is 8 mg per day .
The Week 104 analysis included data with and without concomitant glycemic rescue medication , as well as off - treatment data .
Missing data for patients not providing any information at the visit were imputed based on the observed off - treatment data .
In this multiple imputation analysis , 13 . 9 % of the data were imputed for empagliflozin 25 mg and 12 . 9 % for glimepiride .
At Week 104 , empagliflozin 25 mg daily resulted in a statistically significant difference in change from baseline for body weight compared to glimepiride ( - 3 . 1 kg for empagliflozin 25 mg vs . + 1 . 3 kg for glimepiride ; ANCOVA - LOCF , p - value < 0 . 0001 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Empagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcome Study in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease .
The effect of empagliflozin on cardiovascular risk in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established , stable , atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is presented below .
The EMPA - REG OUTCOME study , a multicenter , multinational , randomized , double - blind parallel group trial compared the risk of experiencing a major adverse cardiovascular event ( MACE ) between empagliflozin and placebo when these were added to and used concomitantly with standard of care treatments for diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
Coadministered antidiabetic medications were to be kept stable for the first 12 weeks of the trial .
Thereafter , antidiabetic and atherosclerotic therapies could be adjusted , at the discretion of investigators , to ensure participants were treated according to the standard care for these diseases .
A total of 7020 patients were treated ( empagliflozin 10 mg = 2345 ; empagliflozin 25 mg = 2342 ; placebo = 2333 ) and followed for a median of 3 . 1 years .
Approximately 72 % of the study population was Caucasian , 22 % was Asian , and 5 % was Black .
The mean age was 63 years and approximately 72 % were male .
All patients in the study had inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus at baseline ( HbA1c greater than or equal to 7 % ) .
The mean HbA1c at baseline was 8 . 1 % and 57 % of participants had diabetes for more than 10 years .
Approximately 31 % , 22 % and 20 % reported a past history of neuropathy , retinopathy and nephropathy to investigators , respectively and the mean eGFR was 74 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
At baseline , patients were treated with one ( ~ 30 % ) or more ( ~ 70 % ) antidiabetic medications including metformin ( 74 % ) , insulin ( 48 % ) , and sulfonylurea ( 43 % ) .
All patients had established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease at baseline including one ( 82 % ) or more ( 18 % ) of the following : a documented history of coronary artery disease ( 76 % ) , stroke ( 23 % ) or peripheral artery disease ( 21 % ) .
At baseline , the mean systolic blood pressure was 136 mmHg , the mean diastolic blood pressure was 76 mmHg , the mean LDL was 86 mg / dL , the mean HDL was 44 mg / dL , and the mean urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ( UACR ) was 175 mg / g .
At baseline , approximately 81 % of patients were treated with renin angiotensin system inhibitors , 65 % with beta - blockers , 43 % with diuretics , 77 % with statins , and 86 % with antiplatelet agents ( mostly aspirin ) .
The primary endpoint in EMPA - REG OUTCOME was the time to first occurrence of a Major Adverse Cardiac Event ( MACE ) .
A major adverse cardiac event was defined as occurrence of either a cardiovascular death or a non - fatal myocardial infarction ( MI ) or a non - fatal stroke .
The statistical analysis plan had pre - specified that the 10 and 25 mg doses would be combined .
A Cox proportional hazards model was used to test for non - inferiority against the pre - specified risk margin of 1 . 3 for the hazard ratio of MACE and superiority on MACE if non - inferiority was demonstrated .
Type - 1 error was controlled across multiples tests using a hierarchical testing strategy .
Empagliflozin significantly reduced the risk of first occurrence of primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , or non - fatal stroke ( HR : 0 . 86 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 74 , 0 . 99 ) .
The treatment effect was due to a significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular death in subjects randomized to empagliflozin ( HR : 0 . 62 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 49 , 0 . 77 ) , with no change in the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction or non - fatal stroke ( see Table 11 and Figures 4 and 5 ) .
Results for the 10 mg and 25 mg empagliflozin doses were consistent with results for the combined dose groups .
Table 11 Treatment Effect for the Primary Composite Endpoint and its Componentsa Placebo N = 2333 Empagliflozin N = 4687 Hazard ratio vs placebo ( 95 % CI ) aTreated set ( patients who had received at least one dose of study drug ) bp - value for superiority ( 2 - sided ) 0 . 04 cTotal number of events Composite of cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , non - fatal stroke ( time to first occurrence ) b 282 ( 12 . 1 % ) 490 ( 10 . 5 % ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 74 , 0 . 99 ) Non - fatal myocardial infarctionc 121 ( 5 . 2 % ) 213 ( 4 . 5 % ) 0 . 87 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 09 ) Non - fatal strokec 60 ( 2 . 6 % ) 150 ( 3 . 2 % ) 1 . 24 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 67 ) Cardiovascular deathc 137 ( 5 . 9 % ) 172 ( 3 . 7 % ) 0 . 62 ( 0 . 49 , 0 . 77 ) Figure 4 Estimated Cumulative Incidence of First MACE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 Estimated Cumulative Incidence of Cardiovascular Death [ MULTIMEDIA ] The efficacy of empagliflozin on cardiovascular death was generally consistent across major demographic and disease subgroups .
Vital status was obtained for 99 . 2 % of subjects in the trial .
A total of 463 deaths were recorded during the EMPA - REG OUTCOME trial .
Most of these deaths were categorized as cardiovascular deaths .
The non - cardiovascular deaths were only a small proportion of deaths and were balanced between the treatment groups ( 2 . 1 % in patients treated with empagliflozin , and 2 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SYNJARDY XR tablets are available as follows : Tablet Strength Color / Shape Tablet Markings Package Size NDC Number 5 mg Empagliflozin 1000 mg Metformin HCl olive green , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S5 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
Bottles of 60 Bottles of 180 0597 - 0290 - 74 0597 - 0290 - 59 10 mg Empagliflozin 1000 mg Metformin HCl orange , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S10 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
Bottles of 30 Bottles of 90 0597 - 0280 - 73 0597 - 0280 - 90 12 . 5 mg Empagliflozin 1000 mg Metformin HCl blue , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S12 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
Bottles of 60 Bottles of 180 0597 - 0300 - 45 0597 - 0300 - 93 25 mg Empagliflozin 1000 mg Metformin HCl light green , oval , biconvex , film - coated tablet Printed on one side in black ink with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo and " S25 " on the top line and " 1000 M " on the bottom line .
Bottles of 30 Bottles of 90 0597 - 0295 - 88 0597 - 0295 - 78 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Lactic Acidosis Inform patients of the risks of lactic acidosis due to metformin , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development .
Advise patients to discontinue SYNJARDY XR immediately and to notify their healthcare provider promptly if unexplained hyperventilation , malaise , myalgia , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Counsel patients against excessive alcohol intake and inform patients about the importance of regular testing of renal function while receiving SYNJARDY XR .
Instruct patients to inform their healthcare provider that they are taking SYNJARDY XR prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ketoacidosis Inform patients that ketoacidosis is a serious life - threatening condition and that cases of ketoacidosis have been reported during use of empagliflozin , sometimes associated with illness or surgery among other risk factors .
Instruct patients to check ketones ( when possible ) if symptoms consistent with ketoacidosis occur even if blood glucose is not elevated .
If symptoms of ketoacidosis ( including nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , tiredness , and labored breathing ) occur , instruct patients to discontinue SYNJARDY XR and seek medical attention immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Volume Depletion Inform patients that symptomatic hypotension may occur with SYNJARDY XR and advise them to contact their healthcare provider if they experience such symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that dehydration may increase the risk for hypotension , and to maintain adequate fluid intake .
Serious Urinary Tract Infections Inform patients of the potential for urinary tract infections , which may be serious .
Provide them with information on the symptoms of urinary tract infections .
Advise them to seek medical advice if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Inform patients that the risk of hypoglycemia is increased when SYNJARDY XR is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin , and that a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Inform patients that necrotizing infections of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) have occurred with empagliflozin , a component of SYNJARDY XR .
Counsel patients to promptly seek medical attention if they develop pain or tenderness , redness , or swelling of the genitals or the area from the genitals back to the rectum , along with a fever above 100 . 4 ° F or malaise [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Females ( e . g . , Vulvovaginitis ) Inform female patients that vaginal yeast infections may occur and provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of vaginal yeast infections .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Males ( e . g . , Balanitis or Balanoposthitis ) Inform male patients that yeast infection of penis ( e . g . , balanitis or balanoposthitis ) may occur , especially in uncircumcised males and patients with chronic and recurrent infections .
Provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of balanitis and balanoposthitis ( rash or redness of the glans or foreskin of the penis ) .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that serious hypersensitivity reactions , such as urticaria and angioedema , have been reported with empagliflozin , a component of SYNJARDY XR .
Advise patients to report immediately any skin reaction or angioedema , and to discontinue the drug until they have consulted prescribing healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Vitamin B12 Deficiency Inform patients about importance of regular hematological parameters while receiving SYNJARDY XR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Laboratory Tests Inform patients that elevated glucose in urinalysis is expected when taking SYNJARDY XR .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant patients , and patients of reproductive potential , of the potential risk to a fetus with treatment with SYNJARDY XR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients to report pregnancies to their healthcare provider as soon as possible .
Lactation Advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with SYNJARDY XR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Patients of Reproductive Potential Inform patients that treatment with metformin may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory patients , which may lead to unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Inform patients that the tablets must be swallowed whole and never split , crushed , dissolved , or chewed and that incompletely dissolved SYNJARDY XR tablets may be eliminated in the feces .
Missed Dose Instruct patients to take SYNJARDY XR only as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers .
Advise patients not to double their next dose .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , Ingelheim , Germany SYNJARDY is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . either owns or uses the Jardiance ® and EMPA - REG OUTCOME ® trademarks under license .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED SPL8978F COL8977GJ072022 MEDICATION GUIDE SYNJARDY ® XR ( sin - JAR - dee XR ) ( empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) for oral use This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : October 2022 What is the most important information I should know about SYNJARDY XR ?
SYNJARDY XR can cause serious side effects , including : • Lactic Acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a build - up of lactic acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in a hospital .
Stop taking SYNJARDY XR and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room if you get any of the following symptoms of lactic acidosis : • feel very weak and tired • have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • have trouble breathing • have unexplained stomach or intestinal problems with nausea and vomiting , or diarrhea • have unusual sleepiness or sleep longer than usual • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • feel dizzy or lightheaded • have a slow or irregular heartbeat You have a higher chance of getting lactic acidosis with SYNJARDY XR if you : • have moderate to severe kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• drink a lot of alcohol ( very often or short - term " binge " drinking ) .
• get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have certain x - ray tests with injectable dyes or contrast agents .
• have surgery or other procedure for which you need to restrict the amount of food and liquid you eat and drink .
• have congestive heart failure .
• have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke .
• are 65 years of age or older .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Tell your healthcare provider that you are taking SYNJARDY XR before you have surgery or x - ray tests .
Your healthcare provider may need to stop your SYNJARDY XR for a while if you have surgery or certain x - ray tests .
SYNJARDY XR can have other serious side effects .
See " What are the possible side effects of SYNJARDY XR ? "
• Ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
Ketoacidosis has happened in people who have type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes , during treatment with empagliflozin , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR .
Ketoacidosis has also happened in people with diabetes who were sick or who had surgery during treatment with SYNJARDY XR .
Ketoacidosis is a serious condition , which needs to be treated in a hospital .
Ketoacidosis may lead to death .
Ketoacidosis can happen with SYNJARDY XR even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
Stop taking SYNJARDY XR and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room if you get any of the following symptoms : • nausea • vomiting • stomach - area ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • trouble breathing If you get any of these symptoms during treatment with SYNJARDY XR , if possible , check for ketones in your urine , even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
• Dehydration .
SYNJARDY XR can cause some people to become dehydrated ( the loss of body water and salt ) .
Dehydration may cause you to feel dizzy , faint , light - headed , or weak , especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) .
There have been reports of sudden worsening of kidney function in people who are taking SYNJARDY XR .
You may be at higher risk of dehydration if you : • have kidney problems • are 65 years of age or older • are on low sodium ( salt ) diet • take medicines to lower your blood pressure , including diuretics ( water pills ) Talk to your healthcare provider about what you can do to prevent dehydration including how much fluid you should drink on a daily basis .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you reduce the amount of food or liquid you drink , for example if you are sick or cannot eat or start to lose liquids from your body , for example from vomiting , diarrhea or being in the sun too long .
What is SYNJARDY XR ?
SYNJARDY XR is a prescription medicine that contains 2 diabetes medicines , empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) and metformin hydrochloride .
SYNJARDY XR can be used : • along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes , • in adults with type 2 diabetes who have known cardiovascular disease when empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR , is needed to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death .
• SYNJARDY XR is not for people with type 1 diabetes .
It may increase their risk of diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in blood or urine ) .
• It is not known if SYNJARDY XR is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take SYNJARDY XR ?
Do not take SYNJARDY XR if you : • have severe kidney problems , end stage renal disease or are on dialysis .
• have a condition called metabolic acidosis or diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in the blood or urine ) .
• are allergic to empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) , metformin , or any of the ingredients in SYNJARDY XR .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in SYNJARDY XR .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to SYNJARDY XR may include : • swelling of your face , lips , throat and other areas of your skin • difficulty with swallowing or breathing • raised , red areas on your skin ( hives ) If you have any of these symptoms , stop taking SYNJARDY XR and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking SYNJARDY XR ?
Before taking SYNJARDY XR , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have heart problems , including congestive heart failure .
• are 65 years of age or older .
• have a history of infection of the vagina or penis .
• have a history of urinary tract infection or problems with urination .
• are going to have surgery .
Your healthcare provider may stop your SYNJARDY XR before you have surgery .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are having surgery about when to stop taking SYNJARDY XR and when to start it again .
• are eating less , or there is a change in your diet .
• have or have had problems with your pancreas , including pancreatitis or surgery on your pancreas .
• drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in the short term ( " binge " drinking ) .
• are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure .
SYNJARDY XR may need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your healthcare provider about when you should stop SYNJARDY XR and when you should start SYNJARDY XR again .
See " What is the most important information I should know about SYNJARDY XR ? "
• have type 1 diabetes .
SYNJARDY XR should not be used to treat people with type 1 diabetes .
• have low levels of vitamin B12 in your blood .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
SYNJARDY XR may harm your unborn baby .
If you become pregnant while taking SYNJARDY XR , tell your healthcare provider as soon as possible .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
SYNJARDY XR may pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking SYNJARDY XR .
Do not breastfeed while taking SYNJARDY XR .
• are a person who has not gone through menopause ( premenopausal ) who does not have periods regularly or at all .
SYNJARDY XR can cause the release of an egg from an ovary in a person ( ovulation ) .
This can increase your chance of getting pregnant .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking SYNJARDY XR .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
SYNJARDY XR may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how SYNJARDY XR works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take SYNJARDY XR ?
• Take SYNJARDY XR exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take SYNJARDY XR by mouth 1 time each day with a meal in the morning .
Taking SYNJARDY XR with a meal may lower your chance of having an upset stomach .
• Swallow SYNJARDY XR tablets whole .
Do not break , cut , crush , dissolve , or chew SYNJARDY XR tablets .
If you cannot swallow SYNJARDY XR tablets whole , tell your healthcare provider .
• You may see something that looks like the SYNJARDY XR tablet in your stool ( bowel movement ) .
This is not harmful and should not affect the way SYNJARDY XR works to control your diabetes .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If you do not remember until it is time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule .
Do not take two doses of SYNJARDY XR at the same time .
Talk with your healthcare provider if you have questions about a missed dose .
• Your healthcare provider may tell you to take SYNJARDY XR along with other diabetes medicines .
Low blood sugar can happen more often when SYNJARDY XR is taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
See " What are the possible side effects of SYNJARDY XR ? "
• If you take too much SYNJARDY XR , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with SYNJARDY XR .
• When taking SYNJARDY XR , you may have sugar in your urine , which will show up on a urine test .
What should I avoid while taking SYNJARDY XR ?
Avoid drinking alcohol very often , or drinking a lot of alcohol in a short period of time ( " binge " drinking ) .
It can increase your chances of getting serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of SYNJARDY XR ?
SYNJARDY XR may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about SYNJARDY XR ? "
• Serious urinary tract infections .
Serious urinary tract infections that may lead to hospitalization have happened in people who are taking empagliflozin , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any signs or symptoms of a urinary tract infection such as a burning feeling when passing urine , a need to urinate often , the need to urinate right away , pain in the lower part of your stomach ( pelvis ) , or blood in the urine .
Sometimes people also may have a fever , back pain , nausea or vomiting .
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take SYNJARDY XR with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin , your risk of getting low blood sugar is higher .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you take SYNJARDY XR .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • drowsiness • weakness • irritability • hunger • fast heartbeat • confusion • shaking or feeling jittery • dizziness • sweating • A rare but serious bacterial infection that causes damage to the tissue under the skin ( necrotizing fasciitis ) in the area between and around the anus and genitals ( perineum ) .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum has happened in women and men who take empagliflozin , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum may lead to hospitalization , may require multiple surgeries , and may lead to death .
Seek medical attention immediately if you have a fever or you are feeling very weak , tired or uncomfortable ( malaise ) , and you develop any of the following symptoms in the area between and around your anus and genitals : • pain or tenderness • swelling • redness of skin ( erythema ) • Vaginal yeast infection .
Symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection include vaginal odor , white or yellowish vaginal discharge ( discharge may be lumpy or look like cottage cheese ) , or vaginal itching .
• Yeast infection of the penis ( balanitis or balanoposthitis ) .
Swelling of an uncircumcised penis may develop that makes it difficult to pull back the skin around the tip of the penis .
Other symptoms of yeast infection of the penis include redness , itching , or swelling of the penis , rash of the penis , foul smelling discharge from the penis , or pain in the skin around the penis .
Talk to your healthcare provider about what to do if you get symptoms of a yeast infection of the vagina or penis .
Your healthcare provider may suggest you use an over - the - counter antifungal medicine .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you use an over - the - counter antifungal medication and your symptoms do not go away .
• Allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions .
Serious allergic reactions have happened in people who are taking empagliflozin , one of the medicines in SYNJARDY XR .
Symptoms may include : • swelling of your face , lips , throat and other areas of your skin • difficulty with swallowing or breathing • raised , red areas on your skin ( hives ) If you have any of these symptoms , stop taking SYNJARDY XR and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• Low vitamin B12 ( vitamin B12 deficiency ) .
Using metformin for long periods of time may cause a decrease in the amount of vitamin B12 in your blood , especially if you have had low vitamin B12 blood levels before .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check your vitamin B12 levels .
The most common side effects of SYNJARDY XR include : • low blood sugar • urinary tract infection • stuffy or runny nose and sore throat • yeast infections in females • diarrhea • nausea or vomiting • gas • stomach discomfort • indigestion • weakness • headache These are not all the possible side effects of SYNJARDY XR .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store SYNJARDY XR ?
• Store SYNJARDY XR at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep SYNJARDY XR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of SYNJARDY XR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use SYNJARDY XR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SYNJARDY XR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about SYNJARDY XR that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in SYNJARDY XR ?
Active Ingredients : empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : Tablet core contains : polyethylene oxide , hypromellose , and magnesium stearate .
The Film Coatings and Printing Ink contain : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , talc , carnauba wax , purified water , ferrosoferric oxide , propylene glycol , isopropyl alcohol , ferric oxide yellow ( 5 mg / 1000 mg , 10 mg / 1000 mg , 25 mg / 1000 mg ) , ferric oxide red ( 10 mg / 1000 mg ) , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake ( 12 . 5 mg / 1000 mg , 25 mg / 1000 mg ) .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . ; Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . ; Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , Ingelheim , Germany SYNJARDY is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . either owns or uses the Jardiance ® and EMPA - REG OUTCOME ® trademarks under license .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL8977GJ072022 For more information about SYNJARDY XR including current prescribing information and Medication Guide , go to www . synjardyxr . com , or scan the code , or call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg / 1000 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0280 - 73 DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE Synjardy ® XR ( empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) 10 mg / 1000 mg Rx only 30 tablets Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg / 1000 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0290 - 74 DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE Synjardy ® XR ( empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) 5 mg / 1000 mg Rx only 60 tablets Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg / 1000 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0295 - 88 DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE Synjardy ® XR ( empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) 25 mg / 1000 mg Rx only 30 tablets Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 . 5 mg / 1000 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0300 - 45 DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE Synjardy ® XR ( empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) 12 . 5 mg / 1000 mg Rx only 60 tablets Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
