Active Ingredients : ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg .................. Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 187 mg ..............................................
Expectorant Purpose cough suppressant expectorant Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with cold helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive Warnings • Do not exceed recommended dosage .
• Do not use If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains an MAOI ; ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • Cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • Cough that lasts or is such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema , or where cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Do not take more than 8 teaspoonfuls in any 24 - hour period adults and children 12 years of age and over take 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours children 6 years to under 12 years of age take 1 teaspoonful every 4 hours children 2 years to under 6 years of age take 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 4 hours children under 2 years of age consult a doctor Other information store at room temperature 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) .
Tamper Evident Feature Do not use if seal under cap ( or cello - band over cap ) is torn , broken or missing .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , glycerin , methylparaben , natural and artificial flavors , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 305 - 403 - 3788 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
