RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions , Interference with Oxygen Saturation and Methemoglobin Measurements ( 5 . 3 ) .
10 / 2007 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lymphazurin ™ 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) upon subcutaneous administration , delineates the lymphatic vessels draining the region of injection .
It is an adjunct to lymphography in : primary and secondary lymphedema of the extremities ; chyluria , chylous ascites or chylothorax ; lymph node involvement by primary or secondary neoplasm ; lymph node response to therapeutic modalities ( 1 . 1 ) .
1 . 1 Lymphatic Vessel Delineation Lymphazuirn ™ 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) upon subcutaneous administration , delineates lymphatic vessels draining the region of injection .
It is an adjunct to lymphography in : primary and secondary lymphedema of the extremities ; chyluria , chylous ascites or chylothorax ; lymph node involvement by primary or secondary neoplasm ; and lymph node response to therapeutic modalities .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lymphazurin ™ 1 % is to be administered subcutaneously , one - half ( 1 / 2 ) ml into three ( 3 ) interdigital spaces of each extremity per study .
A maximum dose of 3 ml ( 30 mg ) isosulfan blue is , therefore , injected ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 Subcutaneous administration Lymphazurin ™ 1 % is to be administered subcutaneously , one - half ( 1 / 2 ) ml into three ( 3 ) interdigital spaces of each extremity per study .
A maximum dose of 3 ml ( 30 mg ) isosulfan blue is , therefore , injected .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1 % aqueous solution ( isosulfan blue ) 1 % aqueous solution ( isosulfan blue ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lymphazurin ™ 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) is contraindicated in those individuals with known hypersensitivity to triphenylmethane or related compounds .
Hypersensitivity to triphenylmethane or related compounds ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred after Lymphazurin 1 % administration .
Monitor patients closely for at least 60 minutes after administration of Lymphazurin 1 % ( 5 . 1 ) .
• The admixture of Lymphazurin 1 % with local anesthetics results in an immediate precipitation of 4 - 9 % drug complex .
Use a separate syringe for anesthetics ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Lymphazurin 1 % interferes with measurements in peripheral blood pulse oximetry .
Arterial blood gas analysis may be needed ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions ( respiratory distress , shock , angioedema ) have occurred after Lymphazurin 1 % administration .
Reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , allergies , drug reactions or previous reactions to triphenylmethane dyes .
Monitor patients closely for at least 60 minutes after administration of Lymphazurin 1 % .
Trained personnel should be available to administer emergency care including resuscitation .
5 . 2 Precipitation of Lymphazurin 1 % by Lidocaine The admixture of Lymphazurin 1 % ( with local anesthetics ( i . e . lidocaine ) ) in the same syringe results in an immediate precipitation of 4 – 9 % drug complex .
Use a separate syringe to administer a local anesthetic .
5 . 3 Interference with Oxygen Saturation and Methemoglobin Measurements Lymphazurin 1 % interferes with measurements of oxygen saturation in peripheral blood by pulse oximetry and can cause falsely low readings .
The interference effect is maximal at 30 minutes and minimal generally by four hours after administration .
Arterial blood gas analysis may be needed to verify decreased arterial partial pressure of oxygen .
Lymphazurin 1 % may also cause falsely elevated readings of methemoglobin by arterial blood gas analyzer .
Therefore , co - oximetry may be needed to verify methemoglobin level .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions occurring approximately 2 % of patients and include life - threatening anaphylactic reactions with respiratory distress , shock , angioedema , urticaria , pruritus .
A death has been reported following IV administration of a similar compound ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact U . S . Surgical at 1 - 800 - 522 - 0263 option 5 and website or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Postmarketing Experience Hypersensitivity Reactions : Case series report an overall incidence of hypersensitivity reactions in approximately 2 % of patients .
Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred .
Manifestations include respiratory distress , shock , angioedema , urticaria , pruritus .
A death has been reported following administration of a similar compound employed to estimate the depth of a severe burn .
Reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a personal or family history of bronchial asthma , significant allergies , drug reactions or previous reactions to triphenylmethane dyes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Laboratory tests : Lymphazurin 1 % interferes with measurements of oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry and of methemoglobin by gas analyzer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Skin : transient or long - term ( tattooing ) blue coloration .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No Drug Interactions have been identified with Lymphazurin 1 % .
No drug interactions have been identified for Lymphazurin 1 % ( 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Caution should be exercised when Lymphazurin 1 % is administered to nursing mothers ( 8 . 3 ) .
• Safety and effectiveness of Lymphazurin 1 % in children has not been established ( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lymphazurin ™ 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Lymphazurin ™ 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) in children have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE Do not exceed indicated recommended dosage as overdosage levels have not been identified for Lymphazurin 1 % .
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name of Lymphazurin 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) is N - [ 4 - [ [ 4 - ( diethylamino ) phenyl ] ( 2 , 5 - disulfophenyl ) methylene ] - 2 , 5 - cyclohexadien - 1 - ylidene ] - N - ethylehananamunium hydroxide , inner salt , sodium salt .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lymphazurin 1 % is a sterile aqueous solution for subcutaneous administration .
Phosphate buffer in sterile , pyrogen free water is added in sufficient quantity to yield a final pH of 6 . 8 - 7 . 4 .
Each ml of solution contains 10 mg Isosulfan blue , 6 . 6 mg sodium monohydrogen phosphate and 2 . 7 mg potassium dihydrogen phosphate .
The solution contains no preservative .
Lymphazurin 1 % is a contrast agent for the delineation of lymphatic vessels .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following subcutaneous administration , Lymphazurin 1 % binds to serum proteins and is picked up by the lymphatic vessels .
Thus , the lymphatic vessels are delineated by the blue dye .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Up to 10 % of the subcutaneously administered dose of Lymphazurin 1 % is excreted unchanged in the urine in 24 hours in human .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Lymphazurin 1 % .
Reproduction studies in animals have not been conducted and , therefore , it is unknown if a problem concerning mutagenesis or impairment of fertility in either males or females exists .
13 . 2 Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Lymphazurin 1 % .
It is not known whether Lymphazurin 1 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Lymphazurin 1 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Lymphazurin 1 % is supplied as a 5 ml single dose vial , 1 % aqueous solution in a phosphate buffer prepared by appropriate manufacturing to be sterile and pyrogen - free .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that urine color may be blue for 24 hours following administration of Lymphazurin 1 % .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL D . I . N . 00592358 NDC 63261 - 250 - 21 LYM - 100 LYMPHAZURIN * 1 % ( isosulfan blue ) Single Dose Vial 5 ml .
Mfd .
for United States Surgical , a division of Tyco Healthcare Group LP , Norwalk , CT 06856 USA .
by Ben Venue Labs , Inc . , Bedford , OH 44146 USA Distributed in Canada by : Tyco Healthcare Montreal , Quebec Canada , H9R 5H8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
