Active Ingredient Sulfur 3 % Purpose Acne Treatment Indications & Useage Deep cleansing antibacterial soap for management of acne , blackheads and comedones .
Warnings • For external use only • Avoid contact with eyes , was with water if exposed • Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of skin • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time • If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • If undue irritation persists consult a physician • Keep out of reach of children .
• if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Inactive Ingredient Sodium Tallowate , Sodium Cocoate / Sodium Palm Kernelate , Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Sodium Chloride , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Yellow 5 ( CI19140 ) , Titanium Dioxide ( CI77891 ) , Pentasodium Pentetate , Tetrasodium Etidonate , Iron Oxides ( CI77492 ) , Tocopheryl Acetate Dosage & Administration • Work into a lather and rinse with warm water • Use daily as skin cleanser or as directed by a physician .
Storage & Handling Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Sulfur 3 % … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … Acne Treatment Uses Deep cleansing antibacterial soap for management of acne , blackheads and comedones .
Warnings • § For external use only • Avoid contact with eyes , was with water if exposed • Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of skin • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time • If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • If undue irritation persists consult a physician • Keep out of reach of children .
• if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center .
Directions • § Work into a lather and rinse with warm water • Use daily as skin cleanser or as directed by a physician .
Other Information Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature Inactive Ingredients : Sodium Tallowate , Sodium Cocoate / Sodium Palm Kernelate , Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Sodium Chloride , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Yellow 5 ( CI19140 ) , Titanium Dioxide ( CI77891 ) , Pentasodium Pentetate , Tetrasodium Etidonate , Iron Oxides ( CI77492 ) , Tocopheryl Acetate Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc . , Johnson City , TN 37604 www . crownlaboratories . com | 800 . 334 . 4286 | Made in the USA P9100 . 06 sulfo lo ® Cleansing Bar Soap Helps Treat and Manage Acne , Blackheads and Comedones NDC 0316 - 0118 - 35 sulfo lo ® Cleansing Bar Soap Helps Treat and Manage Acne , Blackheads and Comedones DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED Net wt .
3 . 5 oz ( 99 grams ) NDC 0316 - 0118 - 35 sulfo lo ® Cleansing Bar Soap Net wt .
3 . 5 oz ( 99 grams ) sulfo lo ® Cleansing Bar Soap Helps Treat and Manage Acne , Blackheads and Comedones [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
