Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each patch ) Menthol 4 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• Children under 2 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients activated charcoal , disodium EDTA , ethanol , gelatin , glycerin , polysorbate 80 , polyvinyl alcohol , salt , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , water Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 254 - 5041 HYDROGEL PAIN RELIEF PATCH with MENTHOL • Soothing relief for painful joints and muscles • Lasts up to 8 hours • Just peel and stick • Contains activated charcoal for smoother skin !
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Care Instructions • The hydrogel must contact the skin for best results .
Clean the skin of oil , dirt , lotions , etc . and dry completely .
• It is sometimes helpful to use medical tape around the edges or a tension bandage to hold the patch securely in place .
• The Black Patch is designed to apply easily and remove residue - free .
However , due to heat , excessive moisture , or other factors , some hydrogel residue may transfer .
• If residue transfers onto the skin or clothing , simply wash off with warm water or in the laundry .
• The Black Patch is proudly made in America with natural , food grade ingredients .
However , it ' s not edible so keep it out of reach of small children .
Manufactured by Carbon Innovation 600 Business Park Dr Lincoln , CA 95648 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
