Drug facts per 2 " X 10 " strips Active ingredients : Menthol 10 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses : Temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • Achilles tendonitis • Muscle support • Back tension • Arthritis • Sprains • Muscles strain Warnings : For external use only When using this product : • Use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warning on this carton • Do not bandage tightly • Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Do not apply to wounds or sensitive skin • Do not remove when wet .
Allow to dry and slowly remove Stop use and ask doctor if : • Condition worsens or if symptoms persist more than 7 days • Discontinue use of this product and consult a physician if you have sensitive skin or cancer • Consult a health professional before use if pregnant or breast feeding • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact poison control right away Directions : • Adults and children over 12 years • Apply to the affected area not more than 2 to 3 times daily • Each application can be worn not more than 4 days • Store in a cool dry place and in a resalable container Inactive ingredients : Methacrylic acid , Ethylhexylacrylate , Bentonite , Sodium stearate , Polypropylene Glycol activated sports tape Activated Kinesiology Tape Provides all of the stretch , support , and benefits of traditional kinesiology tape , but with added pain relieving active ingredients .
The active ingredient , Menthol creates an intense heating and cooling sensation directly to the taped muscles and joints where and when you need it most .
Recommended for any active lifestyle .
External Support | Internal Repair 10 % Menthol for Cooling Pain Relief Distributed by Patch V3 Inc .
Suite 250 - 1621 Alton Parkway Irvine , CA , 92606 Questions / Comments ?
Call 1 - 833 - 728 - 2487 ( PATCHUP ) See www . patchv3 . com for detailed taping instructions MADE IN THE USA Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
