Drug Facts Active ingredients Clotrimazole , USP 1 % ) Purpose Antifungal Uses • treats most athlete ' s foot , jock itch , and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling , and discomfort Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age , unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product , avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foots and ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition lasts longer , contact a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) • before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , sorbitan monostearate Question or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Principal display panel COMPARE TO LOTRIMIN ® AF ATHLETE ' S FPPT CREAM ACTIVE INGREDIENT * Athlete ' s Foot Cream Cure Most Athlete ' s Foot RELIEVES : • Itching • Burning • Cracking • Scaling • Proven Clinically Effective in the Treatment of Most Athlete ' s Foot • Soothes Itching and Burning NET WT .
OZ ( g ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer HealthCare LLC . , distributor of Lotrimin ® AF Athlete ' s Foot Cream .
DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 www . topcarebrand . com Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
