Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment / First Aid Antiseptic Uses • For treatment of cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • Helps relieve the symptoms of itching , burning and pain associated with cold sores / fever blisters in just one day • Relieves dryness and softens cold sores and fever blisters • First aid to help protect against infection in minor cuts , scrapes , burns , and sores Warnings • For external use only : Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a physician .
• Allergy Alert : Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product .
• When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Use only as directed .
• Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse .
Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • Clean the affected area • Apply a small amount of this product to the affected area 1 to 3 times daily • Rub in gently • Wash hands before and after applying cream • Do not share this product with anyone • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information Store at room temperature Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Arginine , Butylparaben , Camphor , Cetearylisononanoate , Dipropylenglycole Dicaprylate - Dicaprate , Ethylparaben , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Hexyldecanole , Hexyl Decyl Laurate , Menthol , Methylparaben , Ozokerite , Phenoxyethanol , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Poloxamer 407 , Propylparaben , Tocopheryl Nicotinate ( Vitamin E ) , Thymol , Zinc Chloride Questions or Comments ?
Call us toll - free at 1 - 877 - 242 - 3234 Monday - Friday , 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . EST .
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
