1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMULIN R is indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
HUMULIN ® R is a short - acting human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 1 ) • Subcutaneous injection : inject subcutaneously 30 minutes before a meal into the thigh , upper arm , abdomen , or buttocks .
Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 2 ) • Intravenous infusion : administer intravenously ONLY under medical supervision at concentrations from 0 . 1 unit / mL to 1 unit / mL in infusion systems containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
( 2 . 2 ) • Individualize dose based on route of administration , metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) • HUMULIN R given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with an intermediate - or long - acting insulin .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do not mix with insulin preparations other than HUMULIN ® N . ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Always check the insulin label before administration to confirm the correct insulin product is being used [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Inspect HUMULIN R visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use HUMULIN R if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
2 . 2 Route of Administration Subcutaneous Injection • Inject HUMULIN R subcutaneously approximately 30 minutes before meals into the thigh , upper arm , abdomen , or buttocks .
• Rotate injection sites within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• HUMULIN R may be diluted with Sterile Diluent for HUMULIN R for subcutaneous injection ONLY under medical supervision .
• Dilute one part HUMULIN R to nine parts diluent to yield a concentration one - tenth that of HUMULIN R ( equivalent to U - 10 ) .
• Dilute one part HUMULIN R to one part diluent to yield a concentration one - half that of HUMULIN R ( equivalent to U - 50 ) .
• Diluted HUMULIN R may be used for 28 days when stored at 41 ° F ( 5 ° C ) or for 14 days when stored at 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Intravenous Administration • Administer HUMULIN R intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
• For intravenous use , HUMULIN R should be used at concentrations from 0 . 1 unit / mL to 1 unit / mL in infusion systems containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
• Intravenous infusion bags prepared with HUMULIN R are stable when stored in a refrigerator ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) for 48 hours and then may be used at room temperature for up to an additional 48 hours .
2 . 3 Dosing Instructions • Individualize and adjust the dosage of HUMULIN R based on the route of administration , the patient ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results , and glycemic control goal .
• HUMULIN R given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with an intermediate - or long - acting insulin .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function , or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• Dosage adjustment may be needed when changing from another insulin to HUMULIN R [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment due to Drug Interactions • Dosage adjustment may be needed when HUMULIN R is co - administered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 5 Instructions for Mixing with Other Insulins for Subcutaneous Injection • Do not mix HUMULIN R with insulin preparations other than HUMULIN N . • To mix HUMULIN R and HUMULIN N , draw HUMULIN R into the syringe first .
Inject immediately after mixing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) , clear and colorless solution available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL multiple - dose vial Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) • 3 mL multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMULIN R is contraindicated : • during episodes of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • in patients with hypersensitivity to HUMULIN R or any of its excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to HUMULIN R or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share needles or syringes with another person .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring with changes to : insulin dosage , co - administered glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment or with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
Discontinue HUMULIN R , monitor , and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Never Share Needles or Syringes between Patients Patients using HUMULIN R vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , adjustments in concomitant anti - diabetic medications may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of all insulins , including HUMULIN R . Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may lead to unconsciousness , may be life threatening or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place the patient and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each patient and change over time in the same patient .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic neuropathy , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulins , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMULIN R may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between insulin products have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between HUMULIN R and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with HUMULIN R [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMULIN R ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve .
HUMULIN R is contraindicated in patients who have had a hypersensitivity reaction to HUMULIN R or its excipients .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulins , including HUMULIN R , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMULIN R , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Adverse reactions observed with HUMULIN R include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , weight gain , edema , pruritus , and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies or Postmarketing Reports The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during clinical studies or from postmarketing reports with use of HUMULIN R . Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with insulin initiation and glucose control intensification Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
Over the long - term , improved glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe allergic reactions may include anaphylaxis , generalized skin reactions , rash , angioedema , bronchospasm , hypotension , and shock .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in HUMULIN R . Hypokalemia HUMULIN R can cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Injection Site Reactions Injection site reactions may include injection site hematoma , pain , hemorrhage , erythema , nodules , swelling , discoloration , pruritus , warmth , and injection site mass .
Lipodystrophy Administration of insulin subcutaneously , including HUMULIN R , has resulted in lipoatrophy ( depression in the skin ) or lipohypertrophy ( enlargement or thickening of tissue ) in some patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Localized Cutaneous Amyloidosis Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
Medication Errors Medication errors in which other insulins have been accidentally substituted for HUMULIN R have been identified during postapproval use .
Peripheral Edema Insulins , including HUMULIN R , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Weight Gain Weight gain can occur with insulins , including HUMULIN R , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin .
Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , insulin administration may cause anti - insulin antibodies to form .
The incidence of antibody formation with HUMULIN R is unknown .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with HUMULIN R Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN R Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN R Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
• Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 ) • Antiadrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not performed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 % .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from retrospective studies , open - label , randomized , parallel studies and meta - analyses over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
All available studies have methodological limitations , including lack of blinding , unclear methods or randomization , and small sample size .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available data from published literature suggests that exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN R , are transferred into human milk .
There are no adverse reactions reported in breastfed infants in the literature .
There are no data on the effects of exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN R on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for HUMULIN R and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMULIN R or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use HUMULIN R is indicated to improve glycemic control in pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
The dosage of HUMULIN R must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and frequent monitoring of blood glucose to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN R has not been studied .
Elderly patients using HUMULIN R may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia due to co - morbid disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN R has not been studied .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN R dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN R has not been studied .
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN R dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with a glucagon product for emergency use or intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Insulin human is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 with a molecular weight of 5 . 808 kDa .
HUMULIN R ( insulin human ) injection is a short - acting human insulin for subcutaneous or intravenous use .
HUMULIN R is a sterile , aqueous , clear , and colorless solution .
HUMULIN R contains 100 units of insulin human in each milliliter .
Each milliliter of HUMULIN R also contains glycerin ( 16 mg ) , metacresol ( 2 . 5 mg ) , endogenous zinc ( approximately 0 . 015 mg / 100 units , ) and Water for Injection .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin , including HUMULIN R , is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulin lowers blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake , especially by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The time course of insulin action ( i . e . , glucose lowering ) may vary considerably in different individuals or within the same individual .
With subcutaneous use , the pharmacologic effect of HUMULIN R begins approximately 30 minutes ( range : 10 to 75 minutes ) after administration of doses in the 0 . 05 to 0 . 4 units / kg range ( Figure 1 ) .
The effect is maximal at approximately 3 hours ( range : 20 minutes to 7 hours ) and terminates after approximately 8 hours ( range : 3 to 14 hours ) .
In a study that administered 50 and 100 units doses subcutaneously to obese subjects , mean time of termination of effect was prolonged to approximately 18 hours ( range approximately 12 - 24 hours ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] With intravenous use , the pharmacologic effect of HUMULIN R begins at approximately 10 to 15 minutes and terminates at a median time of approximately 4 hours ( range : 2 to 6 hours ) after administration of doses in the range of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 units / kg .
The intravenous administration of HUMULIN R was tested in 21 people with type 1 diabetes .
During the 6 - hour assessment phase patients received intravenous HUMULIN R at an initial dose of 0 . 5 units / hour , adjusted to maintain blood glucose concentrations near normoglycemia ( 100 to 160 mg / dL ) .
The mean blood glucose levels during the assessment phase for patients on HUMULIN R therapy are summarized below in Table 2 .
All patients achieved near normoglycemia during the 6 - hour assessment phase .
The average time ( ± SE ) required to attain near normoglycemia was 161 ± 14 minutes for HUMULIN R . Table 2 : Mean Blood Glucose Concentrations ( mg / dL ) during Intravenous Infusions of HUMULIN R a Results shown as mean ± Standard Deviation .
Time from Start of Infusion ( minutes ) Mean Blood Glucose ( mg / dL ) Intravenousa 0 220 ± 11 30 204 ± 17 60 193 ± 18 120 172 ± 28 180 153 ± 30 240 139 ± 24 300 131 ± 22 360 128 ± 18 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption — In healthy subjects given subcutaneous doses of HUMULIN R ranging from 0 . 05 to 0 . 4 unit / kg , mean peak serum levels occurred between 36 to 150 minutes after dosing .
After subcutaneous administration of a single 12 unit dose ( approximately 0 . 15 units / kg ) to patients with type 1 diabetes , the median peak serum level occurred at approximately 2 hours ( range : 20 minutes - 6 hours ) .
In a study that administered 50 units ( 0 . 4 - 0 . 6 unit / kg ) and 100 units ( 0 . 8 - 1 . 3 unit / kg ) doses subcutaneously to healthy obese subjects , median peak serum levels were prolonged to approximately 3 hours ( range 1 to 8 hours ) .
The absolute bioavailability after a single subcutaneous injection of HUMULIN R ranges from 48 % to 89 % in the 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 unit / kg dose range .
Distribution — When HUMULIN R is administered intravenously at doses of 0 . 1 or 0 . 2 unit / kg , the mean volume of distribution ranges between 0 . 32 to 0 . 67 L / kg .
Metabolism — The uptake and degradation of insulin occurs predominantly in liver , kidney , muscle , and adipocytes , with the liver being the major organ involved in the clearance of insulin .
Excretion — After subcutaneous administration of HUMULIN R doses in the 0 . 05 - 0 . 4 unit / kg dose range , the median apparent half - life is approximately 1 . 5 hours ( range : 40 minutes - 7 hours ) .
Mean apparent half - life of HUMULIN R after subcutaneous administration of higher doses ( 50 and 100 units ) to healthy obese subjects was approximately 3 . 6 hours ( range = 1 . 6 - 8 . 6 hours ) .
When administered intravenously , HUMULIN R had a mean half - life of approximately 20 minutes at a 0 . 1 unit / kg dose and 1 hour at a 0 . 2 unit / kg dose .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and fertility studies were not performed in animals .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied HUMULIN R injection is 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) , a clear and colorless solution available as : 10 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 8215 - 01 3 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 8215 - 17 Patients using HUMULIN R vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Protect from heat and light .
Do not freeze .
Do not use HUMULIN R after the expiration date printed on the label or if it has been frozen .
See Table 3 below for storage conditions .
Table 3 : Storage Conditions HUMULIN R Vialsaa When stored at room temperature , HUMULIN R can only be used for a total of 31 days including both not in - use ( unopened ) and in - use ( opened ) storage time .
Not In - use ( Unopened ) In - use ( Opened ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) 10 mL multiple - dose vial 3 mL multiple - dose vial 31 days Until expiration date 31 days 31 days Storage of Diluted HUMULIN R and Intravenous Infusion Preparations with HUMULIN R Diluted HUMULIN R for subcutaneous injection may be stored for 28 days when refrigerated at 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] or for 14 days at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Intravenous infusion bags prepared with HUMULIN R may be stored for 48 hours when refrigerated at 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] .
The prepared intravenous infusion bags may then be stored at room temperature for up to an additional 48 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share Needles or Syringes between Patients Advise patients using HUMULIN R vials not to share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction with insulin .
Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of HUMULIN R therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Medication Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection to avoid mix - ups between insulin products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with HUMULIN R . Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and to seek medical attention if they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Literature Revised : June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1997 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINR100 - 0004 - USPI - 20220627 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2022 Patient Information Humulin ® ( HU - mu - lin ) R ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous or intravenous use U - 100 ( 100 units / mL ) Do not share your syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is Humulin R ?
• Humulin R is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use Humulin R ?
Do not use Humulin R if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to human insulin or any of the ingredients in Humulin R . See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Humulin R .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using Humulin R ?
Before using Humulin R , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including , if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Humulin R . • are pregnant , planning to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breastfeed .
HUMULIN R may pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using HUMULIN R . Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Before you start using Humulin R , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use Humulin R ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your Humulin R . • Use Humulin R exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much Humulin R to use and when to use it .
• Use Humulin R 30 minutes before eating a meal .
• Know the type , strength , and amount of insulin you use .
Do not change the type , or amount of insulin you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you use different types of insulin .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are using the correct insulin .
• Inject Humulin R under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your upper legs ( thighs ) , upper arms , buttocks or stomach area ( abdomen ) .
Do not inject Humulin R into your vein ( intravenously ) .
• - Do not mix Humulin R with any other insulin except Humulin ® N .
If Humulin R is mixed with Humulin N , Humulin R should be drawn into the syringe first .
Inject immediately after mixing .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• - Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• - Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• - Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep Humulin R and all medicines out of reach of children .
Your dose of Humulin R may need to change because of : • change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take What should I avoid while using Humulin R ?
While using Humulin R do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how Humulin R affects you .
• drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of Humulin R ?
Humulin R may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • - dizziness or lightheadedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability or mood changes , hunger .
• - Your healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon product for emergency use so that others can give you an injection if your blood sugar becomes too low ( hypoglycemic ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • - a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Humulin R may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Humulin R . Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Humulin R . Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • - shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and Humulin R may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • severe hypoglycemia needing hospitalization or emergency room care , and be sure to tell the hospital staff the units of Humulin R that your healthcare provider has prescribed for you .
• trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of Humulin R include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions including reactions at your injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , weight gain , swelling ( edema ) in hands or feet , itching and rash .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Humulin R . Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General Information about the safe and effective use of Humulin R Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Humulin R for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Humulin R to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Humulin R .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Humulin R that is written for healthcare providers .
For more information go to www . humulin . com or call 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
What are the ingredients in Humulin R ?
Active Ingredient : insulin human Inactive ingredients : glycerin , metacresol , and Water for Injection as inactive ingredients .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust the pH . Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 For more information about Humulin R go to www . humulin . com .
Copyright © 2007 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINR100 - 0004 - PPI - 20220627 Instructions for Use Humulin ® ( HU - mu - lin ) R ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous or intravenous use 3 mL or 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 100 units / mL ) Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN R and each time you get a new vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection • a 3 mL or 10 mL multiple - dose HUMULIN ® R vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ Disposing of used needles and syringes ” at the end of these instructions .
Vial Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing the Dose • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the HUMULIN R label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use HUMULIN R past the expiration date printed on the label or 31 days after you first use it .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection to help make sure the syringe needle is sterile and to prevent blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : Check the insulin .
HUMULIN R solution should look clear and colorless .
Do not use HUMULIN R if it looks cloudy , thick , slightly colored , or if you see particles in the solution .
Step 2 : If you are using a new HUMULIN R vial , flip off the plastic protective Cap , but do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger until the tip of the Plunger reaches the line for the number of units for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 5 : Push the needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Push the Plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger down until the tip is a few units past the line for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units Plunger is shown at 24 units ) If there are air bubbles in the syringe , tap the syringe gently a few times to let any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the tip reaches the line for your prescribed dose .
Check to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 9 : Pull the syringe out of the vial ' s Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you use HUMULIN R with HUMULIN N : • HUMULIN N is the only type of insulin that can be mixed with HUMULIN R . Do not mix HUMULIN R with any other type of insulin .
• HUMULIN R should be drawn up into the syringe first , before you draw up Humulin N . Talk to your healthcare provider if you are not sure about the right way to mix HUMULIN R and HUMULIN N . • Give your injection right away .
Giving your Injection • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Step 10 : Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN R is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
The needle should stay in your skin for at least 5 seconds to make sure you have injected all of your insulin dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Pull the needle out of your skin .
• You may see a drop of insulin at the needle tip .
This is normal and does not affect the dose you received .
• If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of used needles and syringes : • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store HUMULIN R ?
All unopened vials : • Store all unopened vials in the refrigerator at 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 31 days if they are stored at room temperature After vials have been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 31 days .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Throw away all opened vials after 31 days , even if there is still insulin left in the vial .
General information about the safe and effective use • Keep HUMULIN R vials , syringes , needles , and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection .
• Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN and insulin , go to www . humulin . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch the humulin . com website This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humulin ® is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Instructions for Use revised : June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1997 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINR100VL - 0004 - IFU - 20220627 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON – HUMULIN R U - 100 Vial 10 mL 1 ct NDC 0002 - 8215 - 01 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) Humulin ® R REGULAR ( insulin human ) injection 10 mL multiple - dose vial Use only with a U - 100 syringe For subcutaneous or intravenous use .
U - 100 www . lilly . com Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
