Active Ingredient ..................................................................... Purpose Magnesium Sulfate USP ( Epsom Salt ) Internal Use .......................................................................
Saline Laxative External Use .................................................................... Soaking Solution Uses ( Internal ) • Relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • Generally produces bowel movements in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Uses ( External ) • Relieves pain from minor sprains and bruises Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions - For Internal Use as a Laxative • do not exceed more than 2 doses per day • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve each dose in a full ( 8 ounces ) of liquid Age Dose adults and children 12 years and older 2 to 4 level teaspoons ( 10 to 20 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily Not recommended for children under 6 years of age .
Natural Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . Soaking Solution Saline Laxative Soothes Minor Aches , Sprains & Sore Muscles Calming & Rejuvenating SORE FEET RELIEF : Add one cup of Amoray Care ® Epsom Salt to one gallon of warm water and soak for at least 5 minutes at a time .
BATH SOAK : Add two cups of Amoray Care ® Epsom Salt under warm running bath water to release its gentle aroma .
Amoray Care ® Epsom Salt helps relieve tension and provides a soothing , relaxing experience .
Soak for at least 20 minutes .
First Aid Compress : Dissolve 2 cups of Amoray Care ® Epsom Salt into two cups of hot water to make a compress , apply as a wet dressing with a towel to : soothe bruises & sprains , take the sting out of insect bites , draw out splinters , alleviate pain from sports and overexertion .
Kkeep out of reach of children .
Where prompt relief is not obtained or where there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on advice of a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes .
EPSOM SALT WITHOUT SCENT CAN BE APPLIED FOR BOTH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL USE , SCENTED EPSOM SALTS CAN BE APPLIED FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Store in a cool , dry place out of direct sunlight .
Package sold by weight not volume , some settling may occur during shipment .
If caking occurs , tap pouch gently to free granules .
Warnings • Ask a doctor before use if you have : Kidney disease a magnesium restricted diet abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop and consult a doctor if : As laxative : • you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use .
This may indicate a serious condition .
• You need to use a laxative for more than 1 week As soaking solution : • you have redness , irritation , swelling , or infection occurs • hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except with the advice of a physician If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
EPSOM SALT WITHOUT SCENT CAN BE APPLIED FOR BOTH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL USE , SCENTED EPSOM SALTS CAN BE APPLIED FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Ingredients : Natural Magnesium Sulfate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
