RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 12 / 2019 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 12 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZILRETTA ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) is indicated as an intra - articular injection for the management of osteoarthritis pain of the knee .
ZILRETTA is an extended - release synthetic corticosteroid indicated as an intra - articular injection for the management of osteoarthritis pain of the knee .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use The efficacy and safety of repeat administration of ZILRETTA have not been demonstrated .
( 2 . 1 ) Limitation of Use The efficacy and safety of repeat administration of ZILRETTA have not been demonstrated .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 32 mg administered as a single intra - articular injection in the knee .
( 2 . 1 ) • See Instructions for Use ( IFU ) for instructions on reconstitution of ZILRETTA with the supplied diluent .
( 2 . 2 ) • It is normal for some residue to be left behind on the vial walls after withdrawing the suspension .
( 2 . 2 ) • Not interchangeable with other formulations of injectable triamcinolone acetonide .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • ZILRETTA is administered as a single intra - articular extended - release injection of triamcinolone acetonide , to deliver 32 mg ( 5 mL ) .
• ZILRETTA is for intra - articular use only and should not be administered by the following routes : epidural , intrathecal , intravenous , intraocular , intramuscular , intradermal , subcutaneous .
• ZILRETTA is not suitable for use in small joints , such as the hand .
• The efficacy and safety of repeat administration of ZILRETTA have not been demonstrated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
• The efficacy and safety of ZILRETTA for management of osteoarthritis pain of shoulder and hip have not been evaluated .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration of Intra - Articular Suspension Refer to the Instructions for Use for directions on the preparation and administration of ZILRETTA .
ZILRETTA is supplied as a single - dose kit containing a vial of ZILRETTA microsphere powder , a vial of sterile diluent , and a sterile vial adapter .
ZILRETTA must be prepared using the diluent supplied in the kit .
Preparation of ZILRETTA requires close attention to the Instructions for Use to ensure successful administration .
Use proper aseptic technique throughout the dose preparation and administration procedure .
ZILRETTA is a suspension product and it is normal for some residue to be left behind on the vial walls after withdrawing the contents .
Promptly inject ZILRETTA after preparation to avoid settling of the suspension .
If needed , the ZILRETTA suspension can be stored in the vial for up to 4 hours at ambient conditions .
Gently swirl the vial to resuspend any of the settled microspheres prior to preparing the syringe for injection .
The usual technique for intra - articular injection should be followed .
Aspiration of synovial fluid may be performed based on clinical judgment prior to administration of ZILRETTA .
2 . 3 Non - Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Triamcinolone Acetonide for Intra - articular Use ZILRETTA is not interchangeable with other formulations of injectable triamcinolone acetonide .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ZILRETTA is an injectable suspension that delivers 32 mg of triamcinolone acetonide .
ZILRETTA is supplied as a single - dose kit , containing : • One vial of ZILRETTA white to off - white microsphere powder • One vial of 5 mL sterile , clear diluent • One sterile vial adapter ZILRETTA is an injectable suspension that delivers 32 mg of triamcinolone acetonide .
It is supplied as a single - dose kit containing one vial of ZILRETTA microsphere powder , one vial of 5 mL diluent , and one sterile vial adapter .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ZILRETTA is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to triamcinolone acetonide , corticosteroids or any components of the product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Patients with hypersensitivity to triamcinolone acetonide or any component of the product .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Intra - articular Use Only : Do not administer ZILRETTA by epidural , intrathecal , intravenous , intraocular , intramuscular , intradermal , or subcutaneous routes .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural and Intrathecal Administration : Serious neurologic events have been reported following epidural or intrathecal corticosteroid administration .
Corticosteroids are not approved for this use .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious reactions have been reported with triamcinolone acetonide injection .
Institute appropriate care upon occurrence of an anaphylactic reaction .
( 5 . 3 ) • Joint Infection and Damage : May cause joint pain accompanied by joint swelling .
If this occurs , conduct appropriate evaluation to exclude septic arthritis and institute appropriate antimicrobial therapy if septic arthritis is confirmed .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Warnings and Precautions Specific for ZILRETTA ZILRETTA has not been evaluated and should not be administered by the following routes : • Epidural • Intrathecal • Intravenous • Intraocular • Intramuscular • Intradermal • Subcutaneous [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural and Intrathecal Administration Serious neurologic events , some resulting in death , have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids .
Specific events reported include , but are not limited to , spinal cord infarction , paraplegia , quadriplegia , cortical blindness , and stroke [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy .
Reports of serious medical events have been associated with the intrathecal route of corticosteroid administration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of epidural and intrathecal administration of corticosteroids have not been established , and corticosteroids are not approved for this use .
In particular , the formulation of ZILRETTA should not be considered safe to use for epidural or intrathecal administration .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Rare instances of anaphylaxis have occurred in patients with hypersensitivity to corticosteroids .
Cases of serious anaphylaxis , including death , have been reported in individuals receiving triamcinolone acetonide injection , regardless of the route of administration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Institute appropriate care upon occurrence of an anaphylactic reaction .
5 . 4 Joint Infection and Damage Intra - articular injection of corticosteroid may be complicated by joint infection .
A marked increase in pain accompanied by local swelling , further restriction of joint motion , fever , and malaise are suggestive of septic arthritis .
If this complication occurs and a diagnosis of septic arthritis is confirmed , institute appropriate antimicrobial therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Avoid injection of a corticosteroid into an infected site .
Local injection of a corticosteroid into a previously infected joint is not usually recommended .
Examine any joint fluid present to exclude a septic process .
Corticosteroid injection into unstable joints is generally not recommended .
Intra - articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues .
5 . 5 Increased Risk of Infections Intra - articularly injected corticosteroids are systemically absorbed .
Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals .
There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used .
Infection with any pathogen ( viral , bacterial , fungal , protozoan , or helminthic ) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents .
These infections may be mild to severe .
With increasing doses of corticosteroids , the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases .
Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection .
Advise patients to inform their health care provider if they develop fever or other signs or symptoms of infection .
Advise patients who have not been vaccinated to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles .
Instruct patients to contact their health care provider immediately if they are exposed [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 6 Alterations in Endocrine Function Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal axis suppression , with the potential for adrenal insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment , which may persist for months .
In situations of stress during that period ( as in trauma , surgery , or illness ) , institute corticosteroid replacement therapy .
Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients .
5 . 7 Cardiovascular Effects Corticosteroids can cause elevations of blood pressure , salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives .
Monitor patients with congestive heart failure or hypertension for signs of edema , weight gain , and imbalance in serum electrolytes .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary .
5 . 8 Renal Effects Corticosteroids can cause salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives .
All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion .
Monitor patients with renal insufficiency for signs of edema , weight gain , and imbalance in serum electrolytes .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary .
5 . 9 Increased Intraocular Pressure Corticosteroid use may be associated with development or exacerbation of increased intraocular pressure .
Monitor patients with elevated intraocular pressure for potential treatment adjustment .
5 . 10 Gastrointestinal Perforation Corticosteroid administration is associated with increased risk of gastrointestinal perforation in patients with certain GI disorders such as active or latent peptic ulcers , diverticulosis , diverticulitis , ulcerative colitis and in patients with fresh intestinal anastomoses .
Avoid corticosteroids in these patients because signs of peritoneal irritation following gastrointestinal perforation may be minimal or absent .
5 . 11 Alterations in Bone Density Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption through their effect on calcium regulation and inhibition of osteoblast function .
Special consideration should be given to patients with or at increased risk of osteoporosis ( e . g . , postmenopausal women ) before initiating corticosteroid therapy .
5 . 12 Behavioral and Mood Disturbances Corticosteroid use may be associated with new or aggravated adverse psychiatric reactions ranging from euphoria , insomnia , mood swings , and personality changes to severe depression and frank psychotic manifestations .
Special consideration should be given to patients with previous or current emotional instability or psychiatric illness before initiating corticosteroid therapy .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to immediately report any new or worsening behavior or mood disturbances to their health care provider .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling .
• Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural and Intrathecal Administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Joint Infection and Damage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Increased Risk of Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Alterations in Endocrine Function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Cardiovascular Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Renal Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Increased Intraocular Pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Alternations in Bone Density [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Behavioral and Mood Disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] Most commonly reported adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) in clinical studies include sinusitis , cough , and contusions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Flexion Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 844 - FLEXION ( 353 - 9466 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data below reflect exposure to a single 32 mg intra - articular injection of ZILRETTA in clinical studies in patients with moderate to severe pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee .
Clinical studies included randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , placebo and / or active - controlled , and pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic studies with follow - up ranging from 6 - 24 weeks .
A total of 424 patients received ZILRETTA and 262 received placebo .
Treatment emergent adverse reactions reported by greater than or equal to 1 % of patients in the ZILRETTA arms are summarized below ( Table 1 and 2 ) .
Overall , the incidence and nature of adverse reactions was similar to that observed with placebo .
Table 1 : Most Commonly Reported Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions with ZILRETTA ( Incidence ≥ 1 % ) in Patients with Osteoarthritis of the KneePreferred Term ( MedDRA ) ZILRETTA ( N = 424 ) Placebo ( N = 262 ) Sinusitis 2 % 1 % Cough 2 % 1 % Contusions 2 % 1 % Table 2 : Most Commonly Reported Treatment - Emergent Injected Knee Adverse Reactions with ZILRETTA ( Incidence ≥ 1 % ) in Patients with Osteoarthritis of the KneePreferred Term ( MedDRA ) ZILRETTA ( N = 424 ) Placebo ( N = 262 ) Joint Swelling 3 % 2 % Contusions 2 % 1 % The safety of repeat administration of ZILRETTA was evaluated in a multicenter , open - label , single - arm study in patients with osteoarthritis pain of the knee .
A total of 179 patients received a repeat injection on or after Week 12 ( median 16 . 6 weeks ) and were followed for 52 weeks from the initial injection .
As assessed by adverse event rates for the periods of baseline to second dose and second dose to the comparable period after the second dose , there were higher rates of reported mild to moderate arthralgia after the second dose ( 16 % ) than after the first dose ( 6 % ) .
The data from this study are insufficient to fully characterize the safety of repeat administration of ZILRETTA .
[ See also Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions , presented alphabetically by body system , have been identified during post - approval use of ZILRETTA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Endocrine : Increased blood glucose ( in diabetic patients ) .
General and administration site conditions : Pain including injection site pain or discomfort and leg pain .
Immune system : Hypersensitivity reactions including pruritis , rash , angioedema , and anaphylaxis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Infections and Infestations : Septic arthritis [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , joint swelling or effusion , muscle spasms .
Nervous system : Headache .
Reproductive system : Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding ( similar to a menstrual period ) .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue : Pruritis .
6 . 3 Corticosteroid Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions , presented alphabetically by body system , are from voluntary reports or clinical studies of corticosteroids .
Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Anaphylactic reactions : Anaphylaxis including death , angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , cardiac arrest , cardiac arrhythmias , cardiac enlargement , circulatory collapse , congestive heart failure , hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] , fat embolism , hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants , myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction , pulmonary edema , syncope , tachycardia , thromboembolism , thrombophlebitis , vasculitis .
Dermatologic : Acne , allergic dermatitis , cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy , dry scaly skin , ecchymoses and petechiae , edema , erythema , hyperpigmentation , hypopigmentation , impaired wound healing , increased sweating , lupus erythematosus - like lesions , purpura , rash , sterile abscess , striae , suppressed reactions to skin tests , thin fragile skin , thinning scalp hair , urticaria .
Endocrine : Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance , development of Cushingoid state , glycosuria , hirsutism , hypertrichosis , increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes , manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus , menstrual irregularities , secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness ( particularly in times of stress , as in trauma , surgery , or illness ) , suppression of growth in pediatric patients .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances : Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] , fluid retention , sodium retention .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal distention , bowel / bladder dysfunction ( after intrathecal administration ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , elevation in serum liver enzyme levels ( usually reversible upon discontinuation ) , hepatomegaly , increased appetite , nausea , pancreatitis , peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage , perforation of the small and large intestine ( particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] , ulcerative esophagitis .
Metabolic : Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism .
Musculoskeletal : Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads , calcinosis ( following intra - articular or intralesional use ) , Charcot - like arthropathy , loss of muscle mass , muscle weakness , osteoporosis , pathologic fracture of long bones , post injection flare ( following intra - articular use ) , steroid myopathy , tendon rupture , vertebral compression fractures .
Neurologic / Psychiatric : Convulsions , depression , emotional instability , euphoria , headache , increased intracranial pressure with papilledema ( pseudotumor cerebri ) usually following discontinuation of treatment , insomnia , mood swings , neuritis , neuropathy , paresthesia , personality changes , psychiatric disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] , vertigo .
Arachnoiditis , meningitis , paraparesis / paraplegia , and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration .
Spinal cord infarction , paraplegia , quadriplegia , cortical blindness , and stroke ( including brainstem ) have been reported after epidural administration of corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Ophthalmic : Exophthalmos , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] , posterior subcapsular cataracts , rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections .
Other : Abnormal fat deposits , decreased resistance to infection , hiccups , increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa , malaise , moon face , weight gain .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with ZILRETTA .
Table 3 contains drug interactions associated with systemic corticosteroids .
Table 3 : Drug Interactions Associated with Systemic CorticosteroidsAminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid - induced adrenal suppression .
Amphotericin B injection and potassium - depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium - depleting agents ( i . e . , amphotericin B , diuretics ) , observe patients closely for development of hypokalemia .
There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure .
Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance .
Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis .
If possible , withdraw anticholinesterase agents at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy .
Anticoagulants , oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin , although there have been some conflicting reports .
Therefore , monitor coagulation indices frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect .
Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations , dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required .
Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased .
CYP 3A4 inducers ( e . g . , barbiturates , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampin ) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of corticosteroid be increased .
CYP 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) Ketoconazole , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60 % leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects .
Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids .
Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently .
Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use .
Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia .
Estrogens , including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids , thereby increasing their effect .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) Concomitant use of aspirin ( or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects .
Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia .
The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids .
Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to allergy related skin tests .
Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response .
Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines .
If possible , defer routine administration of vaccines or toxoids until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data regarding the use of ZILRETTA in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Published studies on the association between corticosteroids and fetal outcomes have reported inconsistent findings and have important methodological limitations .
The majority of published literature with corticosteroid exposure during pregnancy includes the oral , topical and inhaled dosage formulations ; therefore , the applicability of these findings to a single intra - articular injection of triamcinolone acetonide is limited .
In animal reproductive studies from the published literature , pregnant mice , rats , rabbits , or primates administered triamcinolone acetonide during the period of organogenesis at doses that produced exposures less than the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) caused resorptions , decreased fetal body weight , craniofacial and / or other abnormalities such as omphalocele ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data The exposure margins listed below are based on body surface area comparisons ( mg / m2 ) to the highest daily triamcinolone acetonide exposure at the MRHD of 32 mg triamcinolone acetonide via ZILRETTA .
Pregnant mice dosed with triamcinolone acetonide via intramuscular or subcutaneous injection at doses equivalent to 0 . 8 times the MRHD or higher during organogenesis caused cleft palate and a higher rate of resorption .
In pregnant rats dosed with triamcinolone acetonide via intramuscular or subcutaneous injection at doses equivalent to 0 . 3 times the MRHD or higher during organogenesis caused developmental abnormality ( cleft palate , omphalocele , late resorption , and growth retardation ) and fetal mortality .
No notable maternal toxicity was observed in rodents .
Pregnant rabbits dosed with triamcinolone acetonide via intramuscular injection for 4 days during organogenesis at doses equivalent to 0 . 15 times the MRHD or higher caused resorption and cleft palate .
No notable maternal toxicity was observed .
Pregnant primates dosed with triamcinolone acetonide via intramuscular injection for 4 days during organogenesis at doses equivalent to 3 times the MRHD or higher caused severe craniofacial CNS and skeletal / visceral malformation and higher prenatal death .
No notable maternal toxicity was observed .
No peri - and post - natal development studies of triamcinolone acetonide in animals have been conducted .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of triamcinolone acetonide in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , corticosteroids have been detected in human milk and may suppress milk production .
It is not known whether intra - articular administration of ZILRETTA could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ZILRETTA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ZILRETTA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Corticosteroids may result in menstrual pattern irregularities such as deviations in timing and duration of menses and an increased or decreased loss of blood .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ZILRETTA in pediatric patients have not been established .
The adverse effects of corticosteroids in pediatric patients are similar to those in adults .
Carefully observe pediatric patients , including weight , height , linear growth , blood pressure , intraocular pressure , and clinical evaluation for the presence of infection , psychosocial disturbances , thromboembolism , peptic ulcers , cataracts , and osteoporosis .
Weigh potential growth effects of treatment against clinical benefits obtained and the availability of treatment alternatives .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients administered 32 mg ZILRETTA in clinical studies ( N = 424 ) , 143 patients were 65 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience with triamcinolone acetonide has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION ZILRETTA ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) is a microsphere formulation of triamcinolone acetonide , a corticosteroid , to be administered by intra - articular injection .
ZILRETTA is formulated in 75 : 25 poly ( lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres with a nominal drug load of 25 % ( w / w ) and is provided as a sterile white to off - white powder .
ZILRETTA is prepared with a supplied diluent containing an isotonic , sterile , aqueous solution of sodium chloride ( NaCl ; 0 . 9 % w / w ) , sodium carboxymethylcellulose ( CMC ; 0 . 5 % w / w ) and polysorbate - 80 ( 0 . 1 % w / w ) to form a 5 mL sterile suspension intended for intra - articular injection .
Active Ingredient The chemical name for triamcinolone acetonide is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MW 434 . 50 with a molecular formula of C24H31FO6 Triamcinolone acetonide occurs as a white to almost white , crystalline powder having not more than a slight odor and is practically insoluble in water and very soluble in alcohol .
Each vial of ZILRETTA powder contains 40 mg of triamcinolone acetonide in 160 mg of microspheres , resulting in 32 mg of deliverable triamcinolone acetonide when prepared according to the Instructions for Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Triamcinolone acetonide is a corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory and immunomodulating properties .
It binds to and activates the glucocorticoid receptor , leading to activation of anti - inflammatory transcription factors such as lipocortins and inhibition of inflammatory transduction pathways by blocking the release of arachidonic acid and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Studies indicate that following a single intramuscular dose of 60 to 100 mg of immediate - release triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , adrenal suppression occurs within 24 to 48 hours and then gradually returns to normal , usually in 30 to 40 days .
To assess potential effects of the systemic levels of triamcinolone acetonide associated with a single intra - articular ( IA ) administration of ZILRETTA on hypothalamic pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) axis function , serum and urine cortisol levels were monitored over 6 weeks post injection .
Adrenal suppression with ZILRETTA occurred within 12 - 24 hours and then gradually returned to normal , within 30 - 42 days .
Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations .
In a study where 18 patients with osteoarthritis knee pain and controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus received a single IA injection of ZILRETTA into the knee , the change from baseline in average blood glucose over the 72 hours after injection as measured by a continuous glucose monitoring device was 8 . 2 mg / dL ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 1 , 29 . 2 ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics ZILRETTA is an extended - release dosage form consisting of microspheres of poly ( lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) containing triamcinolone acetonide .
Plasma pharmacokinetic parameters for triamcinolone acetonide following IA administration of ZILRETTA or 40 mg immediate - release triamcinolone acetonide into the knee are provided in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Summary of Mean ( SD ) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Triamcinolone Acetonide Following IA Administration of ZILRETTA or 40 mg Immediate - Release Triamcinolone Acetonide * 33 patients contributed to the analyses of these parameters † 14 patients contributed to the analyses of these parameters 1 Median ( min , max ) values for tmax Triamcinolone Acetonide PK Parameters1 ZILRETTA ( N = 60 ) Triamcinolone Acetonide ( N = 18 ) Cmax ( pg / mL ) 1 , 143 . 7 ( 611 . 06 ) 21 , 062 . 2 ( 18 , 466 . 79 ) AUC0 - 24 hour ( pg • h / mL ) 21 , 219 . 2 ( 11 , 325 . 62 ) 297 , 545 . 3 ( 222 , 402 . 77 ) AUC0 - inf ( pg • h / mL ) 842 , 149 . 2 ( 1 , 062 , 004 . 97 ) * 1 , 567 , 565 . 0 ( 1 , 246 , 330 . 95 ) † tmax ( h ) 7 ( 1 , 1 , 008 ) 6 ( 2 , 24 ) t1 / 2 ( h ) 633 . 9 ( 893 . 0 ) * 146 . 9 ( 213 . 29 ) † 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ZILRETTA have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Adequate mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with ZILRETTA .
Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals to evaluate the impairment of fertility of ZILRETTA have not been conducted .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Single and repeat administrations ( one injection every three months for a total of three injections ) of ZILRETTA in non - arthritic knee joints of healthy dogs have been studied at ~ 1 . 9 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 32 mg ( based on estimated drug concentrations within the knee joints ) .
ZILRETTA microspheres were degraded by approximately 4 - and 6 - months post dosing in single and repeat dose studies , respectively .
Single administration resulted in a slightly increased incidence , severity ( minimal to slight ) , and / or duration of microscopic changes ( infiltration of macrophages , lymphocytes , plasma cells and fibrosis ) and decreased Safranin O staining ( decreased proteoglycan content in the cartilage of the knees ) compared to administration of an equivalent dose of immediate - release triamcinolone acetonide .
These responses were mostly reversed after 6 to 9 months post injection .
Repeat administration resulted in an increase in the incidence , severity ( minimal to slight ) and duration of microscopic changes ( infiltration of macrophages , lymphocytes , plasma cells , neutrophils ; fibrosis ; neovascularization ; granulation tissue ; and debris ) and decreased Safranin O staining ( decreased proteoglycan content in the cartilage of the knees ) compared to the equivalent dose of immediate - release triamcinolone acetonide .
These local responses were still reversing at 6 months post the last injection .
No effect on the animals according to observations related to gait / walking , pain / discomfort in the injected knee , local swelling , local redness or local tenderness were noted .
The clinical relevance of these findings in the arthritic knee is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of ZILRETTA was demonstrated in a multi - center , international , randomized , double - blind , parallel - arm , placebo - and active - controlled study in patients with osteoarthritis pain of the knee .
A total of 484 patients ( ZILRETTA 32 mg , N = 161 ; placebo [ saline ] , N = 162 ; active control [ a crystalline suspension , immediate - release formulation of triamcinolone acetonide 40 mg ] , N = 161 ) were treated and followed for up to 24 weeks .
Patients had a mean age of 62 ( range 40 to 85 years ) ; baseline demographics and disease characteristics were balanced across treatment arms .
Twenty - five percent ( 25 % ) of patients had received at least one prior corticosteroid intra - articular injection more than 3 months prior to treatment .
A total of 470 patients ( 97 % ) completed follow - up to Week 12 , the time point for primary efficacy determination , and 443 ( 91 . 5 % ) completed to Week 24 .
The primary efficacy endpoint comparing ZILRETTA to placebo was change from baseline at Week 12 in the weekly mean of the Average Daily Pain intensity scores ( ADP ) as assessed by a 0 - 10 Numeric Rating Scale ( NRS ) .
ZILRETTA demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in pain intensity at the primary endpoint vs placebo .
ZILRETTA also demonstrated a reduction in pain intensity scores each week from Weeks 1 through 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Weekly Change from Baseline to Week 12 in Average Daily Pain [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Description NDC Presentation / How Supplied ZILRETTA NDC 70801 - 003 - 01 ZILRETTA ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) single - dose kit .
Kit Contents ZILRETTA microsphere powder NDC 70801 - 001 - 01 5 mL single - dose vial to deliver 32 mg of triamcinolone acetonide supplied as a sterile , white to off - white powder in a cerium glass ( clear ) vial with a rubber stopper and an aluminum seal with a gray plastic cap .
Diluent NDC 70801 - 002 - 01 5 mL single - dose vial supplied as a sterile , clear liquid solution of 0 . 9 % w / w sodium chloride ( normal saline ) containing 0 . 5 % w / w sodium carboxymethylcellulose , and 0 . 1 % w / w polysorbate - 80 in a glass vial with a rubber stopper , aluminum seal and white plastic cap .
Sterile vial adapter STORAGE To maintain expiry period , refrigerate the ZILRETTA single - dose kit ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ; 2 ° - 8 ° C ) before use .
If refrigeration is unavailable , store the ZILRETTA single - dose kit in the sealed , unopened kit at temperatures not exceeding 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for up to six weeks and then discard .
Do not expose the ZILRETTA single - dose kit to temperatures above 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Store vials in carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Increased Risk of Infections Inform patients that they may be more likely to develop infections when taking corticosteroids .
Instruct patients to contact their health care provider if they develop fever or other signs or symptoms of infection .
Advise patients who have not been vaccinated to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles .
Instruct patients to contact their health care provider immediately if they are exposed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Risk of Drug Interactions There are a number of medicines that can interact with corticosteroids such as triamcinolone acetonide .
Advise patients to alert their health care provider ( s ) to assess the need to adjust their medication ( s ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Risk of Adverse Psychiatric Reactions Inform patients that corticosteroid use may be associated with adverse psychiatric reactions .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to immediately report any new or worsening behavioral or mood disturbances to their health care provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Manufactured for Flexion Therapeutics , Inc . , 10 Mall Rd , Suite 301 , Burlington , MA 01803 ZILRETTA and Flexion are registered trademarks of Flexion Therapeutics , Inc .
Copyright © 2020 Flexion Therapeutics , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to ZILRETTA . com or call 1 - 844 - FLEXION ( 353 - 9466 ) .
Part Number : 60 - 009 - 04 Version : 4 , 01 / 2020 Instructions for Use ZILRETTA ® ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) For intra - articular injection only Single - dose device Do not reuse .
IMPORTANT INFORMATION • ZILRETTA must be prepared using only the diluent supplied in the kit .
• To ensure proper dosing , it is important that you follow the preparation and administration steps outlined in these instructions .
• Promptly inject ZILRETTA after preparation to avoid settling of the suspension .
• ZILRETTA is supplied as a single - dose kit and administered as a suspension containing microspheres .
• The ZILRETTA powder vial contains an overfill to allow the appropriate dose to be withdrawn .
ZILRETTA is a suspension product and it is normal for some residue to be left behind on the vial walls after withdrawing the contents .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• Use proper aseptic technique throughout the dose preparation and administration procedure .
• Inspect all kit components to confirm they have not expired and the seals are intact .
• For additional information , visit www . zilretta . com or call Flexion Therapeutics at 1 - 844 - FLEXION ( 353 - 9466 ) .
MATERIALS REQUIRED ( Fig . 1 ) Supplied • One 32 mg vial of ZILRETTA microsphere powder • One 5 mL vial of sterile diluent • One sterile vial adapter Not Supplied • Three sterile needles , 21 - gauge , 1 ½ " length • One sterile Luer Lock compatible syringe , 5 mL • Sterile alcohol pads • Paper towels or pad to cushion vial tapping ( not shown in Fig . 1 ) • Medical - grade gloves ( not shown in Fig . 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 1 .
Vial Preparation Loosen Powder .
Place two paper towels or a pad on a properly - cleaned hard surface .
Grip the top of the ZILRETTA powder vial and tap firmly and repeatedly on the padded surface .
Tap the vial until excess powder is dislodged from the vial and stopper ( Fig . 2 ) .
Before continuing , ensure that powder moves freely within the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 Inspect ZILRETTA Powder Vial .
As shown in Figure 3 , the vial on the left , with the X , requires additional tapping because the powder is not properly dislodged .
The vial on the right shows the powder properly dislodged and ready for the next step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 Remove Caps .
Remove the flip - off caps from the ZILRETTA powder and diluent vials ( Fig . 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 Clean Vials .
Clean the ZILRETTA powder and diluent vial tops with an alcohol pad .
Use a separate alcohol pad for each vial .
Peel Off Vial Adapter Cover .
Peel off the paper cover from the vial adapter package ( Fig . 5 ) .
Leave the adapter in the plastic holder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 Attach Vial Adapter to ZILRETTA Powder Vial .
Grip the plastic holder that contains the vial adapter .
As shown in Figure 6 , place the ZILRETTA powder vial on a flat surface .
In a vertical orientation , gently push the adapter down onto the ZILRETTA powder vial until the spike on the adapter penetrates the rubber stopper on the ZILRETTA powder vial .
The adapter will snap into place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 2 .
Diluent Preparation Attach Needle .
Attach a needle to the syringe and remove the needle guard .
Withdraw Diluent .
With a syringe and needle , withdraw 5 mL of diluent .
Replace the needle guard .
3 .
Dose Preparation Remove Holder .
Remove the plastic holder from the vial adapter ( Fig . 7 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 Remove Needle .
Remove the needle from the syringe containing diluent .
Attach Diluent Syringe .
Attach the syringe onto the vial adapter by pushing down and turning clockwise until you feel resistance ( Fig . 8 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 Transfer Diluent .
Slowly and completely push down the syringe plunger to transfer the diluent into the ZILRETTA powder vial ( Fig . 9 ) .
Note : Equalize the pressure in the syringe by slowly pulling back the plunger to the 5 mL mark .
Ensure that no solution is drawn back into the syringe at this stage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 9 Mix Diluent and Powder ( Fig . 10 ) .
With the syringe still attached to the ZILRETTA powder vial , hold the syringe and vial at a slight angle .
Tap the bottom edge of the vial firmly and repeatedly , in a circular motion , on the padded surface .
Swirl gently every five or six taps .
Tap for at least one minute until all powder is completely dispersed .
Note : Avoid vigorous shaking of the vial to minimize foaming .
Note : At least one minute of tapping and gentle swirling is required to achieve uniform suspension .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 10 Inspect Vial .
Inspect the ZILRETTA powder vial to ensure no clumped powder is visible and a uniform suspension has been achieved .
A properly mixed suspension will be milky white , contain no clumps , and move freely down the vial wall .
As shown in Figure 11 , the vial on the left , with the X , requires more tapping and gentle swirling because the powder is not mixed properly with the diluent .
The vial on the right shows the powder properly mixed and ready for the next step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 11 Note : If needed , the ZILRETTA suspension can be stored in the vial for up to 4 hours at ambient conditions .
The syringe must remain on the vial adapter while the suspension remains in the vial .
Withdraw Contents into Syringe .
Swirl the vial gently for at least 10 seconds to ensure the powder is fully suspended .
Immediately depress the plunger fully and then invert the syringe so the vial is directly on top of the syringe ( Fig . 12 ) .
Hold the syringe in a completely vertical position , per the illustration on the right , in Figure 12 .
Withdraw the full contents from the ZILRETTA vial into the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 12 Note : ZILRETTA is a suspension product and it is normal for some residue to be left behind on the vial walls after withdrawing the contents .
Remove Syringe .
Remove the syringe from the vial adapter by turning counter - clockwise .
Remove Air Bubbles .
Attach a new needle to the syringe and remove the needle guard .
Inspect for bubbles with the syringe held in a completely vertical position ( needle upward ) .
If bubbles are observed , gently tap the syringe with your finger until the bubbles rise to the top .
Eliminate all bubbles by slowly depressing the plunger to displace the air from the syringe .
Replace the needle guard .
Attach New Needle .
Remove and discard the needle .
Attach a new needle .
4 .
Administration Invert Syringe .
To ensure the powder is suspended , gently invert the syringe containing ZILRETTA several times just prior to administration , as shown in Figure 13 .
Grip the syringe firmly and turn it so the syringe plunger is pointing straight down .
Then turn the syringe gently , 180 degrees , until the plunger is pointing straight up .
Invert the syringe several times to ensure a properly mixed suspension .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 13 A properly mixed suspension will be uniformly milky white and contain no clumps .
Inspect Syringe .
As shown in Figure 14 , the syringe on the left , with the X , requires more inversions ( turning ) to properly mix the suspension .
The syringe on the right shows the suspension properly mixed and ready for the next step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 14 Administer ZILRETTA .
The usual technique for intra - articular injection should be followed .
Aspiration of synovial fluid may be performed based on clinical judgment prior to administration of ZILRETTA .
Do not reuse excess ZILRETTA .
Any excess suspension in the vial should be thrown away immediately after the injection .
Leftover ZILRETTA in the vial must never be reused for another injection .
Note : The entire contents of the syringe must be injected to ensure the intended dose of ZILRETTA is delivered .
Note : Discard all used components in an appropriate medical waste container according to local regulations .
Note : ZILRETTA is for intra - articular use only .
ZILRETTA is not intended for epidural , intrathecal , intravenous , intraocular , intramuscular , intradermal , or subcutaneous use .
Part Number : 60 - 005 - 02 Rev : 05 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta Cart 32 mg Carton Label NDC 70801 - 003 - 01 Rx Only Zilretta ® ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) 32 mg per vial For intra - articular injection only .
Single - dose kit .
Discard unused portion .
Must be reconstituted with the supplied diluent .
This carton contains : 1 Vial of Zilretta microsphere powder 1 Vial of diluent ( 5 mL ) for Zilretta 1 sterile vial adapter flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta Cart 32 mg Professional Carton Label NDC 70801 - 003 - 02 Rx Only Zilretta ® ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) 32 mg per vial For intra - articular injection only .
Single - dose kit .
Discard unused portion .
Must be reconstituted with the supplied diluent .
PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE NOT FOR SALE OR REIMBURSEMENT This carton contains : 1 Vial of Zilretta microsphere powder 1 Vial of diluent ( 5 mL ) for Zilretta 1 sterile vial adapter flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta 32 mg Vial Label NDC 70801 - 001 - 01 Rx Only Zilretta ® ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) 32 mg per vial For intra - articular injection only .
Must be reconstituted with the supplied diluent .
flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta 32 mg Professional Vial Label NDC 70801 - 001 - 02 Rx Only Zilretta ® ( triamcinolone acetonide extended - release injectable suspension ) 32 mg per vial For intra - articular injection only .
Must be reconstituted with the supplied diluent .
flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta Diluent 5 mL Vial Label NDC 70801 - 002 - 01 Rx Only DILUENT for use with Zilretta ® 5 mL Sterile single - use vial Do not administer directly .
flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Zilretta Diluent 5 mL Professional Vial Label NDC 70801 - 002 - 02 Rx Only DILUENT for use with Zilretta ® 5 mL Sterile single - use vial Do not administer directly .
flexion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
