DESCRIPTION PRE - PEN ® ( benzylpenicilloyl polylysine injection USP ) is a sterile solution of benzylpenicilloyl polylysine in a concentration of 6 . 0 X 10 - 5 M ( benzylpenicilloyl ) in 0 . 01 M phosphate buffer and 0 . 15 M sodium chloride .
The benzylpenicilloyl polylysine in PRE - PEN is a derivative of poly - l - lysine , where the epsilon amino groups are substituted with benzylpenicilloyl groups ( 50 - 70 % ) forming benzylpenicilloyl alpha amide .
Each single dose ampule contains 0 . 25 mL of PRE - PEN .
PRE - PEN has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PRE - PEN is a skin test antigen reagent that reacts specifically with benzylpenicilloyl IgE antibodies initiating the release of chemical mediators which produce an immediate wheal and flare reaction at a skin test site .
All individuals exhibiting a positive skin test to PRE - PEN possess IgE against the benzylpenicilloyl structural group which is a hapten .
A hapten is a low molecular weight chemical that conjugates with a carrier ( e . g . poly - l - lysine ) resulting in the formation of an antigen with the hapten ’ s specificity .
The benzylpenicilloyl hapten is the major antigenic determinant in penicillin - allergic individuals .
However , many individuals reacting positively to PRE - PEN will not develop a systemic allergic reaction on subsequent exposure to therapeutic penicillin , especially among those who have not reacted to penicillins in the past .
Thus , the PRE - PEN skin test determines the presence of penicilloyl IgE antibodies which are necessary but not sufficient for acute allergic reactions due to the major penicilloyl determinant .
Non - benzylpenicilloyl haptens are designated as minor determinants , since they less frequently elicit an immune response in penicillin treated individuals .
The minor determinants may nevertheless be associated with significant clinical hypersensitivity .
PRE - PEN does not react with IgE antibodies directed against non - benzylpenicilloyl haptens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRE - PEN is indicated for the assessment of sensitization to penicillin ( benzylpenicillin or penicillin G ) in patients suspected to have clinical penicillin hypersensitivity .
A negative skin test to PRE - PEN is associated with an incidence of immediate allergic reactions of less than 5 % after the administration of therapeutic penicillin , whereas the incidence may be more than 50 % in a history - positive patient with a positive skin test to PRE - PEN .
These allergic reactions are predominantly dermatologic .
Whether a negative skin test to PRE - PEN predicts a lower risk of anaphylaxis is not established .
Similarly , when deciding the risk of proposed penicillin treatment , there are not enough data at present to permit relative weighing in individual cases of a history of clinical penicillin hypersensitivity as compared to positive skin tests to PRE - PEN and / or minor penicillin determinants .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PRE - PEN is contraindicated in those patients who have exhibited either a systemic or marked local reaction to its previous administration .
Patients known to be extremely hypersensitive to penicillin should not be skin tested .
WARNINGS The risk of sensitization to repeated skin testing with PRE - PEN is not established .
Rarely , a systemic allergic reaction including anaphylaxis ( see below ) may follow a skin test with PRE - PEN .
To decrease the risk of a systemic allergic reaction , puncture skin testing should be performed first .
Intradermal skin testing should be performed only if the puncture test is entirely negative .
PRECAUTIONS General No reagent , test , or combination of tests will completely assure that a reaction to penicillin therapy will not occur .
The value of the PRE - PEN skin test alone as a means of assessing the risk of administering therapeutic penicillin ( when penicillin is the preferred drug of choice ) in the following situations is not established : • 1 .
Adult patients who give no history of clinical penicillin hypersensitivity .
• 2 .
Pediatric patients .
In addition , the clinical value of PRE - PEN where exposure to penicillin is suspected as a cause of a current drug reaction or in patients who are undergoing routine allergy evaluation is not known .
Likewise , the clinical value of PRE - PEN skin tests alone in determining the risk of administering semi - synthetic penicillins ( phenoxymethyl penicillin , ampicillin , carbenicillin , dicloxacillin , methicillin , nafcillin , oxacillin , amoxicillin ) , cephalosporin - derived antibiotics , and penem antibiotics is not known .
In addition to the results of the PRE - PEN skin test , the decision to administer or not administer penicillin should take into account individual patient factors .
Healthcare professionals should keep in mind the following : • 1 .
A serious allergic reaction to therapeutic penicillin may occur in a patient with a negative skin test to PRE - PEN .
• 2 .
It is possible for a patient to have an anaphylactic reaction to therapeutic penicillin in the presence of a negative PRE - PEN skin test and a negative history of clinical penicillin hypersensitivity .
• 3 .
If penicillin is the drug of choice for a life - threatening infection , successful desensitization with therapeutic penicillin may be possible irrespective of a positive skin test and / or a positive history of clinical penicillin hypersensitivity .
Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PRE - PEN .
It is not known whether PRE - PEN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
The hazards of skin testing in such patients should be weighed against the hazard of penicillin therapy without skin testing .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Occasionally , patients may develop an intense local inflammatory response at the skin test site .
Rarely , patients will develop a systemic allergic reaction , manifested by generalized erythema , pruritus , angioedema , urticaria , dyspnea , hypotension , and anaphylaxis .
The usual methods of treating a skin test antigen - induced reaction — the applications of a venous occlusion tourniquet proximal to the skin test site and administration of epinephrine are recommended .
The patient should be kept under observation for several hours .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SKIN TESTING DOSAGE AND TECHNIQUE Skin testing responses can be attenuated by interfering drugs ( e . g . H1 - antihistamines and vasopressors ) .
Skin testing should be delayed until the effects of such drugs have dissipated , or a separate skin test with histamine can be used to evaluate persistent antihistaminic effects in vivo .
Due to the risk of potential systemic allergic reactions , skin testing should be performed in an appropriate healthcare setting under direct medical supervision .
Puncture Testing : Skin testing is usually performed on the inner volar aspect of the forearm .
The skin test antigen should always be applied first by the puncture technique .
After preparing the skin surface , apply a small drop of PRE - PEN solution using a sterile 22 - 28 gauge needle .
The same needle can then be used to make a single shallow puncture of the epidermis through the drop of PRE - PEN .
Very little pressure is required to break the epidermal continuity .
Observe for the appearance of a wheal , erythema , and the occurrence of itching at the test site during the succeeding 15 minutes at which time the solution over the puncture site is wiped off .
A positive reaction consists of the development within 10 minutes of a pale wheal , sometimes with pseudopods , surrounding the puncture site and varying in diameter from 5 to 15 mm ( or more ) .
This wheal may be surrounded by a variable diameter of erythema , and accompanied by a variable degree of itching .
The most sensitive individuals develop itching quickly , and the wheal and erythema are prompt in their appearance .
As soon as a positive response as defined above is clearly evident , the solution over the scratch should be immediately wiped off .
If the puncture test is either negative or equivocally positive ( less than 5 mm wheal with little or no erythema and no itching ) , an intradermal test may be performed .
The lntradermal Test : Using a 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 cc syringe with a 3 / 8 ” to 5 / 8 ” long , 26 to 30 gauge , short bevel needle , withdraw the contents of the ampule .
Prepare with an alcohol swab a skin test area on the upper , outer arm , sufficiently below the deltoid muscle to permit proximal application of a tourniquet later , if necessary .
Be sure to eject all air from the syringe through the needle , then insert the needle , bevel up immediately below the skin surface .
Inject an amount of PRE - PEN sufficient to raise a small intradermal bleb of about 3 mm in diameter , in duplicate at least 2 cm apart .
Using a separate syringe and needle , inject a like amount of saline or allergen diluting solution as a control at least 5 cm removed from the antigen test sites .
Most skin reactions will develop within 5 - 15 minutes and response to the skin test is read at 20 minutes as follows : Negative response — no increase in size of original bleb and no greater reaction than the control site .
Ambiguous response — wheal only slightly larger than initial injection bleb , with or without accompanying erythematous flare and slightly larger than the control site ; OR discordance between duplicates .
Positive response — itching and significant increase in size of original blebs to at least 5 mm .
Wheal may exceed 20 mm in diameter and exhibit pseudopods .
If the control site exhibits a wheal greater than 2 - 3 mm , repeat the test , and if the same reaction is observed , a physician experienced with allergy skin testing should be consulted .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC 49471 - 001 - 05 PRE - PEN ® ( benzylpenicilloyl polylysine injection USP ) is a clear , colorless , sterile solution supplied in ampules containing 0 . 25 mL .
Box of 5 single dose ampules .
Ampules are opened by snapping the neck of the ampule using two forefingers of each hand .
Visually inspect for glass chards before use .
Each ampule is for single patient use only .
Discard any unused portion .
PRE - PEN is optimally stored under refrigeration ( 2 - 8 ° C ) .
PRE - PEN subjected to ambient temperatures for more than 24 hours should be discarded .
As with all parenteral drug products , PRE - PEN should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Rx only Manufactured by AllerQuest LLC 10 Farmington Valley Drive , Suite 106 , Plainville , CT 06062 Distributed by ALK - Abelló , Inc . 35 Channel Drive , Port Washington , NY 11050 Printed in USA PRPE399999 07 / 13 18232 © 2013 ALK - Abelló , Inc . and AllerQuest LLC PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Part No .
PRPE399999 NDC 49471 - 001 - 05 Pre - Pen ® ( benzylpenicilloyl polylysine injection USP ) SKIN TEST ANTIGEN 6 . 0 X 10 - 5 M ( benzylpenicilloyl ) in 0 . 15 M sodium chloride and 0 . 01 M phosphate buffer at pH 7 . 6 Rx Only Distributed by ALK - ABELLÓ Manufactured by AllerQuest , LLC GTIN 00349471001056 Serial No . 100001 Lot XXXXXX Exp XX / XX Made in USA © 2018 ALK - Abelló , Inc . © 2018 AllerQuest , LLC USUAL DOSAGE : Skin Test Antigen Each ampule contains 0 . 25 mL , which is sufficient for both puncture and intradermal testing in duplicate in a single patient only .
Discard any unused portion .
See package insert for detailed instructions for use .
PRE - PEN ® should be stored under refrigeration at 2 - 8 ° C . Skin test antigen subjected to ambient temperatures for more than 24 hours should be discarded .
KEEP UNDER REFRIGERATION 2 - 8 ° C . Discard if particulate matter or discoloration present .
NDC 49471 - 001 - 05 Part No .
PRPE399999 Manufactured by : AllerQuest , LLC Plainville , CT 06062 Distributed by : ALK - Abelló , Inc .
Port Washington , NY 11050 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
