0642 - 7468 - 30 Rx Only These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease .
COMPOSITION Amount per daily dose ( 1 strip ) VITAMINS AND MINERALS : Calories 1 Total Carbohydrates 0 g Sugars 0 g Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 1000 IU Other Ingredients : Sentry Polyox WSR N80 LEO , maltitol syrup , methocel ( hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ) , sodium citrate anhydrous , lemon flavor , sucralose , butylated hydroxytoluene , peceol , water .
USAGE Vitafol ® Strips provides vitamin and mineral supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating women .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® Strips is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS This product is intended for use as directed by your healthcare provider .
Please do not share with others .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Do not use if inner seal is broken or missing .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
Keep out of the reach of children .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbitol , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® Strips .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Before , during and after pregnancy , take one Vitafol ® Strip daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® Strips is available as an orange rectangular film with " V " logo printed on one side .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack in pouch of 30 counts , Item No . 0642 - 7468 - 30 and as physician sample in pouch of 3 counts , Item No . 0642 - 7468 - 01 .
Store at room temperature , approximately 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat , moisture and protect from light .
To report suspected adverse event contact Exeltis USA , Inc . , at 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 or at FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Made in USA .
Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisUSA . com © 2018 Exeltis USA , Inc .
Vitafol ® is a trademark of Exeltis USA , Inc .
Rev . August 2018 4683001 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Strip Pouch Box 0642 - 7468 - 30 VITAFOL STRIPS Prenatal Supplement Strips with 1 mg folic acid Fast Dissolving Strip Unit Dose Pack / 30 Strips Rx Only DIETARY SUPPLEMENT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
