DESCRIPTION Mafenide Acetate , USP is a synthetic antimicrobial agent designated chemically as α - amino - p - toluenesulfonamide monoacetate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mafenide Acetate , USP is a white , crystalline powder which is freely soluble in water .
Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution is provided in packets containing 50 g of sterile Mafenide Acetate to be reconstituted in 1000 mL of Sterile Water for Irrigation , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation , USP .
After mixing , the solution contains 5 % w / v of mafenide acetate .
The solution is an antimicrobial preparation suitable for topical administration .
The solution is not for injection .
The reconstituted solution may be held up to 28 days after preparation if stored in unopened containers .
ONCE A CONTAINER IS OPENED , ANY UNUSED PORTION SHOULD BE DISCARDED AFTER 48 HOURS .
Store the reconstituted solution at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Limited storage periods at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) are acceptable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : The mechanism of action of Mafenide is not known , but is different from that of the sulfonamides .
Mafenide is not antagonized by pABA , serum , pus or tissue exudates , and there is no correlation between bacterial sensitivities to mafenide and to the sulfonamides .
Its activity is not altered by changes in the acidity of the environment .
The osmolality of the 5 % topical solution is approximately 340 mOsm / kg .
Absorption and Metabolism : Applied topically , Mafenide Acetate diffuses through devascularized areas .
Approximately 80 % of a Mafenide Acetate dose is delivered to burned tissue over four hours following topical application of the 5 % solution .
Following application of Mafenide Acetate cream and solution , peak Mafenide concentrations in human burned skin tissue occur at two and four hours , respectively .
Peak tissue concentrations are similar following administration of the solution or cream .
Once absorbed , Mafenide is rapidly converted to an inactive metabolite ( p - carboxybenzenesulfonamide ) which is cleared through the kidneys .
Clinical studies have shown that when applied topically to burns as an 11 . 2 % Mafenide Acetate cream , blood levels of the parent drug peaked at 2 hours following application , ranging from 26 to 197 µg / mL for single doses of 14 to 77 g of Mafenide Acetate .
Metabolite levels peaked at 3 hours , ranging from 10 to 340 µg / mL .
Twenty - four hours after application , combined parent and metabolite blood levels had fallen to pretreatment levels .
Antimicrobial Activity : Mafenide Acetate exerts broad bacteriostatic action against many gram - negative and gram - positive organisms , including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and certain strains of anaerobes .
In Vitro Cytotoxicity : Data from in vitro studies on cell culture suggests that Mafenide Acetate may have a deleterious effect on human keratinocytes .
The clinical significance of this information is unknown .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution is indicated for use as an adjunctive topical antimicrobial agent to control bacterial infection when used under moist dressings over meshed autografts on excised burn wounds .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to mafenide acetate .
It is not known whether there is cross sensitivity to other sulfonamides .
WARNINGS Fatal hemolytic anemia with disseminated intravascular coagulation , presumably related to a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , has been reported following therapy with Mafenide Acetate .
PRECAUTIONS General : Mafenide Acetate and its metabolite , p - carboxybenzenesulfonamide , inhibit carbonic anhydrase , which may result in metabolic acidosis , usually compensated by hyperventilation .
In the presence of impaired renal function , high blood levels of Mafenide Acetate and its metabolite may exaggerate the carbonic anhydrase inhibition .
Therefore , close monitoring of acid - base balance is necessary , particularly in patients with extensive second - degree or partial thickness burns and in those with pulmonary or renal dysfunction .
Some burn patients treated with Mafenide Acetate have also been reported to manifest an unexplained syndrome of masked hyperventilation with resulting respiratory alkalosis ( slightly alkaline blood pH , low arterial pCO2 , and decreased total CO2 ) ; change in arterial pO2 is variable .
The etiology and significance of these findings are unknown .
Mafenide Acetate should be used with caution in burn patients with acute renal failure .
Fungal colonization may occur concomitantly with reduction of bacterial growth in the burn wound .
However , systemic fungal infection through the infected burn wound is rare .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Mafenide Acetate ; however , the drug did not induce mutations in L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells at the TK locus .
Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the potential effects of Mafenide Acetate on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C : A teratology study performed in rats using oral doses of up to 600 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to Mafenide Acetate .
There are no adequate data regarding the potential reproductive toxicity of Mafenide Acetate in a non - rodent species , nor are there adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Mafenide Acetate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether mafenide acetate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from mafenide acetate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of mafenide acetate , USP for 5 % topical solution have been established in the age groups 3 months to 16 years .
Geriatric Use No studies have been conducted to specifically examine the effects of mafenide acetate on burn wounds in geriatric patients .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether Mafenide Acetate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Mafenide Acetate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution have been established in the age groups 3 months to 16 years .
Geriatric Use : No studies have been conducted to specifically examine the effects of Mafenide Acetate on burn wounds in geriatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In the clinical setting of severe burns , it is often difficult to distinguish between an adverse reaction to Mafenide Acetate and burn sequelae .
In a clinical study of pediatric patients with acute burns requiring autografts who received Mafenide Acetate , USP for 5 % SOLUTION in addition to double antibiotic solution ( DAB ) wound therapy ( neomycin sulfate 40 mg and polymyxin B 200 , 000 units / liter ) , the incidence of rash ( 4 . 6 % ) and itching ( 2 . 8 % ) in the group which received Mafenide Acetate USP For 5 % Solution was not different from that experienced with ( DAB ) dressings alone ( 5 . 7 % and 1 . 3 % , respectively ) .
From other clinical settings , a single case of bone marrow depression and a single case of an acute attack of porphyria have been reported following therapy with Mafenide Acetate .
Fatal hemolytic anemia with disseminated intravascular coagulation , presumably related to a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , has been reported following therapy with mafenide acetate .
The following adverse reactions have been reported with topical Mafenide Acetate therapy : Dermatologic and Allergic : Pain or burning sensation , rash and pruritus ( often localized to the area covered by the wound dressing ) , erythema , skin maceration from prolonged wet dressings , facial edema , swelling , hives , blisters , eosinophilia .
Respiratory or Metabolic : Tachypnea , hyperventilation , decrease in pCO2 , metabolic acidosis , increase in serum chloride .
OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of 2000 mg / kg of Mafenide Acetate as a 5 % solution did not cause mortality or clinical symptoms of toxicity in rats .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution : Directions for Preparation of the Solution : Mafenide Acetate for 5 % Topical Solution is supplied as a sterile powder and is to be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Irrigation , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation , USP .
Aseptic techniques should be observed during preparation of the solution .
Pre - measured quantities of 50 g of Mafenide Acetate powder are provided in sterile packets .
The entire quantity of Mafenide Acetate , USP For 5 % Topical Solution should be emptied into a suitable container which contains 1000 mL of Sterile Water for Irrigation , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation , USP and mixed until completely dissolved .
The reconstituted solution may be held up to 28 days after preparation if stored in unopened containers .
ONCE A CONTAINER IS OPENED , ANY UNUSED PORTION SHOULD BE DISCARDED AFTER 48 HOURS .
Store the reconstituted solution at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Limited storage periods at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) are acceptable .
Not for Injection - For Topical Use Only .
Directions for Use of the Solution : The grafted area should be covered with one layer of fine mesh gauze .
An eight - ply burn dressing should be cut to the size of the graft and wetted with Mafenide Acetate , USP for 5 % solution using an irrigation syringe and / or irrigation tubing until leaking is noticeable .
If irrigation tubing is used , the tubing should be placed over the burn dressing in contact with the wound and covered with a second piece of eight - ply dressing .
The irrigation dressing should be secured with a bolster dressing and wrapped as appropriate .
The gauze dressing should be kept wet .
In clinical studies , this has been accomplished by irrigating with a syringe or injecting the solution into the irrigation tubing every 4 hours or as necessary .
If irrigation tubing is not used , the gauze dressing may be moistened every 6 – 8 hours or as necessary to keep wet .
Wound dressings may be left undisturbed , except for the irrigations , for up to five days .
Additional soaks may be initiated until graft take is complete .
Maceration of skin may result from wet dressings applied for intervals as short as 24 hours .
Treatment is usually continued until autograft vascularization occurs and healing is progressing ( typically occurring in about 5 days ) .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established for longer than 5 days for an individual grafting procedure .
If allergic manifestations occur during treatment with Mafenide Acetate , USP for 5 % solution , discontinuation of treatment should be considered .
If acidosis occurs and becomes difficult to control , particularly in patients with pulmonary dysfunction , discontinuing the soaks with the mafenide acetate solution for 24 to 48 hours may aid in restoring acid - base balance ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
Dressing changes and monitoring the site for bacterial growth during this interruption should be adjusted accordingly .
HOW SUPPLIED Mafenide Acetate , USP for 5 % Topical Solution is available in packets containing 50 g of sterile Mafenide Acetate to be prepared using 1000 mL Sterile Water for Irrigation , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation , USP .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : MAFENIDE ACETATE USP for 5 % Topical Solution : Directions for Preparation of the Solution . )
The packets are supplied as follows : Carton of five 50 g packets ( NDC # 49884 - 902 - 78 ) .
Recommended Storage Packets - Store PACKETS in a dry place at room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Prepared Solution - Store SOLUTION at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
The solution may be held for up to 28 days if stored in unopened containers .
ONCE A CONTAINER IS OPENED , ANY UNUSED SOLUTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 48 HOURS .
Dist .
by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 U . S . A . Mfg . by : Par Formulations Private Limited , 9 / 215 , Pudupakkam , Kelambakkam - 603 103 .
Made in India Mfg . Lic .
No . : TN00002121 OS902 - 01 - 74 - 01 Revised : 05 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
