1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % is indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % is a mast cell stabilizer indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye once a day .
The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye once a day .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % : each mL contains 2 . 22 mg of olopatadine hydrochloride .
Ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % : each mL contains 2 . 22 mg of olopatadine hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS For topical ocular use only .
Not for injection or oral use .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 For topical ocular use only Not for injection or oral use .
5 . 2 Contamination of Tip and Solution As with any eye drop , to prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 3 Contact Lens Use Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation .
The preservative in Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red , should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % before they insert their contact lenses .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms similar to cold syndrome and pharyngitis were reported at an incidence of approximately 10 % .
The following adverse experiences have been reported in 5 % or less of patients : Ocular : blurred vision , burning or stinging , conjunctivitis , dry eye , foreign body sensation , hyperemia , hypersensitivity , keratitis , lid edema , pain and ocular pruritus .
Non - ocular : asthenia , back pain , flu syndrome , headache , increased cough , infection , nausea , rhinitis , sinusitis and taste perversion .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
Symptoms similar to cold syndrome and pharyngitis were reported at an incidence of approximately 10 % .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C Olopatadine was found not to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
However , rats treated at 600 mg / kg / day , or 150 , 000 times the MROHD and rabbits treated at 400 mg / kg / day , or approximately 100 , 000 times the MROHD , during organogenesis showed a decrease in live fetuses .
In addition , rats treated with 600 mg / kg / day of olopatadine during organogenesis showed a decrease in fetal weight .
Further , rats treated with 600 mg / kg / day of olopatadine during late gestation through the lactation period showed a decrease in neonatal survival and body weight .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human responses , this drug should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Olopatadine has been identified in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration .
It is not known whether topical ocular administration could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in the human breast milk .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing olopatadine for topical administration to the eyes .
Olopatadine hydrochloride is a white , crystalline , water - soluble powder with a molecular weight of 373 . 88 and a molecular formula of C21H23NO3 • HCl .
The chemical structure is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 11 - [ ( Z ) - 3 - ( Dimethylamino ) propylidene ] - 6 - 11 - dihydrodibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - 2 - acetic acid , hydrochloride Each mL of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % contains : Active : 2 . 22 mg Olopatadine Hydrochloride equivalent to 2 mg Olopatadine .
Inactives : Povidone ; Dibasic Sodium Phosphate ; Sodium Chloride ; Edetate Disodium ; Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % ( Preservative ) ; Hydrochloric Acid / Sodium Hydroxide ( adjust pH ) ; and Water for Injection .
It has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Olopatadine is a mast cell stabilizer and a histamine H1 antagonist .
Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic bioavailability data upon topical ocular administration of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % solution are not available .
Following topical ocular administration of olopatadine 0 . 15 % ophthalmic solution in man , olopatadine was shown to have a low systemic exposure .
Two studies in normal volunteers ( totaling 24 subjects ) dosed bilaterally with olopatadine 0 . 15 % ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally below the quantitation limit of the assay ( < 0 . 5 ng / mL ) .
Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged from 0 . 5 to 1 . 3 ng / mL .
The elimination half - life in plasma following oral dosing was 8 to 12 hours , and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion .
Approximately 60 to 70 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as parent drug .
Two metabolites , the mono - desmethyl and the N - oxide , were detected at low concentrations in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Olopatadine administered orally was not carcinogenic in mice and rats in doses up to 500 mg / kg / day and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Based on a 40 μL drop size and a 50 kg person , these doses were approximately 150 , 000 and 50 , 000 times higher than the maximum recommended ocular human dose ( MROHD ) .
No mutagenic potential was observed when olopatadine was tested in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test , an in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration assay or an in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Olopatadine administered to male and female rats at oral doses of approximately 100 , 000 times MROHD level resulted in a slight decrease in the fertility index and reduced implantation rate ; no effects on reproductive function were observed at doses of approximately 15 , 000 times the MROHD level .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Results from clinical studies of up to 12 weeks duration demonstrate that Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % when dosed once a day is effective in the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % is supplied in a 10 mL white , low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle with a dropper tip , and a white polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC 17478 - 305 - 12 2 . 5 mL in 10 mL bottle STORAGE : Store at 4 ° to 25 ° C ( 39 ° to 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only For topical ophthalmic administration only .
17 . 2 Sterility of Dropper Tip Patients should be advised to not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
17 . 3 Concomitant Use of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eyes are red .
Patients should be advised that Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Patients should also be advised to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % .
The preservative in Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % benzalkonium chloride may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted following administration of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 2 % .
Rx only AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 OLP00N Rev . 12 / 17 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 305 - 12 Olopatadine HCl Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 2 % ( Once a day ) FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY Rx only 2 . 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 17478 - 305 - 12 Olopatadine HCl Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 2 % ( Once a day ) FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY 2 . 5 mL Rx only Akorn Logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
