Active Ingredients Glycerin 5 . 50 % Purpose Wrinkle , Whitening Use Golden Tea Fermented Snail Ampoule Emulsion improves skin elasticity , tone , and texture .
Contains 45 % Golden Tea Fermented Snail Secretion Filtrate The ampoule emulsion makes the skin healthy and moisturized by improving the elasticity , tone , and texture .
It also strengthens the moisture barrier of rough and damaged skin with the ingredient of Golden Snail Secretion Filtrate fermented through the Gold Aging Process .
Dosage Take an adequate amount of the product , gently apply to a face and neck area .
Caution For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Discontinue use if signs of imitation and / or rash appear .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Discontinue use if signs of imitation and / or rash appear .
Directions Take an adequate amount of the product , gently apply to a face and neck area .
Inactive Ingredients Snail Secretion Filtrate , Butylene Glycol , Water , Cetyl Ethylhexanoate , PEG / PPG - 17 / 6 Copolymer , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Niacinamide , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Polysorbate 60 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil , Bis - PEG - 18 Methyl Ether Dimethyl Silane , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Sorbitan Stearate , Dimethicone , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Beeswax , Polyacrylate - 13 , Tromethamine , Phenoxyethanol , Chlorphenesin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Polyisobutene , Ethylhexylglycerin , Caprylyl Glycol , Xanthan Gum , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Water , Citrus Medica Limonum ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Adenosine , Imperata Cylindrica Root Extract , Glyceryl Polyacrylate , Sorbitan Isostearate , Polysorbate 20 , Citrus Aurantium Bergamia ( Bergamot ) Fruit Oil , Disodium EDTA , Opuntia Ficus - Indica Extract , Coptis Japonica Root Extract , Propanediol , Citrus aurantium dulcis ( orange ) peel oil , Citrus Aurantifolia ( Lime ) Oil , PEG - 8 , Pinus Sylvestris Leaf Oil , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Centella Asiatica Extract , Carbomer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Carica papaya ( papaya ) fruit Extract , Beta - Glucan , Potassium sorbate , Sodium Benzoate , Citric Acid Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
