Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Naproxen sodium 220 mg ( Naproxen 200 mg ) ( NSAID ) * * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pain due to : • • backache • • muscular aches • • minor pain of arthritis • • menstrual cramps • • headache • • toothache • • the common cold temporarily reduces fever Warnings Allergy alert : Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • • hives • • facial swelling • • asthma ( wheezing ) • • shock • • skin reddening • • rash • • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you : • • are age 60 or older • • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product .
• • take more or for a longer time than directed .
Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Do not use • • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • • you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn • • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • • you are taking a diuretic • • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if • • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • • taking any other drug When using this product • • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask doctor if • • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • • feel faint • • vomit blood • • have bloody or black stools • • have a stomach pain that dose not get better • • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke  leg swelling  chest pain  slurred speech  trouble breathing  weakness in one part or side of body • • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • • you have difficulty swallowing • • it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat • • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • • do not take more than directed • • the smallest effective dose should be used • • drink a full glass of water with each dose • • adults and children 12 years and older • • take 1 tablet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • • for the first dose you may take 2 tablets within the first hour • • do not exceed 2 tablets in any 8 to 12 hour period • • do not exceed 3 tablets in a 24 hour period • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Storage • • Store at 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) .
Avoid high humidity and excessive heat above 400 C ( 1040 F ) Other information • • each tablet contains : sodium 20 mg Inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , povidone , silicon dioxide , talc , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 540 - 3765 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
