DESCRIPTION Each gram of Enzoclear ™ Foam contains 9 . 8 % benzoyl peroxide in an aqueous based emollient foam vehicle containing BHT , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , cetostearyl alcohol , citric acid , dimethicone , disodium EDTA , emulsifying wax , glycerin , methylparaben , polyester - 5 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , steareth - 10 .
Also contains : Propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) .
Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent that possesses antibacterial properties and is classified as a keratolytic .
Benzoyl peroxide ( C14H10O4 ) is represented by the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact method of action of benzoyl peroxide in acne vulgaris is not known .
Benzoyl peroxide is an antibacterial agent with demonstrated activity against Propionibacterium acnes .
This action , combined with the mild keratolytic effect of benzoyl peroxide , is believed to be responsible for its usefulness in acne .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is metabolized to benzoic acid and excreted as benzoate in the urine .
INDICATIONS & USUAGE Enzoclear ™ Foam is indicated for use in the topical treatment of mild to moderate acnes vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Enzoclear ™ Foam should not be used in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to benzoyl peroxide or to any of the other ingredients in the product .
Discontinue use if hypersensitivity is observed .
WARNINGS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
When using this product , skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if : • you leave Enzoclear ™ Foam on your skin longer than directed • you use another topical acne medication at the same time If irritation occurs : • use Enzoclear ™ Foam less frequently • use one topical acne medication at a time • stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Do not use if you : • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : If severe irritation develops , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Information for patients : This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
Avoid contact with the eyes , eyelids , lips , and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive redness or irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Based upon all available evidence , benzoyl peroxide is not considered to be a carcinogen .
However , data from a study using mice known to be highly susceptible to cancer suggest that benzoyl peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of the findings is not known .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
It is also not known whether benzoyl peroxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzoyl peroxide should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in the human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzoyl peroxide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic contact dermatitis and dryness have been reported with topical benzoyl peroxide therapy .
OVERDOSAGE If excessive scaling , erythema or edema occurs , the use of this preparation should be discontinued .
To hasten resolution of the adverse effects , cool compresses may be used .
After symptoms and signs subside , a reduced dosage schedule may be cautiously tried if the reaction is judged to be due to excessive use and not allergenicity .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Avoid contact with hair , fabrics or carpeting as benzoyl peroxide may cause bleaching or discoloration Prime Can Before Initial Use : Shake can well .
Firmly strike bottom of can onto palm of hand 3 times .
Hold can upright and direct initial spray to a non - stick surface .
Until foam dispenses , DO NOT spray directly on the skin as the initial spray expel cold liquid propellant .
Press down on actuator for 1 - 3 seconds until foam begins to dispense .
If foam does not dispense within 3 seconds , repeat priming process .
During Use : WASH - OFF APPLICATION : Shake can well .
Holding can upright , dispense Enzoclear ™ Foam into palm of hand .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Rinse off after 2 minutes .
Wipe off any excess foam from actuator after use .
LEAVE - ON APPLICATION : Shake can well .
Holding can upright , dispense Enzoclear ™ Foam into palm of hand and apply to the affected area once daily , or as directed by a physician .
For facial acne , use a dollop the size of a marble .
For acne on either the back or chest , use a dollop the size of a whole walnut .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Wipe off any excess foam from actuator after use .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or once every other day .
Wash hands with soap and water after use .
If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
HOW SUPPLIED Enzoclear ™ Foam is supplied in 100 g ( NDC 73159 - 001 - 01 ) aluminum cans .
Will not dispense entire contents .
Container is overfilled to guarantee at least the listed amount .
Store at room temperature : 59 ° - 77 ° F ( 15 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Store upright .
Manufactured for : Lacer Pharma , LLC 1636 Popps Ferry Road , Suite 219 Biloxi , MS 39532 Phone : ( 228 ) 872 - 9607 PATIENT INFORMATION IMPORTANT : For use on skin only ( topical use ) .
When using this product , avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
When using this product , skin irritation may occur .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
Read the Patient Information that comes with Enzoclear ™ Foam before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of speaking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Enzoclear ™ Foam is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat mild to moderate acne vulgaris .
Who should not use Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Do not use Enzoclear ™ Foam if you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
What should I tell my doctor before using Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Before using Enzoclear ™ Foam , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • Have any allergies • Are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Enzoclear ™ Foam will harm your unborn baby .
• Are breastfeeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if Enzoclear ™ Foam passes into your breast milk .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines and skin products you use .
Other skin and topical acne products may increase the irritation of your skin when used with Enzoclear ™ Foam .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
Instructions for applying Enzoclear ™ Foam CAUTION : Enzoclear ™ Foam may bleach hair or colored fabric • Prime Can Before Initial Use : Shake can well .
Firmly strike bottom of can onto palm 3 times .
Hold can upright and direct initial spray to a non - skin surface .
Until foam dispenses , DO NOT spray directly on the skin as the initial spray may expel cold liquid propellant .
Press down on actuator for 1 - 3 seconds until foam begins to dispense .
• During Use : WASH - OFF APPLICATION : Shake can well .
Holding can upright , dispense Enzoclear ™ Foam into palm of hand .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Rinse off after 2 minutes .
Wipe off any excess foam from actuator after use .
LEAVE - ON APPLICATION : Shake can well .
Holding can upright , dispense Enzoclear ™ Foam into palm of hand and apply to the affected area once daily , or as directed by a physician .
For facial acne , use a dollop the size of a marble .
For acne on either the back or chest , use a dollop the size of a whole walnut .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Wipe off any excess foam from actuator after use .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Wash hands with soap and water after use .
If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity occurs , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
• Will not dispense entire contents .
Container is overfilled to guarantee dispensing at least the listed amount .
What should I avoid while using Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
• Limit your time in sunlight .
Avoid using tanning beds or sun lamps .
If you have to be in sunlight , wear a wide - brimmed hat or other protective clothing , and a sunscreen with SPF 15 rating or higher .
Your doctor can give you more information about why this is important .
• Do not wash the affected area more than 2 to 3 times a day .
Washing or scrubbing your skin too often may make your acne worse .
What are the possible side effects with Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Side effects with Enzoclear ™ Foam include : • Skin irritation .
Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you leave Enzoclear ™ Foam on your skin longer than directed or use another topical acne medication at the same time .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
This is not the only possible side effect with Enzoclear ™ Foam .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Lacer Pharma , LLC at 1 - 833 - 990 - 0046 .
How should I store Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Store at room temperature 59 ° - 77 ° F ( 15 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Do not expose to temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Store upright .
Keep Enzoclear ™ Foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about Enzoclear ™ Foam Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use Enzoclear ™ Foam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Enzoclear ™ Foam to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Enzoclear ™ Foam .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Enzoclear ™ Foam that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about Enzoclear ™ Foam , call 1 - 833 - 990 - 0046 .
What are the ingredients in Enzoclear ™ Foam ?
Active Ingredient : benzoyl peroxide 9 . 8 % Inactive Ingredient : BHT , C12 - 15 benzoate , cetostearyl alcohol , citric acid , dimethicone , disodium EDTA , emulsifying wax , glycerin , methylparaben , polyester - 5 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , steareth - 10 .
Also contains : Propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
