1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GLYRX ® - PF is indicated : in anesthesia ( all ages ) • • for reduction of salivary , tracheobronchial , and pharyngeal secretions , reduction of volume and acidity of gastric secretions , and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation , • • intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug - induced or vagal reflex - associated arrhythmias , and • • for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine given to reverse the neuromuscular blockade due to non - depolarizing agents .
in peptic ulcer ( adults ) • • as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated .
GLYRX ® - PF is an anticholinergic indicated : in anesthesia ( adult and pediatric patients ) • • for reduction of airway or gastric secretions , and volume and acidity of gastric secretions , and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation , • • intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug - induced or vagal reflex - associated arrhythmias , and • • for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents .
( 1 ) in peptic ulcer ( adults ) • • as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or oral medication is not tolerated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GLYRX ® - PF may be administered intramuscularly ( IM ) , or intravenously ( IV ) , with or without dilution , in the following indications .
( 2 . 1 ) : Adults ( 2 . 2 ) Preanesthetic Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IM , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia Intraoperative Medication : single doses of 0 . 1 mg IV and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade : 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer : 0 . 1 mg IV or IM at 4 - hour intervals , 3 or 4 times daily Pediatric patients ( 2 . 3 ) Preanesthetic Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IM , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia .
Patients under 2 years of age may require up to 0 . 009 mg / kg Intraoperative Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IV , not to exceed 0 . 1 mg in a single dose and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade : 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer : GLYRX ® - PF is not indicated for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients 2 . 1 General Dosage and Administration Information • • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
• • GLYRX ® - PF may be administered intramuscularly or intravenously , with or without dilution .
2 . 2 Dosing in Adults Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of GLYRX ® - PF is 0 . 004 mg / kg by intramuscular injection , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Intraoperative Medication GLYRX ® - PF may be used during surgery to counteract drug - induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias ( e . g . , bradycardia ) .
It should be administered intravenously as single doses of 0 . 1 mg and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
Attempt to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and perform the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended dose of GLYRX ® - PF is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine .
In order to minimize cardiac side effects , the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe .
Peptic Ulcer The usual recommended dose of GLYRX ® - PF is 0 . 1 mg administered at 4 - hour intervals , 3 or 4 times daily , intravenously or intramuscularly .
Where more profound effect is required , 0 . 2 mg may be given .
Some patients may need only a single dose .
Frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily .
2 . 3 Dosing in Pediatric Patients Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of GLYRX ® - PF in pediatric patients is 0 . 004 mg / kg intramuscularly , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Patients under 2 years of age , may require up to 0 . 009 mg / kg .
Intraoperative Medication Because of the long duration of action of GLYRX ® - PF if used as preanesthetic medication , additional GLYRX ® - PF for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed ; in the event it is required , the recommended pediatric dose is 0 . 004 mg / kg intravenously , not to exceed 0 . 1 mg in a single dose , which may be repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
Attempt to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and perform the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended pediatric dose of GLYRX ® - PF is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine .
In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects , the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe .
Peptic Ulcer GLYRX ® - PF is not indicated for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients .
2 . 4 Preparation and Handling Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5 % and 10 % in water , or saline , dextrose 5 % in sodium chloride 0 . 45 % , sodium chloride 0 . 9 % , and Ringer ’ s Injection .
Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer ’ s solution .
Admixture Compatibilities Physical Compatibility This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co - administration of glycopyrrolate with these drugs .
GLYRX ® - PF is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms : atropine sulfate , USP ; physostigmine salicylate ; diphenhydramine HCl ; codeine phosphate , USP ; benz - quinamide HCl ; hydromorphone HCl , USP ; droperidol ; levorphanol tartrate ; lidocaine , USP ; meperidine HCl , USP ; pyridostigmine bromide ; morphine sulfate , USP ; nalbuphine HCl ; oxymorphone HCl ; procaine HCl , USP ; promethazine HCl , USP ; neostigmine methylsulfate , USP ; scopolamine HBr , USP ; butorphanol tartrate ; fentanyl citrate ; trimethobenzamide HCl ; and hydroxyzine HCl .
GLYRX ® - PF may be administered via the tubing of a running infusion of normal saline .
Admixture Incompatibilities Physical Incompatibility Because the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6 . 0 do not combine GLYRX ® - PF in the same syringe with methohexital Na , chloramphenicol Na succinate , dimenhydrinate , pentobarbital Na , thiopental Na , secobarbital Na , sodium bicarbonate , diazepam , dexamethasone Na phosphate , or pentazocine lactate .
These mixtures will result in a pH higher than 6 . 0 and may result in gas production or precipitation .
2 . 5 Instructions for Use of Prefilled Syringe 1 .
Perform visual inspection on the syringe by verifying : • • Absence of syringe damage • • Absence of external particles • • Absence of internal particles • • Proper drug color • • Drug name • • Drug strength • • Fill volume • • Route of administration • • Expiration date to be sure the drug has not expired 2 .
Do not remove the tamper evident seal .
Push plunger rod slightly in to break the stopper lose while tip cap is still on 3 .
Remove tip cap and tamper evident seal by twisting off .
( See Figure 1 ) : Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Discard the tip cap .
5 .
Expel air bubble .
6 .
Adjust dose into sterile material ( if applicable ) .
7 .
Connect the syringe to an appropriate intravenous connection .
• • Before injection , ensure that the syringe is securely attached to the needle or needleless luer access device ( NLAD ) .
8 .
Depress plunger rod to deliver medication .
Ensure that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration .
9 .
Remove syringe from NLAD ( if applicable ) and discard into appropriate receptacle .
• • To prevent needle stick injuries , do not recap needle when needle is connected to syringe .
NOTES : All steps must be done sequentially • • Do not re - sterilize syringe • • Do not use this product on a sterile field • • Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time • • This product is for single dose only [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GLYRX ® - PF ( glycopyrrolate injection ) is a clear , colorless , solution for injection available as 0 . 2 mg / mL and 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose vials and as a 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL and 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose prefilled syringe .
Injection : 0 . 2 mg / mL and 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose vial and 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL and 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose prefilled syringe .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS GLYRX ® - PF is contraindicated in : • • patients with known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients .
• • peptic ulcer patients with the following concurrent conditions : glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
• • Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients .
( 4 ) • • Peptic ulcer patients with glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly , or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon ; complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Precipitation of Acute Glaucoma : Glycopyrrolate may cause mydriasis and increase intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma .
Advise patients with glaucoma to promptly seek medical care if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Drowsiness or Blurred Vision : May cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Advise patients not to drive or perform hazardous work until resolved .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Heat Prostration : Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperatures after receiving GLYRX ® - PF .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Intestinal Obstruction : Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction .
Avoid use in patients with diarrhea and ileostomy or colostomy .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Tachycardia : Increase in heart rate may occur .
Use with caution in patients with coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , or hyperthyroidism .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Precipitation of Acute Glaucoma Glycopyrrolate may cause mydriasis and increase intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma .
Advise patients with glaucoma to promptly seek medical care in the event that they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma ( pain and reddening of the eyes , accompanied by dilated pupils ) .
5 . 2 Drowsiness or Blurred Vision GLYRX ® - PF may cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Warn patients not to participate in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work , until these issues resolve .
5 . 3 Heat Prostration In the presence of fever , high environmental temperature , and / or during physical exercise , heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents including GLYRX ® - PF ( due to decreased sweating ) , particularly in children and the elderly .
Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperature after receiving GLYRX ® - PF .
5 . 4 Intestinal Obstruction Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with GLYRX ® - PF is inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Avoid use in patients with these conditions .
5 . 5 Tachycardia Investigate any tachycardia before giving GLYRX ® - PF because an increase in the heart rate may occur .
Use with caution in patients with coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , or hyperthyroidism .
5 . 6 Risk of Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Renal elimination of glycopyrrolate may be severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary in this population [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Autonomic Neuropathy , Hepatic Disease , Ulcerative Colitis , Prostatic Hypertrophy , or Hiatal Hernia Use GLYRX ® - PF with caution in the elderly and in all patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic disease , ulcerative colitis , prostatic hypertrophy , or hiatal hernia , because anticholinergic drugs may aggravate these conditions .
Consider dose reduction and closely monitor the elderly and patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic disease , ulcerative colitis , prostatic hypertrophy , or hiatal hernia .
5 . 8 Delayed Gastric Emptying / Gastric Stasis The use of anticholinergic drugs , including GLYRX ® - PF , in the treatment of peptic ulcer may produce a delay in gastric emptying / gastric stasis .
Monitor patients for symptoms such as vomiting , dyspepsia , early satiety , abdominal distention , and increased abdominal pain .
Discontinue GLYRX ® - PF treatment if these symptoms develop or worsen on treatment .
5 . 9 Light Sensitivity Patients may experience sensitivity of the eyes to light .
Advise patients to protect their eyes from light after receiving GLYRX ® - PF .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics include xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis ( dilation of the pupil ) ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; decreased sweating ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ; hypersensitivity ; urticaria , pruritus , dry skin , and other dermal manifestations ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement , especially in elderly persons .
The following adverse reactions have been reported from post - marketing experience with glycopyrrolate : malignant hyperthermia ; cardiac arrhythmias ( including bradycardia , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation ) ; cardiac arrest ; hypertension ; hypotension ; seizures ; and respiratory arrest .
Post - marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase .
Injection site reactions including pruritus , edema , erythema , and pain have also been reported .
Most common adverse reactions are related to anticholinergic pharmacology and may include xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis ( dilation of the pupil ) ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; tachycardia ; bradycardia ; palpitation ; and decreased sweating .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC at 1 - 888 - 451 - 4321 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concurrent use of GLYRX ® - PF with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity , such as phenothiazines , antiparkinson drugs , or tricyclic antidepressants , may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects .
Concomitant administration of GLYRX ® - PF and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride - induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time .
Other anticholinergics or drugs with anticholinergic activity : May intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects .
( 7 ) Potassium Chloride in a Wax Matrix : May increase severity of potassium chloride - induced gastrointestinal lesions .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : Infants , patients with Down ’ s Syndrome , and pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage may experience an increased response to anticholinergics , thus increasing the potential for side effects .
Large doses may cause hyperexcitability .
( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy • Risk Summary Limited data available with glycopyrrolate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of birth defects and miscarriage , however , most of the reported exposures occurred after the first trimester .
Most of the available data are based on studies with exposures that occurred at the time of Cesarean - section delivery , and these studies have not identified an adverse effect on maternal outcomes or infant Apgar scores ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies in pregnant rats and rabbits administered glycopyrrolate orally ( rats ) and intramuscularly ( rabbits ) during the period of organogenesis , no teratogenic effects were seen at 640 - times and 10 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 1 mg ( on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 − 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published , randomized , controlled trials over several decades , which compared the use of glycopyrrolate to another antimuscarinic agent in pregnant women during Cesarean section , have not identified adverse maternal or infant outcomes .
In normal doses ( 0 . 004 mg / kg ) , glycopyrrolate does not appear to affect fetal heart rate or fetal heart rate variability to a significant degree .
Concentrations of glycopyrrolate in umbilical venous and arterial blood and in the amniotic fluid are low after intramuscular administration to parturients .
Therefore , glycopyrrolate does not appear to penetrate through the placental barrier in significant amounts .
There are no studies on the safety of glycopyrrolate exposure during the period of organogenesis , and therefore , it is not possible to draw any conclusions on the risk of birth defects following exposure to glycopyrrolate during pregnancy .
In addition , there are no data on the risk of miscarriage following fetal exposure to glycopyrrolate .
Animal Data Reproduction studies with glycopyrrolate were performed in rats at a dietary dose of approximately 65 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 640 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 1 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) and rabbits at intramuscular doses of up to 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 10 times the maximum recommended daily human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
These studies produced no teratogenic effects to the fetus .
A preclinical study on reproductive performance of rats given glycopyrrolate resulted in a decreased rate of conception and survival at weaning .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of glycopyrrolate in either human milk or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
As with other anticholinergics , glycopyrrolate may cause suppression of lactation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breast feeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Glycopyrrolate Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Glycopyrrolate Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established for the management of peptic ulcer .
Dysrhythmias associated with the use of glycopyrrolate intravenously as a premedicant or during anesthesia have been observed in pediatric patients .
Infants , patients with Down ’ s syndrome , and pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage may experience an increased response to anticholinergics , thus increasing the potential for side effects .
A paradoxical reaction characterized by hyperexcitability may occur in pediatric patients receiving large doses of anticholinergics including GLYRX ® - PF .
Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effects of anticholinergics .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical Studies of GLYRX ® - PF did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Renal elimination of glycopyrrolate may be severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects , a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase such as neostigmine methylsulfate ( which does not cross the blood - brain barrier ) may be given intravenously in increments of 0 . 25 mg in adults .
This dosage may be repeated every five to ten minutes until anticholinergic overactivity is reversed or up to a maximum of 2 . 5 mg .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
Indication for repetitive doses of neostigmine should be based on close monitoring of the decrease in heart rate and the return of bowel sounds .
If CNS symptoms ( e . g . , excitement , restlessness , convulsions , psychotic behavior ) occur , physostigmine ( which does cross the blood – brain barrier ) may be used .
Physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg should be slowly administered intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg in adults .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
To combat hypotension , administer IV fluids and / or pressor agents along with supportive care .
Fever should be treated symptomatically .
Following overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
In the event of a curare - like effect on respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
11 DESCRIPTION GLYRX ® - PF is a synthetic anticholinergic agent .
It is intended for intramuscular or intravenous administration .
Each 1 mL of GLYRX ® - PF contains 0 . 2 mg of glycopyrrolate , water for injection , sodium chloride as a tonicity agent , and hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide as pH adjusters .
GLYRX ® - PF is preservative free .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium salt with the following chemical name : ( RS ) - [ 3 - ( SR ) - Hydroxy - 1 , 1 - dimethylpyrrolidinium bromide ] α - cyclopentylmandelate .
The molecular formula is C19H28BrNO3 and the molecular weight is 398 . 34 .
Glycopyrrolate structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glycopyrrolate occurs as a white , odorless , crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and ether .
It is completely ionized at physiological pH values .
GLYRX ® - PF is a clear , colorless , sterile liquid with a pH of 2 . 0 – 3 . 0 .
The partition coefficient of Glycopyrrolate in n - octanol / water system is 0 . 304 ( log10 P = - 1 . 52 ) at ambient room temperature ( 24 ° C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are highly non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
For this reason , the occurrence of CNS - related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
With intravenous injection , the onset of action is generally evident within one minute .
Following intramuscular administration , the onset of action is noted in 15 to 30 minutes , with peak effects occurring within approximately 30 to 45 minutes .
The vagal blocking effects persist for 2 to 3 hours and the antisialagogue effects persist up to 7 hours , periods longer than for atropine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The following pharmacokinetic information and conclusions were obtained from published studies that used nonspecific assay methods .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of glycopyrrolate was estimated to be 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 L / kg .
Elimination Metabolism The in vivo metabolism of glycopyrrolate in humans has not been studied .
Excretion The mean clearance and mean t1 / 2 values were reported to be 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 L / kg / hr and 0 . 83 ± 0 . 27 hr , respectively post IV administration .
After IV administration of a 0 . 2 mg radiolabeled glycopyrrolate , 85 % of dose recovered was recovered in urine 48 hours post dose and some of the radioactivity was also recovered in bile .
After IM administration of glycopyrrolate to adults , the mean t1 / 2 value is reported to be between 0 . 55 to 1 . 25 hrs .
Over 80 % of IM dose administered was recovered in urine and the bile as unchanged drug and half the IM dose is excreted within 3 hrs .
The following table summarizes the mean and standard deviation of pharmacokinetic parameters from a study .
Group t1 / 2 Vss CL Tmax Cmax AUC ( hr ) ( L / kg ) ( L / kg / hr ) ( min ) ( µg / L ) ( µg / L • hr ) ( 6 µg / kg IV ) 0 . 83 ± 0 . 27 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 – – 8 . 64 ± 1 . 49 [ 1 ] ( 8 µg / kg IM ) – – – 27 . 48 ± 6 . 12 3 . 47 ± 1 . 48 6 . 64 ± 2 . 33 null [ 1 ] 0 - 8 hr Specific Populations Pediatric Patients : Following IV administration ( 5 μg / kg glycopyrrolate ) to infants and children , the mean t1 / 2 values were reported to be between 21 . 6 and 130 . 0 minutes and between 19 . 2 and 99 . 2 minutes , respectively .
Patients with Renal Impairment : In one study Glycopyrrolate was administered IV in uremic patients undergoing renal transplantation .
The mean elimination half - life was significantly longer ( 46 . 8 minutes ) than in healthy patients ( 18 . 6 minutes ) .
The mean area - under - the - concentration - time curve ( 10 . 6 hr - μg / L ) , mean plasma clearance ( 0 . 43 L / hr / kg ) , and mean 3 - hour urine excretion ( 0 . 7 % ) for Glycopyrrolate were also significantly different than those of controls ( 3 . 73 hr - μg / L , 1 . 14 L / hr / kg , and 50 % , respectively ) .
These results suggest that the elimination of glycopyrrolate is severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Mutagenesis Studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential of glycopyrrolate have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility In reproduction studies in rats , dietary administration of glycopyrrolate resulted in diminished rates of conception in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
16 HOW SUPPLIED , STORAGE AND HANDLING GLYRX ® - PF ( glycopyrrolate injection ) is available in : 0 . 2 mg / mL single - dose vials packaged in 25 s ( NDC 51754 - 6000 - 4 ) 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose vials packaged in 25 s ( NDC 51754 - 6001 - 4 ) 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose prefilled disposable syringes packaged in 10 s ( NDC 51754 - 6013 - 3 ) 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose prefilled disposable syringes packaged in 10 s ( NDC 51754 - 6015 - 3 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Drowsiness or Blurred Vision : Inform patients that GLYRX ® - PF may cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Warn patients not to operate a motor vehicle or other machinery or perform hazardous work until these issues resolve [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Heat Prostration : Inform patients that in the presence of fever , high environmental temperature and / or during physical exercise , heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents , including GLYRX ® - PF ( due to decreased sweating ) , particularly in children and the elderly .
Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperature after receiving GLYRX ® - PF [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Light Sensitivity : Advise patients that glycopyrrolate injection may cause sensitivity of the eyes to light and to protect their eyes from light after receiving GLYRX ® - PF [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Drug Interactions : Inform patients that GLYRX ® - PF may interact with other drugs .
Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider the use of any other medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Manufactured and Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mL Syringe Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 6013 - 1 Rx only GLYRX ® - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) 3 mL Single Dose prefilled syringe .
Discard Unused Portion .
For IM or IV Use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mL Syringe Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 6013 - 3 Rx only GLYRX ® - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 10 x 3 mL Single Dose Prefilled Syringes Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Syringe Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 6015 - 1 Rx Only GLYRX ® - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) 5 mL Single Dose prefilled syringe .
Discard Unused Portion .
For IM or IV Use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Syringe Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 6015 - 3 Rx Only GLYRX ® - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 10 x 5 mL Single Dose Prefilled Syringes Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 6000 - 1 GLYRX - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 2 mg / mL For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 1 mL Single Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 6000 - 4 GLYRX - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 2 mg / mL For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 25 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials Discard Unused Portion Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 6001 - 1 GLYRX - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 2 mL Single Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 6001 - 4 GLYRX - PF Glycopyrrolate Injection 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 25 x 2 mL Single Dose Vials Discard Unused Portion Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ]
