• Dosage and Administration , Recommended Dosage for Wilms Tumor ( 2 . 1 ) 8 / 2018 • Dosage and Administration , Recommended Dosage for Ewing Sarcoma ( 2 . 3 ) 8 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE COSMEGEN is an actinomycin indicated for the treatment of : • adult and pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 1 ) • adult and pediatric patients with rhabdomyosarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 2 ) • adult and pediatric patients with Ewing sarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 3 ) • adult and pediatric patients with metastatic , nonseminomatous testicular cancer , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 4 ) • post - menarchal patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia , as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 5 ) • adult patients with locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies , as a component of palliative or adjunctive regional perfusion .
( 1 . 6 ) 1 . 1 Wilms Tumor COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 2 Rhabdomyosarcoma COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with rhabdomyosarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 3 Ewing Sarcoma COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with Ewing sarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 4 Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with metastatic , nonseminomatous testicular cancer , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 5 Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of post - menarchal patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia , as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 6 Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies COSMEGEN is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies , as a component of palliative or adjunctive regional perfusion .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Wilms Tumor : The recommended dose is 45 mcg / kg intravenously once every 3 to 6 weeks for up to 26 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 1 ) • Rhabdomyosarcoma : The recommended dose is 15 mcg / kg intravenously once daily for 5 days every 3 to 9 weeks for up to 112 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 2 ) • Ewing Sarcoma : The recommended dose is 1250 mcg / m 2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 51 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 3 ) • Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer : The recommended dose is 1000 mcg / m 2 intravenously every 3 weeks , as part of cisplatin - based , multi - drug chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 4 ) • Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia : • Non - metastatic and Low - risk Metastatic Disease : The recommended dose is 12 mcg / kg intravenously daily for 5 days , as a single agent .
( 2 . 5 ) • High - risk Metastatic Disease : The recommended dose is 500 mcg intravenously on Days 1 and 2 every 2 weeks for up to 8 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 5 ) • Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies : • Lower Extremity or Pelvis : The recommend dose is 50 mcg / kg once with melphalan .
( 2 . 6 ) • Upper Extremity : The recommended dose is 35 mcg / kg once with melphalan .
( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage for Wilms Tumor The recommended dose of COSMEGEN , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 45 mcg / kg intravenously once every 3 to 6 weeks for up to 26 weeks .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Rhabdomyosarcoma The recommended dose of COSMEGEN , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 15 mcg / kg intravenously once daily for 5 days every 3 to 9 weeks for up to 112 weeks .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Ewing Sarcoma The recommended dose of COSMEGEN , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 1250 mcg / m 2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 51 weeks .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage for Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer The recommended dose of COSEMGEN , as part of a cisplatin - based , multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 1000 mcg / m 2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 12 weeks .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage for Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia The recommended dose of COSEMEGEN for nonmetastatic and low - risk metastatic disease is 12 mcg / kg intravenously daily for five days as a single agent .
The recommended dose of COSEMEGEN , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , for high - risk metastatic disease is 500 mcg intravenously on Days 1 and 2 every 2 weeks for up to 8 weeks .
2 . 6 Recommended Dosage for Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies The recommended dose of COSMEGEN , in combination with melphalan , is 50 mcg / kg once for lower extremity or pelvis .
The recommended dose of COSMEGEN , in combination with melphalan , is 35 mcg / kg once for upper extremity .
Calculate the dose for obese or edematous patients based on ideal body weight .
2 . 7 Preparation and Administration • COSMEGEN is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 • Visually inspect the vials for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
Preparation • Reconstitute each vial by adding 1 . 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection without preservative using aseptic techniques .
• The reconstituted product should be a clear , gold - colored solution at a concentration of 500 mcg / mL .
• Further dilute the reconstituted product with 5 % Dextrose Injection or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection to yield concentrations greater than 10 mcg / mL .
• Store at room temperature for no more than 4 hours from reconstitution to completion of injection or infusion .
Discard after 4 hours .
• COSMEGEN does not contain a preservative .
Discard any unused portions .
Administration • Administer the diluted reconstituted product intravenously over 10 to 15 minutes .
• Do not use in - line filters with a cellulose ester membrane .
Management of Extravasation • Discontinue COSMEGEN for burning or stinging sensation or other evidence indicating perivenous infiltration or extravasation .
• Manage confirmed or suspected extravasation as follows : • Terminate the injection or infusion immediately and restart in another vein .
• Intermittent application of ice to the site for 15 minutes 4 times daily for 3 days [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 500 mcg as a sterile , amorphous yellow to orange , lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
For injection : 500 mcg as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia : Increased risk of secondary malignancies following treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Veno - occlusive Disease : Can cause severe or fatal VOD .
Monitor for elevations in AST , ALT , total bilirubin , hepatomegaly , weight gain , or ascites .
Consider delaying next dose .
( 5 . 2 ) • Extravasation : Immediately interrupt the injection or infusion and apply ice .
( 2 . 7 , 5 . 3 ) • Myelosuppression : Monitor blood cell counts before each cycle .
Delay next dose if severe myelosuppression has not improved .
( 5 . 4 ) • Immunizations : Vaccination with live viral vaccines is not recommended before or during treatment .
( 5 . 5 ) • Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions : Discontinue treatment ( 5 . 6 ) • Renal Toxicity : Monitor creatinine and electrolytes frequently .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor transaminases , alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin prior to and during treatment .
( 5 . 8 ) • Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall : Reduce dose by 50 % during concomitant radiation .
Use caution when administering within two months of radiation .
( 5 . 9 ) • Embryo - fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 10 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia The risk of developing secondary malignancies , including leukemia , is increased following treatment with COSMEGEN .
5 . 2 Veno - occlusive Disease Severe and fatal hepatic veno - occlusive disease ( VOD ) can occur with COSMEGEN .
Risk factors for the development of VOD include age younger than 4 years or concomitant radiotherapy .
After treatment with COSMEGEN , monitor frequently for signs and symptoms of VOD ; these include elevations in AST , ALT , total bilirubin , hepatomegaly , weight gain , or ascites .
If patients develop VOD , considering delaying next dose of COSMEGEN .
Resume , reduce dose or permanently discontinue based on severity of reaction and disease being treated .
5 . 3 Extravasation Extravasation of COSMEGEN can result in severe local tissue injury manifesting as blistering , ulcerations and persistent pain requiring wide excision surgery followed by split - thickness skin grafting .
If any signs or symptoms of extravasation occur , immediately interrupt the injection or infusion .
Apply ice to the site intermittently for 15 minutes , 4 times a day for 3 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Observe closely and consult plastic surgery if necessary based on severity of reaction .
5 . 4 Myelosuppression Severe and fatal myelosuppression , which may include neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia , can occur with COSMEGEN .
The nadir in neutrophil counts generally occurs 14 to 21 days after administration .
Obtain complete blood counts prior to each treatment cycle .
Delay next dose of COSMEGEN if severe myelosuppression has not improved .
Consider dose reduction for patients with prolonged myelosuppression based on severity of reaction and disease being treated .
5 . 5 Immunizations The safety with live viral vaccines following COSMEGEN has not been studied and vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended before or during treatment .
5 . 6 Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Severe mucocutaneous reactions , such as Steven - Johnson syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis ( TEN ) , can occur with COSMEGEN .
Permanently discontinue COSMEGEN in patients who experience a severe mucocutaneous reaction .
5 . 7 Renal Toxicity Abnormalities of renal function can occur with COSMEGEN .
Monitor creatinine and electrolytes frequently during COSMEGEN therapy .
5 . 8 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity can occur with COSMEGEN .
Monitor AST , ALT , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin prior to and during COSMEGEN therapy .
5 . 9 Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall COSMEGEN can increase radiation - induced gastrointestinal toxicity , myelosuppression , or erythema and vesiculation of the skin or buccal and pharyngeal mucosa .
Reduce the dose of COSMEGEN by 50 % during concomitant radiation .
Radiation recall , affecting previously treated radiation fields , can occur in patients who receive COSMEGEN after prior radiation therapy .
Although the risk can occur with distant radiation exposure , the risk appears highest when COSMEGEN is administered within two months of prior radiation .
5 . 10 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , COSMEGEN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of dactinomycin to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis was teratogenic , resulting in malformations at doses lower than the recommended human dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for at least 6 months after the final dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Secondary Malignancy and Leukemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Veno - occlusive Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Extravasation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Immunizations [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Renal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Common adverse reactions are : infection , alopecia , rash , dysphagia , fatigue , fever , nausea , vomiting , anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , mucositis , and hepatotoxicity .
The following adverse reactions have been identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections : infections including sepsis with fatal outcome Hematologic : anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , pancytopenia , reticulocytopenia , neutropenia , febrile neutropenia , disseminated intravascular coagulation Immune system : hypersensitivity Metabolism and nutrition : anorexia , hypocalcemia , tumor lysis syndrome Nervous system : peripheral neuropathy Ocular : optic neuropathy Vascular : thrombophlebitis , hemorrhage Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal : pneumonitis , pneumothorax Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , diarrhea , constipation , gastrointestinal ulceration , cheilitis , dysphagia , esophagitis , ulcerative stomatitis , ascites , proctitis , mucositis Hepatobiliary : liver function test abnormalities , hepatomegaly , hepatitis , hepatic failure with reports of death , hepatic veno - occlusive disease Dermatologic : alopecia , rash , dermatitis , acne , erythema multiforme , Stevens Johnson Syndrome , radiation recall , toxic epidermal necrolysis Musculoskeletal and connective tissue : myalgia , growth retardation Renal and urinary : renal impairment , renal failure General : fatigue , fever , malaise Common adverse reactions are : infection , alopecia , rash , dysphagia , fatigue , fever , nausea , vomiting , anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , mucositis , and hepatotoxicity ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Recordati Rare Diseases at 1 - 800 - 575 - 8374 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , COSMEGEN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of dactinomycin to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis was teratogenic , resulting in malformations at doses lower than the recommended human dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus [ see Use in Special Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Dactinomycin was teratogenic in animals .
Administration of dactinomycin to pregnant rats , rabbits , and hamsters during the period of organogenesis , increased the incidence of fetal malformations and caused embryotoxicity at doses ( based on body surface area ) as low as 0 . 2 times the clinical dose of 1250 mcg / m 2 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dactinomycin or its metabolites in human milk or their effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from COSMEGEN , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with COSMEGEN and , based on limited published data regarding the dactinomycin half - life , for 14 days after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating COSMEGEN [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception COSMEGEN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for at least 6 months after the final dose .
Males Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of dactinomycin have been established in pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , rhabdomyosarcoma , Ewing sarcoma , and metastatic nonseminomatous testicular cancer .
The safety and effectiveness of dactinomycin have been established in post - menarchal pediatric patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia .
The safety and effectiveness of COSMEGEN have not been established in pediatric patients undergoing regional perfusion for locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of COSMEGEN did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Dactinomycin is an actinomycin .
Dactinomycin is produced by Streptomyces parvullus .
The chemical name is 8 - amino - N - ( 2 - amino - 4 , 6 - dimethyl - 3 - oxo - phenoxazin - 1 - yl ) carbonyl - N ' - [ 8 - amino - 4 , 6 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 9 - [ [ 3 , 6 , 10 - trimethyl - 7 , 14 - bis ( 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 , 5 , 8 , 12 , 15 - pentaoxo - 9 - oxa - 3 , 6 , 13 , 16 - tetrazabicyclo [ 14 . 3 . 0 ] nonadec - 11 - yl ] carbamoyl ] phenoxazin - 1 - yl ] carbonyl - 4 , 6 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - N , N ' - bis [ 3 , 6 , 10 - trimethyl - 7 , 14 - bis ( 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 , 5 , 8 , 12 , 15 - pentaoxo - 9 - oxa - 3 , 6 , 13 , 16 tetrazabicyclo [ 14 . 3 . 0 ] nonadec - 11 - yl ] - 1 , 9 - bis [ [ 3 , 6 , 10 - trimethyl - 7 , 14 - bis ( 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 , 5 , 8 , 12 , 15 - pentaoxo - 9 - oxa - 3 , 6 , 13 , 16 - tetrazabicyclo [ 14 . 3 . 0 ] nonadec - 11 - yl ] carbamoyl ] phenoxazine - 1 , 9 - dicarboxamide .
The molecular formula is C 62 H 86 N 12 O 16 and the molecular weight is 1255 . 42 daltons .
The structural formula of dactinomycin is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] COSMEGEN ( dactinomycin for injection ) for intravenous use is a sterile , amorphous yellow to orange , lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
Each vial contains 500 mcg of dactinomycin and 20 mg of mannitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COSMEGEN is a cytotoxic actinomycin that binds DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis .
The cytotoxic activity of dactinomycin has been demonstrated in animal models of different human cancers .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Dactinomycin exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The distribution and excretion of radioloabeled dactinomycin ( 3 H actinomycin D ) were assessed in three adult patients with malignant melanoma .
Distribution 3 H actinomycin D is concentrated in nucleated cells and does not penetrate the blood - brain barrier .
Elimination Excretion Following administration of radiolabeled dactinomycin , approximately 30 % was recovered in urine and feces in one week .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients Published studies and population analyses in patients ≤ 21 years of age with cancer report a trend of increasing systemic dactinomycin clearance with increasing body weight .
Drug Interaction Studies Published in vitro studies report that dactinomycin may be a substrate of the P - glycoprotein and OATP1B3 transporter systems .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dactinomycin is a carcinogen in animals .
Local sarcomas were produced in mice and rats after repeated subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections .
Mesenchymal tumors occurred in male rats given intraperitoneal injections of 50 mcg / kg , 2 to 5 times per week , for 18 weeks , at doses ( based on body surface area ) 0 . 5 times the clinical dose of 1250 mcg / m 2 .
Dactinomycin was mutagenic in several in vitro and in vivo test systems including human fibroblasts and leukocytes , and HeLa cells .
DNA damage and cytogenetic effects have been demonstrated in the mouse and the rat .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
“ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING COSMEGEN ( dactinomycin for injection ) for intravenous use is supplied as a sterile , amorphous yellow to orange , lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
Each COSMEGEN vial ( NDC 55292 - 811 - 55 ) contains 0 . 5 mg of dactinomycin and 20 mg of mannitol .
Store at 20 to 25ºC ( 68 to 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted between 15 to 30ºC ( 59 to 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect COSMEGEN from light and humidity .
Store the reconstituted COSMEGEN at room temperature for no more than 4 hours from reconstitution to completion of administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
COSMEGEN is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia Advise patients of the increased risk of secondary malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Veno - occlusive Disease Advise patients about the symptoms of VOD and to seek medical attention if they develop new onset jaundice , abdominal distention , or right upper quadrant pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Myelosuppression Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for any signs or symptoms of myelosuppression or infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Advise patients of the risk of severe mucocutaneous reactions and to contact their health care provided for new skin lesions , mouth sores or oropharyngeal lesions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Toxicity or Hepatotoxicity Advise patients of the need for periodic laboratory testing to monitor for renal toxicity and hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall Advise patients of the risk of increased radiation - induced gastrointestinal , myelosuppression and skin toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for 6 months after final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with COSMEGEN and for 3 months after final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with COSMEGEN and for 14 days after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Baxter Oncology GmbH , 33790 Halle / Westfalen , Germany Manufactured for : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . , Lebanon , NJ 08833 , U . S . A . COSMEGEN is a registered trademark of Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
PX 2092 / 5 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 55292 - 811 - 55 12 Single Dose Vials Cosmegen ® for Injection ( dactinomycin for injection ) 500 mcg ( 0 . 5 mg ) Store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Protect from light and humidity .
RECORDATI RARE DISEASES GROUP R x only Manufactured by : Baxter Oncology GmbH , 33790 Halle / Westfalen , Germany For : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . , Lebanon , NJ 08833 , U . S . A . ® Trademark of Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
