DESCRIPTION Infasurf ® ( calfactant ) Intratracheal Suspension is a sterile , non - pyrogenic lung surfactant intended for intratracheal instillation only .
It is an extract of natural surfactant from calf lungs which includes phospholipids , neutral lipids , and hydrophobic surfactant - associated proteins B and C ( SP - B and SP - C ) .
It contains no preservatives .
Infasurf is an off - white suspension of calfactant in 0 . 9 % aqueous sodium chloride solution .
It has a pH of 5 . 0 - 6 . 2 ( target pH 5 . 7 ) .
Each milliliter of Infasurf contains 35 mg total phospholipids ( including 26 mg phosphatidylcholine of which 16 mg is disaturated phosphatidylcholine ) and 0 . 7 mg proteins including 0 . 26 mg of SP - B .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Endogenous lung surfactant is essential for effective ventilation because it modifies alveolar surface tension thereby stabilizing the alveoli .
Lung surfactant deficiency is the cause of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants .
Infasurf restores surface activity to the lungs of these infants .
Activity : Infasurf adsorbs rapidly to the surface of the air : liquid interface and modifies surface tension similarly to natural lung surfactant .
A minimum surface tension of less than or equal to 3 mN / m is produced in vitro by Infasurf as measured on a pulsating bubble surfactometer .
Ex vivo , Infasurf restores the pressure volume mechanics and compliance of surfactant - deficient rat lungs .
In vivo , Infasurf improves lung compliance , respiratory gas exchange , and survival in preterm lambs with profound surfactant deficiency .
Animal Metabolism : Infasurf is administered directly to the lung lumen surface , its site of action .
No human studies of absorption , biotransformation , or excretion of Infasurf have been performed .
The administration of Infasurf with radiolabeled phospholipids into the lungs of adult rabbits results in the persistence of 50 % of radioactivity in the lung alveolar lining and25 % of radioactivity in the lung tissue 24 hours later .
Less than 5 % of the radioactivity is found in other organs .
In premature lambs with lethal surfactant deficiency , less than 30 % of instilled Infasurf is present in the lung lining after 24 hours .
Clinical Studies : The efficacy of Infasurf was demonstrated in two multiple - dose controlled clinical trials involving approximately 2 , 000 infants treated with Infasurf ( approximately 100 mg phospholipid / kg ) or Exosurf Neonatal ® .
In addition , two controlled trials of Infasurf versus Survanta ® , and four uncontrolled trials were conducted that involved approximately 15 , 500 patients treated with Infasurf .
Infasurf versus Exosurf Neonatal ® Treatment Trial A total of 1 , 126 infants less than or equal to 72 hours of age with RDS who required endotracheal intubation and had an a / A PO2 less than 0 . 22 were enrolled into a multiple - dose , randomized , double - blind treatment trial comparing Infasurf ( 3 mL / kg ) and Exosurf Neonatal ® ( 5 mL / kg ) .
Patients were given an initial dose and one repeat dose 12 hours later if intubation was still required .
The dose was instilled in two aliquots through a side port adapter into the proximal end of the endotracheal tube .
Each aliquot was given in small bursts over 20 - 30 inspiratory cycles .
After each aliquot was instilled , the infant was positioned with either the right or the left side dependent .
Results for efficacy parameters evaluated at 28 days or to discharge for all treated patients from this treatment trial are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 - Infasurf vs Exosurf Neonatal ® Treatment TrialEfficacy Parameter Infasurf ( N = 570 ) % Exosurf Neonatal ® ( N = 556 ) % p - Value Incidence of air leaks a 11 22 less than or equal to 0 . 001 Death due to RDS 4 4 0 . 95 Any death to 28 days 8 10 0 . 21 Any death before discharge 9 12 0 . 07 BPD b 5 6 0 . 41 Crossover to other surfactant c 4 4 1 a Pneumothorax and / or pulmonary interstitial emphysema .
b BPD is bronchopulmonary dysplasia , diagnosed by positive X - ray and oxygen dependence at 28 days .
c Protocol permitted use of comparator surfactant in patients who failed to respond to therapy with the initial randomized surfactant if the infant was less than 96 hours of age , had received a full course of the randomized surfactant , and had an a / A PO2 ratio less than 0 . 10 Prophylaxis Trial A total of 853 infants less than 29 weeks gestation were enrolled into a multiple - dose , randomized , double - blind prophylaxis trial comparing Infasurf ( 3 mL / kg ) and Exosurf Neonatal ® ( 5 mL / kg ) .
The initial dose was administered within 30 minutes of birth .
Repeat doses were administered at 12 and 24 hours if the patient remained intubated .
Each dose was administered divided in 2 equal aliquots , and given through a side port adapter into the proximal end of the endotra cheal tube .
Each aliquot was given in small bursts over 20 - 30 inspiratory cycles .
After each aliquot was instilled , the infant was positioned with either the right or the left side dependent .
Results for efficacy parameters evaluated to day 28 or to discharge for all treated patients from this prophylaxis trial are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 - Infasurf vs Exosurf Neonatal ® Prophylaxis TrialEfficacy Parameter Infasurf ( N = 431 ) % Exosurf Neonatal ® ( N = 422 ) % p - Value Incidence of RDS 15 47 less than or equal to 0 . 001 Incidence of air leaks a 10 15 0 . 01 Death due to RDS 2 5 less than or equal to 0 . 01 Any death to 28 days 12 16 0 . 10 Any death before discharge 18 19 0 . 56 BPD b 18 17 0 . 60 Crossover to other surfactant c 0 . 2 3 less than or equal to 0 . 001 a Pneumothorax and / or pulmonary interstitial emphysema .
b BPD is bronchopulmonary dysplasia , diagnosed by positive X - ray and oxygen dependence at 28 days .
c Protocol permitted use of comparator surfactant in patients who failed to respond to therapy with the initial randomized surfactant if the infant was less than 72 hours of age , had received a full course of the randomized surfactant , and had an a / A PO2 ratio less than 0 . 10 Infasurf versus Survanta ® Treatment Trial A total of 662 infants with RDS who required endotracheal intubation and had an a / A PO2 less than 0 . 22 were enrolled into a multiple - dose , randomized , double - blind treatment trial comparing Infasurf ( 4 mL / kg of a formulation that contained 25 mg of phospholipids / mL rather than the 35 mg / mL in the marketed formulation ) and Survanta ® ( 4 mL / kg ) .
Repeat doses were allowed Greater than or equal to 6 hours following the previous treatment ( for up to three doses before 96 hours of age ) if the patient required Greater than or equal to 30 % oxygen .
The surfactant was given through a 5 French feeding catheter inserted into the endo tracheal tube .
The total dose was instilled in four equal aliquots with the catheter removed between each of the instillations and mechanical ventilation resumed for 0 . 5 to 2 minutes .
Each of the aliquots was administered with the patient in one of four different positions ( prone , supine , right , and left lateral ) to facilitate even distribution of the surfactant .
Results for the major efficacy parameters evaluated at 28 days or to discharge ( incidence of air leaks , death due to respiratory causes or to any cause , BPD , or treatment failure ) for all treated patients from this treatment trial were not significantly different between Infasurf and Survanta ® .
Prophylaxis Trial A total of 457 infants less than or equal to 30 weeks gestation and less than 1251 grams birth weight were enrolled into a multiple - dose , randomized , double - blind trial comparing Infasurf ( 4 mL / kg of a formulation that contained 25 mg of phospholipids / mL rather than the 35 mg / mL in the marketed formulation ) and Survanta ® ( 4 mL / kg ) .
The initial dose was administered within15 minutes of birth and repeat doses were allowed Greater than or equal to 6 hours following the previous treatment ( for up to three doses before 96 hours of age ) if the patient required Greater than or equal to 30 % oxygen .
The surfactant was given through a 5 French feeding catheter inserted into the endotracheal tube .
The total dose was instilled in four equal aliquots with the catheter removed between each of the instillations and mechanical ventilation resumed for 0 . 5 to 2 minutes .
Each of the aliquots was administered with the patient in one of four different positions ( prone , supine , right , and left lateral ) .
Results for efficacy endpoints evaluated at 28 days or to discharge for all treated patients from this prophylaxis trial showed an increase in mortality from any cause at 28 days ( p = 0 . 03 ) and in death due to respiratory causes ( p = 0 . 005 ) in Infasurf - treated infants .
For evaluable patients ( patients who met the protocol - defined entry criteria ) , mortality from any cause and mortality due to respiratory causes were also higher in the Infasurf group ( p = 0 . 07 and 0 . 03 , respectively ) .
However , these observations have not been replicated in other adequate and well - controlled trials and their relevance to the intended population is unknown .
All other efficacy outcomes ( incidence of RDS , air leaks , BPD , and treatment failure ) were not significantly different between Infasurf and Survanta ® when analyzed for all treated patients and for evaluable patients .
Acute Clinical Effects : As with other surfactants , marked improvements in oxygenation and lung compliance may occur shortly after the administration of Infasurf .
All controlled clinical trials with Infasurf demonstrated significant improvements in fraction of inspired oxygen ( FiO2 ) and mean airway pressure ( MAP ) during the first 24 to 48 hours following initiation of Infasurf therapy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Infasurf is indicated for the prevention of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants at high risk for RDS and for the treatment ( “ rescue ” ) of premature infants who develop RDS .
Infasurf decreases the incidence of RDS , mortality due to RDS , and air leaks associated with RDS .
Prophylaxis Prophylaxis therapy at birth with Infasurf is indicated for premature infants less than 29 weeks of gestational age at significant risk for RDS .
Infasurf prophylaxis should be administered as soon as possible , preferably within 30 minutes after birth .
Treatment Infasurf therapy is indicated for infants less than or equal to 72 hours of age with RDS ( confirmed by clinical and radiologic findings ) and requiring endotracheal intubation .
WARNINGS Infasurf is intended for intratracheal use only .
THE ADMINISTRATION OF EXOGENOUS SURFACTANTS , INCLUDING INFASURF , OFTEN RAPIDLY IMPROVES OXY GENATION AND LUNG COMPLIANCE .
Following administration of Infasurf , patients should be carefully monitored so that oxygen therapy and ventilatory support can be modified in response to changes in respiratory status .
Infasurf therapy is not a substitute for neonatal intensive care .
Optimal care of premature infants at risk for RDS and new born infants with RDS who need endotracheal intubation requires an acute care unit organized , staffed , equipped , and experienced with intubation , ventilator management , and general care of these patients .
TRANSIENT EPISODES OF REFLUX OF INFASURF INTO THE ENDOTRACHEAL TUBE , CYANOSIS , BRADYCARDIA , OR AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION HAVE OCCURRED DURING THE DOSING PROCEDURES .
These events require stopping Infasurf administration and taking appropriate measures to alleviate the condition .
After the patient is stable , dosing can proceed with appropriate monitoring .
PRECAUTIONS When repeat dosing was given at fixed 12 - hour intervals in the Infasurf vs . Exosurf Neonatal ® trials , transient episodes of cyanosis , bradycardia , reflux of surfactant into the endotracheal tube , and airway obstruction were observed more frequently among infants in the Infasurf - treated group .
An increased proportion of patients with both intraventricular hemorrhage ( IVH ) and periventricular leukomalacia ( PVL ) was observed in Infasurf - treated infants in the Infasurf - Exosurf Neonatal ® controlled trials .
These observations were not associated with increased mortality .
No data are available on the use of Infasurf in conjunction with experimental therapies of RDS , e . g . , high - frequency ventilation .
Data from controlled trials on the efficacy of Infasurf are limited to doses of approximately 100 mg phospholipid / kg body weight and up to a total of 4 doses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis studies and animal reproduction studies have not been performed with Infasurf .
A single mutagenicity study ( Ames assay ) was negative .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions associated with Infasurf dosing procedures in the controlled trials were cyanosis ( 65 % ) , airway obstruction ( 39 % ) , bradycardia ( 34 % ) , reflux of surfactant into the endotracheal tube ( 21 % ) , requirement for manual ventilation ( 16 % ) , and reintubation ( 3 % ) .
These events were generally transient and not associated with serious complications or death .
The incidence of common complications of prematurity and RDS in the four controlled Infasurf trials are presented in Table3 . Prophylaxis and treatment study results for each surfactant are combined .
Table 3 - Common Complications of Prematurity and RDS in Controlled TrialsComplication Infasurf ( N = 1001 ) % Exosurf Neonatal ® ( N = 978 ) % Infasurf ( N = 553 ) % Survanta ® ( N = 566 ) % Apnea 61 61 76 76 Patent ductus arteriosus 47 48 45 48 Intracranial hemorrhage 29 31 36 36 Severe intracranial hemorrhagea 12 10 9 7 IVH and PVL b 7 3 5 5 Sepsis 20 22 28 27 Pulmonary air leaks 12 22 15 15 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema 7 17 10 10 Pulmonary hemorrhage 7 7 7 6 Necrotizing enterocolitis 5 5 17 18 a Grade III and IV by the method of Papile .
b Patients with both intraventricular hemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia .
Follow - up Evaluations Two - year follow - up data of neurodevelopmental outcomes in 415 infants enrolled in 5 centers that participated in the Infasurf vs . Exosurf Neonatal ® controlled trials demonstrated significant developmental delays in equal percentages of Infasurf and Exosurf Neonatal ® patients .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdosage with Infasurf .
While there are no known adverse effects of excess lung surfactant , overdosage would result in overloading the lungs with an isotonic solution .
Ventilation should be supported until clearance of the liquid is accomplished .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR INTRATRACHEAL ADMINISTRATION ONLY Infasurf should be administered under the supervision of clinicians experienced in the acute care of newborn infants with respiratory failure who require intubation .
Rapid and substantial increases in blood oxygenation and improved lung compliance often follow Infasurf instillation .
Close clinical monitoring and surveillance following administration may be needed to adjust oxygen therapy and ventilator pressures appropriately .
Dosage Each dose of Infasurf is 3 mL / kg body weight at birth .
Infasurf has been administered every 12 hours for a total of up to 3 doses .
Directions for Use Infasurf is a suspension which settles during storage .
Gentle swirling or agitation of the vial is often necessary for redispersion .
DO NOT SHAKE .
Visible flecks in the suspension and foaming at the surface are normal for Infasurf .
Infasurf should be stored at refrigerated temperature 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
THE 3 mL VIAL MUST BE STORED UPRIGHT .
Date and time need to be recorded on the carton when Infasurf is removed from the refrigerator .
Warming of Infasurf before administration is not necessary .
Unopened , unused vials of Infasurf that have warmed to room temperature can be returned to refrigerated storage within 24 hours for future use .
Infasurf should not be removed from the refrigerator for more than 24 hours .
Infasurf should not be returned to the refrigerator more than once .
Repeated warming to room temperature should be avoided .
Each single - use vial should be entered only once and the vial with any unused material should be discarded after the initial entry .
INFASURF DOES NOT REQUIRE RECONSTITUTION .
DO NOT DILUTE OR SONICATE .
Dosing Procedures General Infasurf should only be administered intratracheally through an endotracheal tube .
The dose of Infasurf is 3 mL / kg birth weight .
The dose is drawn into a syringe from the single - use vial using a 20 - gauge or larger needle with care taken to avoid excessive foaming .
Administration is made by instillation of the Infasurf suspension into the endotracheal tube .
Administration for Treatment of RDS When used to treat RDS , Infasurf may be administered using either of the following 2 methods : Exosurf Active Control Trials : Initial and Repeat Dosing In the Infasurf vs . Exosurf ® trials , Infasurf was administered intratracheally through a side - port adapter into the endotracheal tube .
Two attendants , one to instill the Infasurf , the other to monitor the patient and assist in positioning , facilitated the dosing .
The dose ( 3 mL / kg ) was administered in two aliquots of 1 . 5 mL / kg each .
After each aliquot was instilled , the infant was positioned with either the right or the left side dependent .
Administration was made while ventilation was continued over 20 - 30 breaths for each aliquot , with small bursts timed only during the inspiratory cycles .
A pause followed by evaluation of the respiratory status and repositioning separated the two aliquots .
Repeat doses of 3 mL / kg of birth weight , up to a total of 3 doses 12 hours apart , were given if the patient was still intubated .
Survanta Active Control Trials : Initial and Repeat Dosing In the Infasurf vs . Survanta ® trials , Infasurf was administered through a 5 French feeding catheter inserted into the endotracheal tube .
The total dose was instilled in four equal aliquots with the catheter removed between each of the instillations and mechanical ventilation resumed for 0 . 5 to 2 minutes .
Each of the aliquots was administered with the patient in one of four different positions ( prone , supine , right , and left lateral ) to facilitate even distribution of the surfactant .
Repeat doses were administered as early as 6 hours after the previous dose for a total of up to 4 doses if the infant was still intubated and required at least 30 % inspired oxygen to maintain a PaO2 less than or equal to 80 torr .
Administration for Prophylaxis of RDS at Birth Dosing procedures are described under Administration for Treatment of RDS .
The amount of a prophylaxis dose of Infasurf should be based on the infant ’ s birth weight .
Administration of Infasurf for prophylaxis should be given as soon as possible after birth .
Usually the immediate care and stabilization of the premature infant born with hypoxemia and / or bradycardia should precede Infasurf prophylaxis .
Dosing Precautions During administration of Infasurf liquid suspension into the airway , infants often experience bradycardia , reflux of Infasurf into the endotracheal tube , airway obstruction , cyanosis , dislodgement of the endotracheal tube , or hypoventilation .
If any of these events occur , the administration should be interrupted and the infant ’ s condition should be stabilized using appropriate interventions before the administration of Infasurf is resumed .
Endotracheal suctioning or reintubation is sometimes needed when there are signs of airway obstruction during the administration of the surfactant .
HOW SUPPLIED Infasurf ( calfactant ) Intratracheal Suspension is supplied sterile in single - use , rubber - stoppered glass vials containing 3 mL ( NDC 61938 - 456 - 03 ) and 6 mL ( NDC 61938 - 456 - 06 ) off - white suspension .
Rx only Manufactured by : ONY Biotech Inc . , Amherst , NY 14228 Rev . 03 / 18 Store Infasurf ( calfactant ) Intratracheal Suspension at refrigerated temperature 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) and protect from light .
THE 3 mL VIAL MUST BE STORED UPRIGHT .
Vials are for single use only .
After opening , discard unused drug .
NDC 61938 - 456 - 03 INFASURF R 3 mL ( calfactant ) Intratracheal Suspension Sterile , Non - Pyrogenic Suspension for Intratracheal Use Only Not for injection Rx only STORE AT 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT STORE UPRIGHT SWIRL GENTLY TO RESUSPEND BEFORE USE SINGLE USE VIAL : DICARD UNUSED PORTION .
Dosage : 3 mL of Infasurf per kg of body weight .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Each ml .
of suspension contains 35 mg of phospholpids and 0 . 7 mg of portion .
Manufactured by : ONY Biotech Inc . , Amherst , NY 14228 Rev . 03 / 18 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
