DESCRIPTION • CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY • CLINICAL STUDIES • INDICATIONS AND USAGE • CONTRAINDICATIONS • WARNINGS Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to Metformin accumulation during treatment with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When Metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , Metformin plasma levels > 5 mcg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving Metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to Metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ’ s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and by use of the minimum effective dose of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , since alcohol potentiates the effects of Metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ’ s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose , and if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood Metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because Metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated Metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS . )
PRECAUTIONS • ADVERSE REACTIONS • OVERDOSAGE • DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Patient Package Insert • PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
