DESCRIPTION Each phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsule , USP with red cap and body , is imprinted with “ Amneal ” on cap and “ 1502 ” on body , and contains 10 mg of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , USP .
Inactive ingredients consist of colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C red 33 , FD & C red 3 , gelatin , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The capsule is imprinted with white pharmaceutical ink which contains butyl alcohol , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac , strong ammonia solution and titanium dioxide .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is chemically known as N - ( 2 - Chloroethyl ) - N - ( 1 - methyl - 2 - phenoxyethyl ) benzylamine hydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C18H22ClNO · HCl .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , USP is a white to almost white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 340 . 29 g / mol , which melts between 136 ° and 141 ° C .
It is freely soluble in ethanol ( 96 % ) and insoluble in diethyl ether .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is a long - acting , adrenergic , alpha - receptor - blocking agent , which can produce and maintain “ chemical sympathectomy ” by oral administration .
It increases blood flow to the skin , mucosa and abdominal viscera , and lowers both supine and erect blood pressures .
It has no effect on the parasympathetic system .
20 percent to 30 percent of orally administered phenoxybenzamine appears to be absorbed in the active form1 .
The half - life of orally administered phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is not known ; however , the half - life of intravenously administered phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is approximately 24 hours .
Demonstrable effects with intravenous administration persist for at least 3 to 4 days , and the effects of daily administration are cumulative for nearly a week1 .
INDICATION AND USAGE Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsules are indicated in the treatment of pheochromocytoma , to control episodes of hypertension and sweating .
If tachycardia is excessive , it may be necessary to use a beta - blocking agent concomitantly .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Conditions where a fall in blood pressure may be undesirable ; hypersensitivity to the phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsules , or any of its components .
WARNING Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride - induced alpha - adrenergic blockade leaves beta - adrenergic receptors unopposed .
Compounds that stimulate both types of receptors may , therefore , produce an exaggerated hypotensive response and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General – Administer with caution in patients with marked cerebral or coronary arteriosclerosis or renal damage .
Adrenergic blocking effect may aggravate symptoms of respiratory infections .
Drug Interactions2 – Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride may interact with compounds that stimulate both alpha - and beta - adrenergic receptors ( i . e . epinephrine ) to produce an exaggerated hypotensive response and tachycardia ( see WARNING ) .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride blocks hyperthermia production by levarterenol , and blocks hypothermia production by reserpine .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis Case reports of carcinoma in humans after long - term treatment with phenoxybenzamine have been reported .
Hence long - term use of phenoxybenzamine is not recommended3 , 4 .
Carefully weigh the benefits and risks before prescribing phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride showed in vitro mutagenic activity in the Ames test and mouse lymphoma assay ; it did not show mutagenic activity in vivo in the micronucleus test in mice .
In rats and mice , repeated intraperitoneal administration of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride ( three times per week for up to 52 weeks ) resulted in peritoneal sarcomas .
Chronic oral dosing in rats ( for up to 2 years ) produced malignant tumors of the small intestine and non - glandular stomach , as well as ulcerative and / or erosive gastritis of the glandular stomach .
Whereas squamous cell carcinomas of the non - glandular stomach were observed at all tested doses of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , there was a no - observed - effect - level of 10 mg / kg for tumors ( carcinomas and sarcomas ) of the small intestine .
This dose is , on a body surface area basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dosage of 20 mg b . i . d . Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects Adequate reproductive studies in animals have not been performed with phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride .
It is also not known whether phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there are insufficient data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Autonomic Nervous System * : Postural hypotension , tachycardia , inhibition of ejaculation , nasal congestion , miosis .
* These so - called “ side effects ” are actually evidence of adrenergic blockade and vary according to the degree of blockade .
Miscellaneous : Gastrointestinal irritation , drowsiness , fatigue .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE SYMPTOMS - These are largely the result of blocking of the sympathetic nervous system and of the circulating epinephrine .
They may include postural hypotension , resulting in dizziness or fainting ; tachycardia , particularly postural ; vomiting ; lethargy ; shock .
Treatment When symptoms and signs of overdosage exist , discontinue phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsules .
Treatment of circulatory failure , if present , is a prime consideration .
In cases of mild overdosage , recumbent position with legs elevated usually restores cerebral circulation .
In the more severe cases , the usual measures to combat shock should be instituted .
Usual pressor agents are not effective .
Epinephrine is contraindicated because it stimulates both alpha - and beta - receptors ; since alpha - receptors are blocked , the net effect of epinephrine administration is vasodilation and a further drop in blood pressure ( epinephrine reversal ) .
The patient may have to be kept flat for 24 hours or more in the case of overdose , as the effect of the drug is prolonged .
Leg bandages and an abdominal binder may shorten the period of disability .
Intravenous infusion of levarterenol bitartrate ** may be used to combat severe hypotensive reactions , because it stimulates alpha - receptors primarily .
Although phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is an alpha - adrenergic blocking agent , a sufficient dose of levarterenol bitartrate will overcome this effect .
The oral LD50 for phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is approximately 2 , 000 mg / kg in rats and approximately 500 mg / kg in guinea pigs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage should be adjusted to fit the needs of each patient .
Small initial doses should be slowly increased until the desired effect is obtained or the side effects from blockade become troublesome .
After each increase , the patient should be observed on that level before instituting another increase .
The dosage should be carried to a point where symptomatic relief and / or objective improvement are obtained , but not so high that the side effects from blockade become troublesome .
Initially , 10 mg of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride twice a day .
Dosage should be increased every other day , usually to 20 mg to 40 mg 2 or 3 times a day , until an optimal dosage is obtained , as judged by blood pressure control .
Long - term use of phenoxybenzamine is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS - Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Phenoxybenzamine Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 10 mg are supplied as size ‘ 3 ’ red colored transparent hard gelatin capsule , imprinted with “ Amneal ” on cap and “ 1502 ” on body with white ink containing white to off - white powder .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 69238 - 1502 - 1 STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight container as defined in the USP .
REFERENCES • Weiner , N . : Drugs That Inhibit Adrenergic Nerves and Block Adrenergic Receptors , in Goodman , L . , and Gilman , A . , The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics , ed .
6 , New York , Macmillan Publishing Co . , 1980 , p . 179 ; p . 182 .
• Martin , E . W . : Drug Interactions Index 1978 / 1979 , Philadelphia , J . B . Lippincott Co . , 1978 , pp . 209 - 210 .
• Nettesheim O , Hoffken G , Gahr M , Breidert M : Haematemesis and dysphagia in a 20 - year - old woman with congenital spine malformation and situs inversus partialis [ German ] .
Zeitschrift fur Gastroenterologie .
2003 ; 41 ( 4 ) : 319 - 24 .
• Vaidyanathan S , Mansour P , Soni BM , Hughes PL , Singh G : Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia , synchronous small cell carcinoma and squamous neoplasia of the urinary bladder in a paraplegic man following long - term phenoxybenzamine therapy .
Spinal Cord .
2006 ; 44 ( 3 ) : 188 - 91 .
** Available as Levophed ® Bitartrate ( brand of norepinephrine bitartrate ) from Abbott Laboratories .
All brand names listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC .
Manufactured by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Pvt . Ltd .
Oral Solid Dosage Unit Ahmedabad 382213 , INDIA Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 12 - 2020 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 69238 - 1502 - 1 Phenoxybenzamine Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 10 mg 100 Capsules Rx only Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
