Each capsule contains : Naxproxen , ESP .......... 500 mg Dosage and Use : For dosage recommendations and other important prescribing information , read accompanying insert .
Store at 20 to 25 C ( 68 to 77 F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 C ( 59 to 86 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Dispense in well - closed , light - resistant containers as defined in the USP .
BOXED WARNING Cardiovascular Risk - NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
- Naproxen as Naproxen Tablets , USP is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( see WARNINGS ) .
Gastrointestinal Risk - NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration .
and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
DESCRIPTION Naproxen , USP is a proprionic acid derivative related to the arylacetic acid group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics - Naproxen is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) with analgesic and antipyretic properties .
CLINICAL STUDIES General Information - Naproxen has been studied in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , osteoarthritis , juvenile arthritis , ankylosing spondylitis , tendonitis and bursitis , and acute gout .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of naproxen tablets , USP and other treatments before deciding to sue naproxen tablets , USP .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naproxen tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to naproxen , USP .
WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects - Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and non - selective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
PRECAUTIONS General - Naproxen - containing products such as naproxen tablets , and other naproxen products should not be used concomitantly since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxin anion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms and Signs Significant naproxen overdosage may be characterized by lethargy , dizziness , drowsiness , epigastric pain , abdominal discomfort , heartburn , indigestion , nausea , transient alterations in liver function , hypoprothrombinemia , renal dysfunction , metabolic acidosis , apnea , disorientation or vomiting .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of naproxen tablets , USP and other treatment options before deciding to use naproxen tablets , USP .
MEDICATION GUIDE FOR NONSTEROIDAL ANTI - INFLAMMATORY DRUGS ( NSAIDS ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
