BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE injection , solution BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE AND EPINEPHRINE ( bupivacaine hydrochloride and epinephrine bitartrate ) injection , solution [ Hospira , Inc . ] Rx only THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION OF BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR OBSTETRICAL ANESTHESIA .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF CARDIAC ARREST WITH DIFFICULT RESUSCITATION OR DEATH DURING USE OF BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE FOR EPIDURAL ANESTHESIA IN OBSTETRICAL PATIENTS .
IN MOST CASES , THIS HAS FOLLOWED USE OF THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION .
RESUSCITATION HAS BEEN DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE DESPITE APPARENTLY ADEQUATE PREPARATION AND APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT .
CARDIAC ARREST HAS OCCURRED AFTER CONVULSIONS RESULTING FROM SYSTEMIC TOXICITY , PRESUMABLY FOLLOWING UNINTENTIONAL INTRAVASCULAR INJECTION .
THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION SHOULD BE RESERVED FOR SURGICAL PROCEDURES WHERE A HIGH DEGREE OF MUSCLE RELAXATION AND PROLONGED EFFECT ARE NECESSARY .
DESCRIPTION Bupivacaine Hydrochloride is 2 - Piperidinecarboxamide , 1 - butyl - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , monohydrochloride , monohydrate , a white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in 95 percent ethanol , soluble in water , and slightly soluble in chloroform or acetone .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] bupivacaine hydrochloride 1 Epinephrine is ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] bupivacaine hydrochloride 2 infiltration , peripheral nerve block , and caudal and lumbar epidural blocks .
Solutions of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride may be autoclaved if they do not contain epinephrine .
Solutions are clear and colorless .
Bupivacaine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the aminoacyl local anesthetics .
It is a homologue of mepivacaine and is chemically related to lidocaine .
All three of these anesthetics contain an amide linkage between the aromatic nucleus and the amino , or piperidine group .
They differ in this respect from the procaine - type local anesthetics , which have an ester linkage .
Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is available in sterile , isotonic solutions containing bupivacaine hydrochloride in water for injection with characteristics as follows : Buivacaine Hydrochloride Injection USP ( without epinephrine ) Concentration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride mg / ml Sodium Chloride mg / ml 0 . 25 % 2 . 5 8 . 6 0 . 5 % 5 8 . 1 0 . 75 % 7 . 5 7 . 6 May contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
( See HOW SUPPLIED section for pH information . )
Multiple - dose vials contain methylparaben 1 mg / mL added as a preservative .
Bupivacaine and Epinephrine Injection , USP is available in sterile , isotonic solutions containing bupivacaine hydrochloride and epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 with characteristics as follows : Bupivacaine and Epinephrine Injection , USPConcentration ( Bupivacaine HCL ) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride ( mg / ml ) Epinephrine 1 : 2000 , 000 ( mcg / ml ) Sodium Chloride ( mg / ml ) 0 . 25 % 2 . 5 5 8 . 5 0 . 5 % 5 5 8 . 5 0 . 75 % 7 Sodium metabisulfite 0 . 1 mg / mL added as antioxidant and edetate calcium disodium , anhydrous 0 . 1 mg / mL added as stabilizer .
May contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
( See HOW SUPPLIED section for pH information . )
Multiple - dose vials contain methylparaben 1 mg / mL added as a preservative .
Single - dose solutions contain no added bacteriostat or anti - microbial agent and unused portions should be discarded after use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 0 . 25 % 30 ML Ampule APLICARE POVIDONE - IODINE SOLUTION ( povidone - iodine solution ) solution 3 / 4 FLUID OUNCE Povidone - iodine 10 % Antiseptic Warnings Do not use : • if allergic to iodine • in the eyes For external use only Ask a doctor before use if injuries are • deep or puncture wounds • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • redness , irritation , swelling or pain persists or • increases infection occurs Avoid pooling beneath patient Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or consult a poison control center immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Aplicare Povidone Iodine PDP [ MULTIMEDIA ] LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE ( lidocaine hydrochloride anhydrous ) injection , solution AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK Ampul Plastic Multiple - dose Fliptop Vial Glass Teartop Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of lidocaine hydrochloride in water for injection for parenteral administration in various concentrations with characteristics as follows : Concentration 0 . 5 % 1 % 1 . 5 % 2 % mg / ml lidocaine HCL ( anhyd . )
5 10 15 20 mg / ml sodium chloride 8 7 6 Multiple - dose vials contain 0 . 1 % of methylparaben added as preservative .
May contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The pH is 6 . 5 ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
See HOW SUPPLIED section for various sizes and strengths .
Lidocaine is a local anesthetic of the amide type .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride , USP is chemically designated 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - acetamide monohydrochloride monohydrate , a white powder freely soluble in water .
The molecular weight is 288 . 82 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] lidocaine hydrochloride injection figure The semi - rigid vial used for the plastic vials is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposable , Convenience Kit ( Single Shot Epidural Tray ) Kit Contains : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution of sodium chloride 0 . 9 % ( 9 mg / mL ) in Water for Injection containing no antimicrobial agent or other added substance .
The pH is between 4 . 5 and 7 . 0 .
Its chloride and sodium ion concentrates are approximately 0 . 154 mEq of each per milliliter and its calculated osmolality is 0 . 308 milliosmols per mL .
Sodium chloride occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium Chloride is freely soluble in water .
It is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl , and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium chloride comprises over 90 % of the inorganic constituents of the blood serum .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The small volume of Fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % when used only as a vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in very small infants .
Sodium Chloride must be used with caution in the presence of congestive heart failure , circulatory insufficiency , kidney dysfunction or hypoproteinemia .
Excessive amounts of sodium chloride by any route may cause hypokalemia and acidosis .
Excessive amounts by parental routes may precipitate congestive heart failure and acute pulmonary edema , especially seen in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease and those receiving corticos - teroids , corticotropin or other drugs that may give rise to sodium retention .
For use in newborns , when a Sodium Chloride solution is required for preparation or diluting medications , or in flushing intravenous catheters , only preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be used .
Sodium Chloride Injection is used to flush intravascular catheters or as a sterile , isotonic single dose vehicle , solvent , or diluent for substances to be administered intravenously , intramuscularly or subcutaneously and for other extemporaneously prepared single dose sterile solutions according to instructions of the manufacture of the drug to be administered .
Since Sodium Chloride Injection does not contain antimicrobial agents and is intended for single use , any unused amount must be discarded immediately following withdrawal of any portion of the contents of the vial or ampul .
Do not open ampul until it is to be used .
Consult the manufactures instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drug to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
When used as a diluent , solvent or intravascular flushing solution , this parental preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possible in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
Before Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacture .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use in flushing intravenous catheters .
Prior to and after administration of the medication , the intravenous catheter should be flushed in its entirety with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
Use in accord with any warnings or precautions appropriate to the medication being administered .
Parental drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
To open ampuls , using gauze , place thumb and forefinger on color line , break at constriction .
0 . 9 % 10 ML ampule Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Manufactured for : Spectra Medical Devices , Inc . 260 - F Fordham Road , Wilmington , MA 01887 By : KM .
Pharm .
Co . , LTD .
SM1500 Rev . B 12 / 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
