Drug Facts Active ingredients Menthol 16 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • ♦ simple backache • ♦ arthritis • ♦ strains • ♦ bruises • ♦ sprains Warnings For external use only .
Test on a small patch of skin before applying generously .
When using this product • ♦ use only as directed • ♦ avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • ♦ do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • ♦ do not bandage tightly • ♦ do not use with heating pads or other heating devices • ♦ if redness is present , discontinue use and consult a doctor • ♦ if skin irritation occurs , discontinue use • ♦ a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days Stop use and consult a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Flammable • ♦ keep away from fire or flame If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : • ♦ apply generously to affected area • ♦ massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed into skin • ♦ repeat if necessary , but not more than 3 to 4 times daily • ♦ IF MEDICINE COMES IN CONTACT WITH HANDS , WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER .
Children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , alcohol denat . , capsaicin , citric acid , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , propylene glycol , water .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 309 - 9030 DISTRIBUTED BY DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE , GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 74 mL Bottle Carton DG ™ | health Compare to active ingredient of IcyHot ® * Cold ' n Hot Pain Relieving Liquid Menthol 16 % • Powerful , fast and effective pain relief • No - mess applicator • Stain - free 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 74 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
