Active Ingredient : Guaifenesin 200 mg Inactive Ingredients : Carnauba wax , cellulose , dextrin , fenugreek ( seed ) extract , glycerin , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , marshmallow ( root ) extract , mullein ( leaf ) extract , povidone , silica , sodium croscarmellose , stearic acid Dosage & Administration : adults & children 12 years and over : take 1 - 2 tablets every 4 hours , not to exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to 11 years of age : take 1 / 2 to 1 tablet every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor before use Purpose : Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of mucus and make coughs more productive .
Indications & Useage : Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of mucus and make coughs more productive .
Warnings : Do not use this product if you are pregnant , attempting to become pregnant , or breast - feeding .
Do not take this product for persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema , or where cough is accompaied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor : Ask a doctor before use if you have a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) , diabetes , been taking any medications .
Stop Use : Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists more than one week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persisient headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If you are taking any medications , consult a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of Reach of Children : Keep out of the reach of children .
Overdosage : In case of overdose , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Add image transcription here ... [ MULTIMEDIA ]
