Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or highter and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , octyldodecyl neopentanoate , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , emulsifying wax NF , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , dimethicone , triethanolamine , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , propylparaben , carbomer , disodium EDTA claims This product is not manufactured or distributed by the Neutrogena Corporation , distributor of Oil Free Moisture .
Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , Inc . , St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts principal display panel mountain falls * Compare to Neutrogena fragrance free dermatologist tested wo n't clog pores SPF 15 oil - free moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN 4 . 8 FL OZ ( 141 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
