Label display NDC : 51655 - 151 - 52 MFG : 0093 - 5852 - 05 Escitalopram 20 mg 30 tablets Rx only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains : escitalopram oxalate , USP equivalent to 20 mg escitalopram Dosage : See package insert Store at 6877 degrees F . Store in a tight , light - resistant container ( See USP ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Cipla Ltd , Kurkumbh , India Mfg for : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Sellersville , PA 18960 Lot # : Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indications and usage Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) indicated for : Acute and Maintenance Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder ( MDD ) in adults and adolescents aged 12 to 17 years Acute Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder ( GAD ) in adults Contraindications Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs : Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram .
Do not use escitalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders .
In addition , do not start escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue .
Pimozide : Do not use concomitantly .
Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients Warnings and Precautions Clinical Worsening / Suicide Risk : Monitor for clinical worsening , suicidality and unusual change in behavior , especially during the initial few months of therapy or at times of dose changes .
Serotonin Syndrome : Serotonin syndrome has been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs , including escitalopram , both when taken alone , but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents ( including triptans , tricyclic antidepressants , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , tryptophan , buspirone and St . John ’ s Wort ) .
If such symptoms occur , discontinue escitalopram and initiate supportive treatment .
If concomitant use of escitalopram with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram : A gradual reduction in dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible .
Seizures : Prescribe with care in patients with a history of seizure .
Activation of Mania / Hypomania : Use cautiously in patients with a history of mania .
Hyponatremia : Can occur in association with SIADH ( 5 . 6 ) .
Abnormal Bleeding : Use caution in concomitant use with NSAIDs , aspirin , warfarin or other drugs that affect coagulation .
Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance : Use caution when operating machinery .
Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness : Use caution in patients with diseases or conditions that produce altered metabolism or hemodynamic responses
