Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 09 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , is a sulfone indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
After the skin is gently washed and patted dry , apply approximately a pea - sized amount of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , in a thin layer to the entire face once daily .
In addition , a thin layer may be applied to other affected areas once daily .
Rub in Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , gently and completely .
If there is no improvement after 12 weeks , treatment with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % should be reassessed .
• Apply once daily ( 2 ) .
• Apply approximately a pea - sized amount of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , in a thin layer to the entire face .
A thin layer can also be applied to other affected areas ( 2 ) .
• If there is no improvement after 12 weeks , treatment with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % should be reassessed ( 2 ) .
• For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel , 7 . 5 % .
Each gram of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % contains 75 mg of dapsone in an off - white to yellow gel with suspended particles .
Gel , 7 . 5 % ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported .
Discontinue Dapsone Gel if signs of methemoglobinemia occur ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hemolysis : Some patients with Glucose - 6 - phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency using topical dapsone developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis ( 5 . 1 ) ( 8 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 Hematological Effects Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia , with resultant hospitalization , have been reported postmarketing in association with twice daily dapsone gel , 5 % , treatment .
Patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency or congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia are more susceptible to drug - induced methemoglobinemia .
Avoid use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in those patients with congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may be delayed some hours after exposure .
Initial signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia are characterized by a slate grey cyanosis seen in e . g . , buccal mucous membranes , lips , and nail beds .
Advise patients to discontinue Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % and seek immediate medical attention in the event of cyanosis .
Dapsone can cause elevated methemoglobin levels particularly in conjunction with methemoglobin - inducing agents [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Hemolysis Oral dapsone treatment has produced dose - related hemolysis and hemolytic anemia .
Individuals with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency are more prone to hemolysis with the use of certain drugs .
G6PD deficiency is most prevalent in populations of African , South Asian , Middle Eastern , and Mediterranean ancestry .
In clinical trials , there was no evidence of clinically relevant hemolysis or hemolytic anemia in subjects treated with topical dapsone .
Some subjects with G6PD deficiency using dapsone gel , 5 % , twice daily developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Discontinue Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , if signs and symptoms suggestive of hemolytic anemia occur .
Avoid use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in patients who are taking oral dapsone or antimalarial medications because of the potential for hemolytic reactions .
Combination of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , with trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) may increase the likelihood of hemolysis in patients with G6PD deficiency [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy ( motor loss and muscle weakness ) has been reported with oral dapsone treatment .
No events of peripheral neuropathy were observed in clinical trials with topical dapsone treatment .
5 . 3 Skin Reactions Skin reactions ( toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , morbilliform and scarlatiniform reactions , bullous and exfoliative dermatitis , erythema nodosum , and urticaria ) have been reported with oral dapsone treatment .
These types of skin reactions were not observed in clinical trials with topical dapsone treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common ( incidence ≥ 0 . 9 % ) adverse reactions are application site dryness and pruritus ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , call Almirall at 1 - 866 - 665 - 2782 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 2161 subjects were treated with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , for 12 weeks in 2 controlled clinical trials .
The population ranged in age from 12 to 63 years , was 56 % female , and 58 % Caucasian .
Adverse drug reactions that were reported in at least 0 . 9 % of subjects treated with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % appear in Table 1 below .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in at Least 0 . 9 % of Subjects with Acne Vulgaris in 12 - week Controlled Clinical Trials Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ( N = 2161 ) Vehicle ( N = 2175 ) Application Site Dryness 24 ( 1 . 1 % ) 21 ( 1 . 0 % ) Application Site Pruritus 20 ( 0 . 9 % ) 11 ( 0 . 5 % ) 6 . 2 Experience with Oral Use of Dapsone Although not observed in the clinical trials with topical dapsone , serious adverse reactions have been reported with oral use of dapsone , including agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , peripheral neuropathy ( motor loss and muscle weakness ) , and skin reactions ( toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , morbilliform and scarlatiniform reactions , bullous and exfoliative dermatitis , erythema nodosum , and urticaria ) .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of topical dapsone : methemoglobinemia , rash ( including erythematous rash , application site rash ) and swelling of face ( including lip swelling , eye swelling ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % .
• Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) increases the systemic level of dapsone and its metabolites ( 7 . 1 ) .
• Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration ( 7 . 2 ) .
7 . 1 Trimethoprim - Sulfamethoxazole A drug - drug interaction study evaluated the effect of the use of dapsone gel , 5 % in combination with double strength ( 160 mg / 800 mg ) trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) .
During co - administration , systemic levels of TMP and SMX were essentially unchanged , however , levels of dapsone and its metabolites increased in the presence of TMP / SMX .
The systemic exposure from Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % is expected to be about 1 % of that from the 100 mg oral dose , even when co - administered with TMP / SMX .
7 . 2 Topical Benzoyl Peroxide Topical application of dapsone gel followed by benzoyl peroxide in patients with acne vulgaris may result in a temporary local yellow or orange discoloration of the skin and facial hair .
7 . 3 Drug Interactions with Oral Dapsone Certain concomitant medications ( such as rifampin , anticonvulsants , St . John ’ s wort ) may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine , a metabolite of dapsone associated with hemolysis .
With oral dapsone treatment , folic acid antagonists such as pyrimethamine have been noted to possibly increase the likelihood of hematologic reactions .
7 . 4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides , acetaminophen , acetanilide , aniline dyes , benzocaine , chloroquine , dapsone , naphthalene , nitrates and nitrites , nitrofurantoin , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , pamaquine , paraaminosalicylic acid , phenacetin , phenobarbital , phenytoin , primaquine , and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
The systemic absorption of dapsone in humans following topical application is low relative to oral dapsone administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , oral doses of dapsone administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis that resulted in systemic exposures more than 400 times the systemic exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , resulted in embryocidal effects .
When orally administered to rats from the onset of organogenesis through the end of lactation at systemic exposures approximately 500 times the exposure at the MRHD , dapsone resulted in increased stillbirths and decreased pup weight [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Dapsone has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rats and rabbits when administered orally daily to females during organogenesis at dosages of 75 mg / kg / day and 150 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These dosages resulted in systemic exposures that represented approximately 1407 times [ rats ] and 425 times [ rabbits ] the systemic exposure observed in human females as a result of use of the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons .
These effects were probably secondary to maternal toxicity .
Dapsone was assessed for effects on perinatal / postnatal pup development and postnatal maternal behavior and function in a study in which dapsone was orally administered to female rats daily beginning on the seventh day of gestation and continuing until the twenty - seventh day postpartum .
Maternal toxicity ( decreased body weight and food consumption ) and developmental effects ( increase in stillborn pups and decreased pup weight ) were seen at a dapsone dose of 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 563 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) .
No effects were observed on the viability , physical development , behavior , learning ability , or reproductive function of surviving pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of topical dapsone in breastmilk , the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Orally administered dapsone appears in human milk and could result in hemolytic anemia and hyperbilirubinemia especially in infants with G6PD deficiency .
Systemic absorption of dapsone following topical application is low relative to oral dapsone administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris have been established in patients 9 years of age and older .
Use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in patients 9 to 11 years of age for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled clinical trials in 1066 subjects 12 years of age and older and with additional pharmacokinetic and safety data in pediatric subjects 9 to 11 years of age from an open label study of 100 subjects with acne [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The safety profile for Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in clinical trials was similar to the vehicle control group .
Safety and effectiveness of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 9 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
8 . 6 Glucose - 6 - phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) Deficiency Individuals with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency may be more prone to methemoglobinemia and hemolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dapsone Gel , 5 % and vehicle were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , cross - over design clinical study of 64 subjects with G6PD deficiency and acne vulgaris .
Subjects were Black ( 88 % ) , Asian ( 6 % ) , Hispanic ( 2 % ) or of other racial origin ( 5 % ) .
Blood samples were taken at Baseline , Week 2 , and Week 12 during both vehicle and Dapsone Gel , 5 % treatment periods .
Some of these subjects developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis , but there was no evidence of clinically significant hemolytic anemia in this study [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , contains dapsone , a sulfone , in an aqueous gel base for topical dermatologic use .
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % is an off - white to yellow gel with suspended particles .
Chemically , dapsone has an empirical formula of C12H12N2O2S .
It is a white or slightly yellow - white , crystalline powder that has a molecular weight of 248 . 30 .
Dapsone ’ s chemical name is 4 - [ ( 4 - aminobenzene ) sulfonyl ] aniline and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , contains 75 mg of dapsone , USP , in a gel of diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , methylparaben , acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , isohexadecane , polysorbate 80 , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of dapsone gel in treating acne vulgaris is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a pharmacokinetic study , male and female subjects 16 years of age or older with acne vulgaris ( N = 19 ) applied 2 grams of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % to the face , upper chest , upper back and shoulders once daily for 28 days .
Steady state for dapsone was reached within 7 days of dosing .
On Day 28 , the mean dapsone maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve from 0 to 24 hours post dose ( AUC0 - 24 h ) were 13 . 0 ± 6 . 8 ng / mL and 282 ± 146 ng ∙ h / mL , respectively .
The systemic exposure from Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % is expected to be about 1 % of that from a 100 mg oral dose .
Long - term safety studies were not conducted with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , however , in a long - term clinical study of dapsone gel , 5 % treatment ( twice daily ) , periodic blood samples were collected up to 12 months to determine systemic exposure of dapsone and its metabolites in approximately 500 subjects .
Based on the measurable dapsone concentrations from 408 subjects ( M = 192 , F = 216 ) , obtained at Month 3 , neither gender nor race appeared to affect the pharmacokinetics of dapsone .
Similarly , dapsone exposures were approximately the same between the age groups of 12 - 15 years ( N = 155 ) and those greater than or equal to 16 years ( N = 253 ) .
There was no evidence of increasing systemic exposure to dapsone over the study year in these subjects .
In an open label safety and pharmacokinetic study in pediatric subjects 9 to 11 years of age with acne vulgaris , a subset of subjects ( N = 16 ) received once daily topical application of approximately 2 grams of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , to the entire face , shoulders , upper chest and upper back for 8 days .
On Day 8 , the systemic concentrations were at or near steady state and the mean ± SD systemic concentration of dapsone at 10 hours post dose was 20 ± 12 . 5 ng / mL .
12 . 4 Microbiology In Vivo Activity : No microbiology or immunology studies were conducted during Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % clinical studies .
Drug Resistance : No dapsone resistance studies were conducted during dapsone gel clinical studies therefore there are no data available as to whether dapsone treatment may have resulted in decreased susceptibility of Propionibacterium acnes , an organism associated with acne , or to other antimicrobials that may be used to treat acne .
Therapeutic resistance to dapsone has been reported for Mycobacterium leprae , when patients have been treated with oral dapsone .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dapsone was not carcinogenic to rats when orally administered to females for 92 weeks or males for 100 weeks at dose levels up to 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 340 times the systemic exposure observed in humans as a result of use of the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) .
No evidence of potential to induce carcinogenicity was observed in a dermal study in which dapsone gel was topically applied to Tg . AC transgenic mice for approximately 26 weeks .
Dapsone concentrations of 3 % , 5 % , and 10 % were evaluated ; 3 % material was judged to be the maximum tolerated dosage .
Dapsone was negative in a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , and was negative in a micronucleus assay conducted in mice .
Dapsone was positive ( clastogenic ) in a chromosome aberration assay conducted with Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells .
The effects of dapsone on fertility and general reproductive performance were assessed in male and female rats following oral dosing .
Dapsone reduced sperm motility at dosages of 3 mg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 22 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) when administered daily beginning 63 days prior to mating and continuing through the mating period .
The mean numbers of embryo implantations and viable embryos were significantly reduced in untreated females mated with males that had been dosed at 12 mg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 187 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) , presumably due to reduced numbers or effectiveness of sperm , indicating impairment of fertility .
When administered to female rats at a dosage of 75 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1407 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) for 15 days prior to mating and for 17 days thereafter , dapsone reduced the mean number of implantations , increased the mean early resorption rate , and reduced the mean litter size .
These effects probably were secondary to maternal toxicity .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of once daily use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , was assessed in two 12 - week multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials .
Efficacy was assessed in a total of 4340 subjects 12 years of age and older .
The majority of the subjects had moderate acne vulgaris , 20 to 50 inflammatory and 30 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions at baseline , and were randomized to receive either Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % or vehicle .
Treatment response was defined at Week 12 as the proportion of subjects who were rated “ none ” or “ minimal ” with at least a two - grade improvement from baseline on the Global Acne Assessment Score ( GAAS ) , and mean absolute change from baseline in both inflammatory and non - inflammatory lesion counts .
A GAAS score of “ none ” corresponded to no evidence of facial acne vulgaris .
A GAAS score of “ minimal ” corresponded to a few non - inflammatory lesions ( comedones ) being present and to a few inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules ) that may be present .
The GAAS success rate , mean reduction , and percent reduction in acne lesion counts from baseline after 12 weeks of treatment are presented in the following table .
Table 2 .
Clinical Efficacy of Dapsone Gel at Week 12 in Subjects with Acne Vulgaris Trial 1 Trial 2 Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ( N = 1044 ) Vehicle ( N = 1058 ) Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ( N = 1118 ) Vehicle ( N = 1120 ) Global Acne Assessment Score GAAS Success ( Score 0 or 1 ) 30 % 21 % 30 % 21 % Inflammatory Lesions Mean absolute reduction 16 . 1 14 . 3 15 . 6 14 . 0 Mean percent reduction 56 % 49 % 54 % 48 % Non - inflammatory Lesions Mean absolute reduction 20 . 7 18 . 0 20 . 8 18 . 7 Mean percent reduction 45 % 39 % 46 % 41 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , is an off - white to yellow gel with suspended particles .
It is supplied in an airless pump containing a polypropylene bottle with a high density polyethylene piston .
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , is supplied in the following sizes : NDC 51672 - 5307 - 3 60 gram pump NDC 51672 - 5307 - 8 90 gram pump Storage : Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hematological Effects • Inform patients that methemoglobinemia can occur with topical dapsone treatment .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they develop cyanosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients who have G6PD deficiency that hemolytic anemia may occur with topical dapsone treatment .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions • Advise patients to apply Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , once daily to the entire face [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % is for topical use only .
• Do not apply Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % to eyes , mouth , or mucous membranes .
Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 TARO is a registered trademark of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Made in the U . S . A . Revised : 11 / 2019 141107 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Patient Information Dapsone ( dap ' sone ) Gel , 7 . 5 % Important : For use on skin only ( topical use ) .
Do not use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ?
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat acne in people 9 years and older .
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , has not been studied in children under 9 years of age .
Before you use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( G6PD ) • have higher than normal levels of methemoglobin in your blood ( methemoglobinemia ) • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially , tell your doctor if you are using acne medicines that contain benzoyl peroxide .
Use of benzoyl peroxide with Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % at the same time may cause your skin or facial hair to temporarily turn yellow or orange at the site of application .
How do I use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ?
• Use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Apply Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % one time a day .
• Gently wash and pat dry the areas of your skin where you will apply Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % .
• Apply a pea - sized amount of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in a thin layer to the entire face .
A thin layer may also be applied to other affected areas as instructed by your doctor .
• Rub Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % in gently and completely .
• Wash your hands after applying Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % .
• If your acne does not get better after using Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % for 12 weeks , talk to your doctor about continuing treatment .
What are the possible side effects of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ?
Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % may cause serious side effects , including : • Decrease of oxygen in your blood caused by a certain type of abnormal red blood cell ( methemoglobinemia ) .
Stop using Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % and get medical help right away if your lips , nail beds , or the inside of your mouth turns grey or blue .
• Breakdown of red blood cells ( hemolytic anemia ) .
Some people with G6PD deficiency using Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % may develop mild hemolytic anemia .
Stop using Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % and tell your doctor right away if you get any of the following signs and symptoms : • back pain • dark brown urine • shortness of breath • fever • tiredness or weakness • yellow or pale skin The most common side effects of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % include dryness and itching of the skin being treated .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ?
• Store Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % , at room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Protect Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % from freezing .
Keep Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Dapsone Gel , 7 . 5 % ?
Active ingredient : dapsone Inactive ingredients : diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , methylparaben , acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , isohexadecane , polysorbate 80 , and purified water .
Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 TARO is a registered trademark of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Made in the U . S . A . For more information , call 1 - 866 - 665 - 2782 Revised : 11 / 2019 141107 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 51672 - 5307 - 3 - 60 g carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 51672 - 5307 - 3 - 60 g pump Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 51672 - 5307 - 8 - 90 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 151672 - 5307 - 8 - 90 g Pump Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
