Active ingridients ( in each gram ) Benzocaine 200 mg Purpose Oral Anesthetic Use For oral mucosal use only , as directed by dentist .
For the temporary relief of pain due to minor dental procedures .
Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood . This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use on patients with a history of allergies to local anesthetics such as benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly . If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persist or worsen , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush with water .
If pregnant or breast feeding , consult a doctor before use .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply only amount needed to the oral mucosa to prevent or relieve pain • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • Store at 59 - 86ºF ( 15 - 30ºC ) .
• Protect from freezing .
Inactive ingredients flavoring , PEG 3350 , PEG 400 , sucralose .
May contain D & C Red # 33 , FD & C Red # 40 , D & C Green # 5 , FD & C Yellow # 5 as a color additive .
Questions or comments ?
800 - 621 - 2178 www . safcodental . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Jar Label SAFCO SensiCaineTM Extra Topical Anesthetic Gel Contains 20 % Benzocaine Bubble Gum Flavor For Professional Use Only 1 oz .
( 34 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
