Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 13 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 % Oxybenzone 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , triethanolamine , VP / eicosene copolymer , stearic acid , sorbitan isostearate , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , benzyl alcohol , dimethicone , tocopherol , chlorphenesin , polyglyceryl - 3 distearate , fragrance , carbomer , disodium EDTA Disclaimer May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces This product is not being compared to Coppertone Kids Sunscreen SPF 50 for any other purpose and this product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , dstributor of Coppertone KIDS Sunscreen Lotion SPF 50 Adverse reactions DISTRIBUTED BY DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE , GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed !
( 888 ) 309 - 9030 704 . 000 / 704 AB Principal Display Panel DG body Compare to the SPF of Coppertone Kids Sunscreen for kids Broad Spectrum SPF 50 • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) • UVA / UVB Sunscreen SPF 50 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
