DESCRIPTION Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP is a sterile , aqueous solution buffered to approximately pH 7 . 0 and formulated for ophthalmic use .
Each mL contains : Active : gentamicin sulfate , USP ( equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin ) .
Inactives : dibasic sodium phosphate , sodium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate , purified water .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 6 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic obtained from cultures of Micromonospora purpurea .
It is a mixture of the sulfate salts of gentamicin C1 , C2 , C1a and C2a .
All three components appear to have similar antimicrobial activity .
Gentamicin sulfate occurs as a white to buff powder and is soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Gentamicin sulfate is active in vitro against many strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , acute meibomianitis , and dacryocystitis , caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of topical antibiotics may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to gentamicin may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
If irritation or hypersensitivity to any component of the drug develops , the patient should discontinue use of this preparation and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Information for Patients To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to the eye , eyelid or any surface .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no published carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility studies on gentamicin .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to be non - mutagenic .
Pregnancy Gentamicin has been shown to depress body weights , kidney weights and median glomerular counts in newborn rats when administered systemically to pregnant rats in daily doses approximately 500 times the maximum recommended ophthalmic human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Gentamicin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with gentamicin ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are ocular burning and irritation upon drug instillation , non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival epithelial defects and conjunctival hyperemia .
Other adverse reactions which have occurred rarely are allergic reactions , thrombocytopenic purpura and hallucinations .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour .
HOW SUPPLIED Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 3 % is supplied sterile in a white LDPE plastic bottle , with a white LLDPE extended controlled drop tip and white polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC 24208 - 580 - 60 - 5 mL NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage : Store between 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to excessive heat .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA © 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : September 2022 9116006 ( Folded ) 9116106 ( Flat ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24208 - 580 - 60 Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % ( Sterile ) FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Rx only 5 mL BAUSCH + LOMB 9531302 AB07707 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
