Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • • a cold • • hay fever • • upper respiratory allergies • • promotes nasal and sinus drainage • • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • • helps clear nasal passages ; shrinks swollen nasal membranes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • • do not use more than directed • • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• • children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor Shake well before use : Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thump at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the protective cap on tip .
Other information • • store at room temperature • • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , camphor , edetate disodium , eucalyptol , menthol , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel NDC # 63868 - 699 - 22 QUALITY CHOICE ® * Compare to Active Ingredient in Mucinex ® Full Force Nasal Spray 12 Hour Relief Nasal Spray Nasal Decongestant Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % Fast Relief of Sinus Pressure & Nasal Congestion 3 / 4 FL OZ ( 22 mL ) 100 % QC SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Distributed by C . D . M . A . Inc . © 43157 W 9 Mile Rd Novi , MI 48375 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , the distributor of Mucinex ® Full Force ™ Nasal Spray .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
