Active Ingredients : 1 .
Octinoxate ( Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate ) 7 . 5 % 2 .
Octisalate ( Ethylhexyl Salicylate ) 5 . 0 % 3 .
Butyl Methoxydibenzoylmethane ( Parsol 1789 , Avobenzone ) 2 . 0 % 4 .
Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Inactive Ingredients : Water ( Aqua ) , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride ( and ) Linoleic acid ( and ) Glycine soja ( Soybean ) sterols ( and ) phospholepids , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride ( and ) Diacetyl Boldine ( Lumiskin ) , Kojic acid , Glycyrrhiza glabba ( Licorice ) root extract , Ubiquinone ( Coenzyme Q10 ) , Olea europea ( Olive ) leaf extract , Mushroom extract ( Tricholoma matsutake singer ) - enzyme - alcohol , Archtostaphylos uva ursi ( Bearberry ) leaf extract , Morus alba ( Mulberry ) leaf extract , Saccharomyces / Xylinum Black Tea Ferment - Glycerin - Hydroxyethylcellulose ( Kombuchka ) , Dimethicone , Brassica compestris / Aleuritis fordi oil copolymer , Sodium Hyaluronate Crosspolymer , Phenoxyethanol and Caprylyl Glycol and Ethylhexyl Glycerin and Hexylene Glycol , Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein and Hydrolyzed Wheat Starch , Limnanthes alba ( Meadowfoam ) seed oil , PEG - 60 Maracuja glycerides , Biosaccharide Gum - 1 , Portulac oleracea extract , Xanthan gum , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Disodium EDTA .
Other information on back of the tube : ( Claims ) A Daily , super hydrating UVA / UVB broad spectrum moisturizer for the hands .
Diminishes age spots with a blend of natural skin lightening agents , protects against harmful effects of the sun and builds up collagen to restore youthful skin .
Contains eoenzyme Q10 and other anti - oxidants to fight against free radicals and environmental danmage .
Indications : Signs of aging skin , age spots , dry , dehydrated skin .
Directions : Apply daily for maximum protection and moisture .
Reapply throughout the day and while exposed to the sun .
Reapply while exposed to Sun .
Distributor : Image International Palm Beach , FL 33411 USA Image of the Product : AGELESS Total Rejuvenating Hand Creme [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
