Active Ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % w / v Purpose Acne treatment Use for the treatment of acne Warnings - For external use only Do not use if you are sensitive to Benzoyl Peroxide or have very sensitive skin .
This product may cause irritation .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If occurs flush thoroughly .
Keep away from lips and mouth .
Avoid excessive sun exposure .
Skin irritation may occur such as redness , burning , itching or swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using less frequently or in a smaller dose .
Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
DIRECTIONS • Before each use , wash skin with mild soap and allow to dry .
• Apply generously to pimples , brown spots , and aging skin .
Use three to four times daily for one to three months for best results .
• Use twice daily to prevent acne from reappearing .
• Do not use with other acne creams , skin peels and treatments , or exfoliants .
• If bothersome irritation , drying , or skin peeling should occur , reduce frequency of use .
Inactive ingredients : Alkyl Benzoate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Benzyl Alcohol , Butylparaben , Diazolidinyl Urea , Ethyl Alcohol , Ethylparaben , Lactic Acid , Methyparaben , Niacinamide , Phenoxyethanol , Propylparaben , Sodium Metabisulfite , Sorbic Acid , Tocopheryl ( Vitamin E ) , Water , Zinc Oxide Other Information • Sensitivity test : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the stated directions .
• Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
AUGUSTUS BIOMED All - in - One Acne Cream + Moisturizer with Vitamin E Antibacterial and Pore Cleansing With Benzoyl Peroxide Evens Skin Tone Mild exfoliant Dark spot and fine wrinkle inhibitor Moisturizes and Protects Vitamin E + Niacinamide to nourish Aloe to soothe Zinc Oxide to promote healing Unscented No perfumes or dyes 100 ml / 3 . 4 fl oz Meets TSA carry - on guidelines [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
