Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol ( 21 . 6 % ) , sorbitol , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , zinc chloride , sodium benzoate , sucralose , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distribted by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , owner of the trademarks LISTERINE , ULTRACLEAN and EVERFRESH Adverse Reactions Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 2015 CVS pharmacy www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . and foreign components CVS Quality Money Back Quarantee DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - M - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 principal display panel CVS pharmacy Compare to the active ingredients in LISTERINE ULTRACLEAN with EVERFRESH Technology TARTAR CONTROL PLUS ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH ANTIGINGIVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE • Kills germs that cause plaque , gingivitis & bad breath • Controls tartar , which can discolor teeth • Leaves a long - lasting clean feeling • Iceberg Mint Sealed with printed neckband for your protection .
Do not use if broken or missing .
1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
