RECENT MAJOR CHANGES 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexrazoxane for injection is indicated for reducing the incidence and severity of cardiomyopathy associated with doxorubicin administration in women with metastatic breast cancer who have received a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg / m2 and who will continue to receive doxorubicin therapy to maintain tumor control .
Do not use with the initiation of doxorubicin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Dexrazoxane for injection is a cytoprotective agent indicated for reducing the incidence and severity of cardiomyopathy associated with doxorubicin administration in women with metastatic breast cancer who have received a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg / m2 and who will continue to receive doxorubicin therapy to maintain tumor control .
Do not use dexrazoxane for injection with doxorubicin initiation .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Reconstitute vial contents and dilute before use .
( 2 . 3 ) • Administer Dexrazoxane for injection by intravenous infusion over 15 minutes .
• DO NOT ADMINISTER VIA AN INTRAVENOUS PUSH .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • The recommended dosage ratio of dexrazoxane for injection to doxorubicin is 10 : 1 ( e . g . , 500 mg / m2 dexrazoxane for injection to 50 mg / m2 doxorubicin ) .
Do not administer doxorubicin before dexrazoxane for injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • Reduce dose by 50 % for patients with creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 7 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose Administer dexrazoxane for injection via intravenous infusion over 15 minutes .
DO NOT ADMINISTER VIA AN INTRAVENOUS PUSH .
The recommended dosage ratio of dexrazoxane for injection to doxorubicin is 10 : 1 ( e . g . , 500 mg / m2 dexrazoxane for injection to 50 mg / m2 doxorubicin ) .
Do not administer doxorubicin before dexrazoxane for injection .
Administer doxorubicin within 30 minutes after the completion of dexrazoxane for injection infusion .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce dexrazoxane for injection dosage in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance values less than 40 mL / min ) by 50 % ( dexrazoxane for injection to doxorubicin ratio reduced to 5 : 1 ; such as 250 mg / m2 dexrazoxane for injection to 50 mg / m2 doxorubicin ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Since a doxorubicin dose reduction is recommended in the presence of hyperbilirubinemia , reduce the dexrazoxane for injection dosage proportionately ( maintaining the 10 : 1 ratio ) in patients with hepatic impairment .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration Preparation and Handling of Infusion Solution Reconstitute dexrazoxane for injection with Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Reconstitute with 25 mL for a dexrazoxane for injection 250 mg vial and 50 mL for a dexrazoxane for injection 500 mg vial to give a concentration of 10 mg / mL .
Dilute the reconstituted solution further with Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP to a concentration of 1 . 3 to 3 . 0 mg / mL in intravenous infusion bags for intravenous infusion .
Following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , dexrazoxane for injection is stable for 30 minutes at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 3 hours from the time of reconstitution when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
The pH of the resultant solution is 1 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
DISCARD UNUSED SOLUTIONS .
The diluted infusion solutions are stable for one hour at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 4 hours when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
The infusion solutions have a pH of 3 . 5 to 5 . 5 .
DISCARD UNUSED SOLUTIONS .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Solutions containing a precipitate should be discarded .
Use caution when handling and preparing the reconstituted solution .
The use of gloves is recommended .
If dexrazoxane for injection powder or solutions contact the skin or mucosae , wash exposed area immediately and thoroughly with soap and water .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures . 1 Administration Do not mix dexrazoxane for injection with other drugs .
Administer the final diluted solution of dexrazoxane for injection by intravenous infusion over 15 minutes before the administration of doxorubicin .
DO NOT ADMINISTER VIA AN INTRAVENOUS PUSH .
Administer doxorubicin within 30 minutes after the completion of dexrazoxane for injection infusion .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Dexrazoxane for injection ( dexrazoxane for injection ) is available in 250 mg or 500 mg single dose vials as sterile , pyrogen - free lyophilizates .
250 mg or 500 mg single dose vials as sterile , pyrogen - free lyophilizates .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use dexrazoxane for injection with non - anthracycline chemotherapy regimens .
Dexrazoxane for injection should not be used with non - anthracycline chemotherapy regimens .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Myelosuppression : Dexrazoxane for injection may increase the myelosuppresive effects of chemotherapeutic agents .
Perform hematological monitoring .
( 5 . 1 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential of the potential hazard to the fetus .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression Dexrazoxane for injection may add to the myelosuppression caused by chemotherapeutic agents .
Obtain a complete blood count prior to and during each course of therapy , and administer dexrazoxane for injection and chemotherapy only when adequate hematologic parameters are met .
5 . 2 Concomitant Chemotherapy Only use dexrazoxane for injection in those patients who have received a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg / m2 and are continuing with doxorubicin therapy .
Do not use with chemotherapy initiation as dexrazoxane for injection may interfere with the antitumor activity of the chemotherapy regimen .
In a trial conducted in patients with metastatic breast cancer who were treated with fluorouracil , doxorubicin , and cyclophosphamide ( FAC ) with or without dexrazoxane for injection starting with their first cycle of FAC therapy , patients who were randomized to receive dexrazoxane for injection had a lower response rate ( 48 % vs . 63 % ) and shorter time to progression than patients who were randomized to receive placebo .
5 . 3 Cardiac Toxicity Treatment with dexrazoxane for injection does not completely eliminate the risk of anthracycline - induced cardiac toxicity .
Monitor cardiac function before and periodically during therapy to assess left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) .
In general , if test results indicate deterioration in cardiac function associated with doxorubicin , the benefit of continued therapy should be carefully evaluated against the risk of producing irreversible cardiac damage .
5 . 4 Secondary Malignancies Secondary malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) have been reported in studies of pediatric patients who have received dexrazoxane for injection in combination with chemotherapy .
Dexrazoxane for injection is not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
Some adult patients who received dexrazoxane for injection in combination with anti - cancer agents known to be carcinogenic have also developed secondary malignancies , including AML and MDS .
Razoxane is the racemic mixture , of which dexrazoxane is the S ( + ) - enantiomer .
Secondary malignancies ( primarily acute myeloid leukemia ) have been reported in patients treated chronically with oral razoxane .
In these patients , the total cumulative dose of razoxane ranged from 26 to 480 grams and the duration of treatment was from 42 to 319 weeks .
One case of T - cell lymphoma , one case of B - cell lymphoma , and six to eight cases of cutaneous basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with razoxane .
Long - term administration of razoxane to rodents was associated with the development of malignancies [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Dexrazoxane for injection can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Dexrazoxane administration during the period of organogenesis resulted in maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity and teratogenicity in rats and rabbits at doses significantly lower than the clinically recommended dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant and to use highly effective contraception during treatment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical studies , dexrazoxane for injection was administered to patients also receiving chemotherapeutic agents for cancer .
Pain on injection was observed more frequently in patients receiving dexrazoxane for injection versus placebo .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The adverse reaction profile described in this section was identified from randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind studies in patients with metastatic breast cancer who received the combination of the FAC chemotherapy regimen with or without dexrazoxane for injection .
The dose of doxorubicin was 50 mg / m2 in each of these trials .
Treatment was administered every three weeks until disease progression or cardiac toxicity .
Patients in clinical trials who received FAC with dexrazoxane for injection experienced more severe leukopenia , granulocytopenia , and thrombocytopenia than patients receiving FAC without dexrazoxane for injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Table 1 below lists the incidence of adverse reactions for patients receiving FAC with either dexrazoxane for injection or placebo in the breast cancer studies .
Adverse experiences occurring during courses 1 through 6 are displayed for patients receiving dexrazoxane for injection or placebo with FAC beginning with their first course of therapy ( columns 1 and 3 , respectively ) .
Adverse experiences occurring at course 7 and beyond for patients who received placebo with FAC during the first six courses and who then received either dexrazoxane for injection or placebo with FAC are also displayed ( columns 2 and 4 , respectively ) .
The adverse reactions listed below in Table 1 demonstrate that the frequency of adverse reaction “ Pain on Injection ” has been greater for dexrazoxane for injection arm , as compared to placebo .
Table 1 Adverse Reaction Percentage ( % ) of Breast Cancer Patients With Adverse Reaction FAC + Dexrazoxane FAC + Placebo Courses 1 to 6 N = 413 Courses ≥ 7 N = 102 Courses 1 to 6 N = 458 Courses ≥ 7 N = 99 Alopecia 94 100 97 98 Nausea 77 51 84 60 Vomiting 59 42 72 49 Fatigue / Malaise 61 48 58 55 Anorexia 42 27 47 38 Stomatitis 34 26 41 28 Fever 34 22 29 18 Infection 23 19 18 21 Diarrhea 21 14 24 7 Pain on Injection 12 13 3 0 Sepsis 17 12 14 9 Neurotoxicity 17 10 13 5 Streaking / Erythema 5 4 4 2 Phlebitis 6 3 3 5 Esophagitis 6 3 7 4 Dysphagia 8 0 10 5 Hemorrhage 2 3 2 1 Extravasation 1 3 1 2 Urticaria 2 2 2 0 Recall Skin Reaction 1 1 2 0 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interactions have been identified [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Discontinue drug or nursing .
( 8 . 3 ) See 17 for Patient Counseling Information 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects . Pregnancy Category D Risk Summary Dexrazoxane for injection can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Dexrazoxane administration resulted in maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity and teratogenicity in rats and rabbits at doses significantly lower than the clinically recommended dose .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Animal Data Dexrazoxane resulted in maternal toxicity in rats at doses of ≥ 2 mg / kg ( 1 / 40 the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) and embryotoxicity and teratogenicity at 8 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 10 the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) when given daily to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis .
Teratogenic effects in the rat included imperforate anus , microphthalmia , and anophthalmia .
In offspring allowed to develop to maturity , fertility was impaired in the male and female rats treated in utero during organogenesis at 8 mg / kg .
In rabbits , doses of ≥ 5 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 10 the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) daily during the period of organogenesis caused maternal toxicity and doses of 20 mg / kg ( 1 / 2 the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) were embryotoxic and teratogenic .
Teratogenic effects in the rabbit included several skeletal malformations such as short tail , rib and thoracic malformations , and soft tissue variations including subcutaneous , eye and cardiac hemorrhagic areas , as well as agenesis of the gallbladder and of the intermediate lobe of the lung .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether dexrazoxane or its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from dexrazoxane , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of dexrazoxane in pediatric patients have not been established [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of dexrazoxane for injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Females of Reproductive Potential Contraception Dexrazoxane for injection can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception during treatment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Greater exposure to dexrazoxane may occur in patients with compromised renal function .
Reduce the dexrazoxane for injection dose by 50 % in patients with creatinine clearance values < 40 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data on overdosage in the cardioprotective trials ; the maximum dose administered during the cardioprotective trials was 1000 mg / m2 every three weeks .
Disposition studies with dexrazoxane for injection have not been conducted in cancer patients undergoing dialysis , but retention of a significant dose fraction ( > 0 . 4 ) of the unchanged drug in the plasma pool , minimal tissue partitioning or binding , and availability of greater than 90 % of the systemic drug levels in the unbound form suggest that it could be removed using conventional peritoneal or hemodialysis .
There is no known antidote for dexrazoxane .
Instances of suspected overdose should be managed with good supportive care until resolution of myelosuppression and related conditions is complete .
Management of overdose should include treatment of infections , fluid regulation , and maintenance of nutritional requirements .
11 DESCRIPTION Dexrazoxane for Injection , a cardioprotective agent for use in conjunction with doxorubicin , is a sterile , pyrogen - free lyophilizate intended for intravenous administration .
Chemically , dexrazoxane is ( + ) - ( S ) - 4 , 4 ’ - Propylenedi - 2 , 6 - piperazinedione .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C11H16N4O4 M . W . 268 . 27 Dexrazoxane , an intracellular chelating agent , is a derivative of EDTA .
Dexrazoxane is a whitish crystalline powder that melts at 191 ° to 197 ° C .
It is sparingly soluble in water and 0 . 1 N HCl , slightly soluble in ethanol and methanol , and practically insoluble in nonpolar organic solvents .
The pKa is 2 . 1 .
Dexrazoxane has an octanol / water partition coefficient of 0 . 025 and degrades rapidly above a pH of 7 . 0 .
Each 250 mg vial contains dexrazoxane hydrochloride equivalent to 250 mg dexrazoxane .
Hydrochloric Acid , NF is added for pH adjustment .
When reconstituted as directed with 25 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , each mL contains : 10 mg dexrazoxane .
The pH of the resultant solution is 1 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
Each 500 mg vial contains dexrazoxane hydrochloride equivalent to 500 mg dexrazoxane .
Hydrochloric Acid , NF is added for pH adjustment .
When reconstituted as directed with 50 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , each mL contains : 10 mg dexrazoxane .
The pH of the resultant solution is 1 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
The reconstituted dexrazoxane for injection solutions prepared from Sterile Water for Injection , USP , are intended for further dilution with Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP , for rapid intravenous drip infusion .
DO NOT ADMINISTER VIA AN INTRAVENOUS PUSH [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which dexrazoxane for injection exerts its cytoprotective activity is not fully understood .
Dexrazoxane is a cyclic derivative of EDTA that penetrates cell membranes .
Results of laboratory studies suggest that dexrazoxane is converted intracellularly to a ring - opened chelating agent that interferes with iron - mediated free radical generation thought to be responsible , in part , for anthracycline - induced cardiomyopathy .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of dexrazoxane have been studied in advanced cancer patients with normal renal and hepatic function .
The pharmacokinetics of dexrazoxane can be adequately described by a two - compartment open model with first - order elimination .
Dexrazoxane has been administered as a 15 minute infusion over a dose range of 60 to 900 mg / m2 with 60 mg / m2 of doxorubicin , and at a fixed dose of 500 mg / m2 with 50 mg / m2 doxorubicin .
The disposition kinetics of dexrazoxane are dose - independent , as shown by linear relationship between the area under plasma concentration - time curves and administered doses ranging from 60 to 900 mg / m2 .
The mean peak plasma concentration of dexrazoxane was 36 . 5 mcg / mL at 15 - minute after intravenous administration of 500 mg / m2 dose of dexrazoxane for injection over 15 to 30 minutes prior to the 50 mg / m2 doxorubicin dose .
The important pharmacokinetic parameters of dexrazoxane are summarized in Table 2 : Table 2 : SUMMARY OF MEAN ( % CVa ) DEXRAZOXANE PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS AT A DOSAGE RATIO OF 10 : 1 OF DEXRAZOXANE FOR INJECTION : DOXORUBICIN Dose Dose Number of Elimination Plasma Renal bVolume of Doxorubicin ( mg / m2 ) Dexrazoxane ( mg / m2 ) Subjects Half - Life ( h ) Clearance ( L / h / m2 ) Clearance ( L / h / m2 ) Distribution ( L / m2 ) 50 500 10 2 . 5 ( 16 ) 7 . 88 ( 18 ) 3 . 35 ( 36 ) 22 . 4 ( 22 ) 60 600 5 2 . 1 ( 29 ) 6 . 25 ( 31 ) — 22 . 0 ( 55 ) a Coefficient of variation b Steady - state volume of distribution Distribution Following a rapid distributive phase ( 0 . 2 to 0 . 3 hours ) , dexrazoxane reaches post - distributive equilibrium within two to four hours .
The estimated mean steady - state volume of distribution of dexrazoxane is 22 . 4 L / m2 after 500 mg / m2 of dexrazoxane for injection dose followed by 50 mg / m2 of doxorubicin , suggesting distribution throughout total body water ( 25 L / m2 ) .
In vitro studies have shown that dexrazoxane is not bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism Qualitative metabolism studies with dexrazoxane have confirmed the presence of unchanged drug , a diacid - diamide cleavage product , and two monoacid - monoamide ring products in the urine of animals and man .
The metabolite levels were not measured in the pharmacokinetic studies .
Excretion Urinary excretion plays an important role in the elimination of dexrazoxane .
Forty - two percent of a 500 mg / m2 dose of dexrazoxane for injection was excreted in the urine .
Renal clearance averages 3 . 35 L / h / m2 after the 500 mg / m2 dexrazoxane for injection dose followed by 50 mg / m2 of doxorubicin .
Specific Populations Pediatric Pharmacokinetics following dexrazoxane for injection administration have not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Effect of Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of dexrazoxane were assessed following a single 15 - minute IV infusion of 150 mg / m2 of dexrazoxane for injection .
Dexrazoxane clearance was reduced in subjects with renal dysfunction .
Compared with controls , the mean AUC0 - inf value was two - fold greater in subjects with moderate ( CLCR 30 - 50 mL / min ) to severe ( CLCR < 30 mL / min ) renal dysfunction .
Modeling demonstrated that equivalent exposure ( AUC - inf ) could be achieved if dosing were reduced by 50 % in subjects with creatinine clearance values < 40 mL / min compared with control subjects ( CLCR > 80 mL / min ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Effect of Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetics following dexrazoxane for injection administration have not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment .
The dexrazoxane for injection dose is dependent upon the dose of doxorubicin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions There was no significant change in the pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin ( 50 mg / m2 ) and its predominant metabolite , doxorubicinol , in the presence of dexrazoxane ( 500 mg / m2 ) in a crossover study in cancer patients .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility No long - term carcinogenicity studies have been carried out with dexrazoxane in animals .
Nevertheless , a study by the National Cancer Institute has reported that long - term dosing with razoxane ( the racemic mixture of dexrazoxane , ICRF - 187 , and its enantiomer ICRF - 186 ) is associated with the development of malignancies in rats and possibly in mice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Dexrazoxane was not mutagenic in the bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test , but was found to be clastogenic to human lymphocytes in vitro and to mouse bone marrow erythrocytes in vivo ( micronucleus test ) .
Dexrazoxane for injection has the potential to impair fertility in male patients based on effects in repeat - dose toxicology studies .
Testicular atrophy was seen with dexrazoxane administration at doses as low as 30 mg / kg weekly for 6 weeks in rats ( 1 / 3 the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) and as low as 20 mg / kg weekly for 13 weeks in dogs ( approximately equal to the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The ability of dexrazoxane for injection to prevent / reduce the incidence and severity of doxorubicin - induced cardiomyopathy was evaluated in three prospectively randomized placebo - controlled studies .
In these studies , patients were treated with a doxorubicin - containing regimen and either dexrazoxane for injection or placebo starting with the first course of chemotherapy .
There was no restriction on the cumulative dose of doxorubicin .
Cardiac function was assessed by measurement of the LVEF , utilizing resting multigated nuclear medicine ( MUGA ) scans , and by clinical evaluations .
Patients receiving dexrazoxane for injection had significantly smaller mean decreases from baseline in LVEF and lower incidences of congestive heart failure than the control group ; however , in the largest study , patients with advanced breast cancer receiving FAC with dexrazoxane for injection had a lower response rate ( 48 % vs . 63 % ) and a shorter time to progression than patients who received FAC versus placebo .
In the clinical trials , patients who were initially randomized to receive placebo were allowed to receive dexrazoxane for injection after a cumulative dose of doxorubicin above 300 mg / m2 .
Retrospective historical analyses showed that the risk of experiencing a cardiac event ( see Table 3 for definition ) at a cumulative dose of doxorubicin above 300 mg / m2 was greater in the patients who did not receive dexrazoxane for injection beginning with their seventh course of FAC than in the patients who did receive dexrazoxane for injection ( HR = 13 . 08 ; 95 % CI : 3 . 72 , 46 . 03 ; p < 0 . 001 ) .
Overall , 3 % of patients treated with dexrazoxane for injection developed CHF compared with 22 % of patients not receiving dexrazoxane for injection .
Table 3 : Definition of Cardiac Events : • Development of congestive heart failure , defined as having two or more of the following : • Cardiomegaly by X - ray • Basilar Rales • S3 Gallop • Paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and / or orthopnea and / or significant dyspnea on exertion .
• Decline from baseline in LVEF by ≥ 10 % and to below the lower limit of normal for the institution .
• Decline in LVEF by ≥ 20 % from baseline value .
• Decline in LVEF to ≥ 5 % below lower limit of normal for the institution .
Figure 1 shows the number of patients still on treatment at increasing cumulative doses .
Figure 1 Cumulative Number of Patients On Treatment FAC vs . FAC / Dexrazoxane for Injection Patients Patients Receiving at Least Seven Courses of Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES 1 .
“ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Dexrazoxane for Injection is available in the following strengths as sterile , pyrogen - free lyophilizates .
NDC 0143 - 9247 - 01 250 mg single dose vial with a gray flip - top seal , packaged in single vial packs .
NDC 0143 - 9248 - 01 500 mg single dose vial with a blue flip - top seal , packaged in single vial packs .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Myelosuppression Treatment with dexrazoxane for injection is associated with leukopenia , neutropenia , and thrombocytopenia .
Perform hematological monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Counsel patients on pregnancy planning and prevention .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential that dexrazoxane for injection can cause fetal harm and to use highly effective contraception during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
Manufactured By : THYMOORGAN PHARMAZIE GmbH , Schiffgraben 23 , 38690 Goslar , Germany Manufactured for : West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised December 2016 127 . 207 . 025 / 00 Vial Label 250 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9247 - 01 Rx only Dexrazoxane for Injection 250 mg / vial For Intravenous Use Only STERILE , PYROGEN - FREE , LYOPHILIZATE Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE 250 mg Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial Label 500 mg NDC 0143 - 9248 - 01 Rx only Dexrazoxane for Injection 500 mg / vial For Intravenous Use Only STERILE , PYROGEN - FREE , LYOPHILIZATE Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE 500 mg Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
