FOR ORAL USE ONLY DESCRIPTION Iodine 5 g , potassium iodide 10 g , in enough purified water to make 100 ml .
INDICATIONS Strong Iodine Solution , containing 5 percent of iodine and 10 percent of potassium iodide , is employed in the prophylaxis of simple and colloid goiters and in the treatment of exophthalmic goiter .
It can be used alone as a preoperative preparation but is now most commonly used concomitantly with propylthiouracil and other antithyroid drugs .
When used with these drugs , Strong Iodine Solution produces involution of the hyperplastic gland thus making a less triable and vascular gland for thyroidectomy .
In addition , it has an additive antithyroid action that helps make the patient enthyroid faster than if the antithyroid drugs were used alone .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of iodides may be contraindicated in patients with tuberculosis because it is believed they may cause a breakdown of healing lesions .
The use of iodides is contraindicated in patients with iododerma , laryngeal edema , and swelling of salivary glands or increased salivation upon previous exposure to iodides .
Strong Iodine Solution is ineffective in the treatment of postoperative thyroid crisis .
PRECAUTIONS Iodine therapy does not completely control the manifestations of hyperthyroidism and after a variable period of time , the beneficial effects wear off .
With continued administration of the drug , the hyperthyroidism may return in its initial intensity or become even more severe than it was at first .
Measurements of the protein - bound iodine or of the uptake of radioiodine are rendered useless if iodine is given .
WARNINGS Prolonged therapy may cause iodism .
USE IN PREGNANCY : The drug readily crosses the placental barrier and may affect the fetus if used during pregnancy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ingestion of large quantities of Strong Iodine Solution may cause abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
Average doses may cause skin rash .
DOSAGE Strong Iodine Solution is for oral use only .
The usual dosage of Strong Iodine Solution is 2 to 6 drops ( 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 ml ) three times daily taken in water after meals for two or three weeks prior to operation .
In thyroid crisis the dosage is 1 ml three times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Bottles of 14 ml , amber glass with lined plastic closures .
Accompanying each bottle is a glass dropper which should be used when the solution is ready to be dispensed to minimize any loss of free iodine through the bulb of the dropper .
STORAGE Store at room temperature Rx only SAFECOR HEALTH , LLC WOBURN , MA 01801 230 - 02 Rev 05 / 2019 ——— Principal Display Panel ——— Do Not Use in Eyes NDC 48433 - 230 - 15 Rx only SAFECOR HEALTH Strong Iodine Solution U . S . P . ( Lugol ' s Solution ) NET CONTENTS 14 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
