Description : Tetracycline is a yellow , odorless , crystalline powder .
Tetracycline is stable in air but exposure to strong sunlight causes it to darken .
Its potency is affected in solutions of pH below 2 and is rapidly destroyed by alkali hydroxide solutions .
Tetracycline is very slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in dilute acid and in alkali hydroxide solutions , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and in ether .
Each capsule , for oral administration , contains tetracycline hydrochloride 250 mg or 500 mg .
Inactive Ingredients : Lactose , magnesium stearate , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The 250 mg capsule shell contains D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
It may also contain benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , D & C Red No . 22 , edentate calcium disodium , methylparaben , propylparaben , silicon dioxide , and sodium propionate .
The imprinting ink for the 250 mg capsule contains pharmaceutical glaze , and synthetic black iron oxide .
It may also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 ( aluminum lake ) , dimethylpolysiloxane , distilled water , ethylene glycol monoethyl ether , FD & C Blue No . 1 ( aluminum lake ) , FD & C Blue No . 2 ( aluminum lake ) , FD & C Red No . 40 ( aluminum lake ) , lecithin , n - butyl alcohol , propylene alcohol , and SDA - 3 A alcohol .
The 500 mg capsule shell contains D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
It may also contain benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , edetate calcium disodium , FD & C yellow no . 6 , methylparaben , propylparaben , silicon dioxide , and sodium propionate .
The imprinting ink for the 500 mg capsule contains titanium dioxide .
It may also contain dimethyl polysiloxane , distilled water , ethyl alcohol , ethylene glycol monoethyl ether , pharmaceutical glaze , pharmaceutical shellac , and soya lecithin .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H24N2O8 Molecular Weight : 444 . 44 The chemical name for tetracycline hydrochloride is 4 - ( Dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 6 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - pentahydroxy - 6 - methyl 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology : Tetracyclines are readily absorbed and are bound to plasma protein in varying degrees .
They are concentrated by the liver in the bile and excreted in the urine and feces at high concentrations in a biologically active form .
Microbiology : Tetracyclines are primarily bacteriostatic and exert their antimicrobial effect by the inhibition of protein synthesis .
Tetracycline is active against a wide range of gram - negative and gram - positive organisms .
The drugs in the tetracycline class have closely similar antimicrobial spectra , and cross - resistance among them is common .
While invitro studies have demonstrated the susceptibility of most strains of the following microorganisms , clinical efficacy for infections other than those included in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section has not been documented .
Gram - Negative Bacteria : Neisseria gonorrhea Haemophilus ducreyi Haemophilus influenzae Yersinia pestis ( formerly Pasteurellapestis ) Francisella tularensis ( formerly Pasterurella tularensis ) Vibrio cholera ( formerly Vibrio comma ) Bartonella bacilliformis Brucella species Because many strains of the following groups of gram - negative microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility testing are recommended : Escherichia coli Klebsiella species Enterobacter aerogenes Shigella species Acinetobacter species ( formerly Mima species and Herellea species ) Bacteroides species Gram - Positive Bacteria : Because many strains of the following groups of gram - positive microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracycline , culture and susceptibility testing are recommended .
Up to 44 percent of strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and 74 percent of Streptococcus faecalis have been found to be resistant to tetracycline drugs .
Therefore , tetracyclines should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organisms have been demonstrated to be susceptible .
Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus pneumoniae Enterococcus group ( Streptococcusfaecalis and Streptococcusfaecium ) Alpha - hemolytic Streptococci ( viridans group ) Other Microorganisms : Chlamydia psittaci Chlamydia trachomatis Ureaplasma urealyticum Borrelia recurrentis Treponema pallidum Treponema pertenue Clostridia species Fusobacterium fusiforme Actinomyces species Bacillus anthraxis Propionibacterium acnes Entamoeba species Balantidium coli Susceptibility Testing : A tetracycline disk may be used to determine microbial susceptibility to drugs in the tetracycline class .
If the Kirby - Bauer method of disk susceptibility testing is used , a 30 mcg tetracycline disk should give a zone of at least 19 mm when tested against a tetracycline susceptible bacterial strain .
Microorganisms may be considered susceptible if the MIC ( minimum inhibitory concentration ) is not more than 4 . 0 mcg / mL and intermediate if the MIC is 4 . 0 to 12 . 5 mcg / mL .
Indications and Usage : Tetracycline is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : • Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcuspyogenes , Streptococcuspneumoniae and Hemophilusinfluenzae .
Note : Tetracycline should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible .
• Lower respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcuspyogenes , Streptococcuspneumoniae , Mycoplasmapneumoniae ( Eaton agent , and Klebsiellasp . )
• Skin and soft tissue infections caused by Streptococcuspyogenes , Staphylococcusaureaus .
( Tetracyclines are not the drugs of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infections . )
• Infections caused by rickettsia including Rocky Mountain spotted fever , typhus group infections , Q fever , rickettsialpox .
• Psittacosis of ornithosis caused by Chlamydiapsittaci .
• Infections caused by Chlamydiatrachomatis such as uncomplicated urethral , endocervical , or rectal infections , inclusion conjunctivitis , trachoma and lymphogranuloma venereum .
• Granuloma inquinale caused by Calymmatobacteriumgranulomatis .
• Relapsing fever caused by Borrelia sp .
• Bartonellosis caused by Bartonellabacilli - formis .
• Chancroid caused by Hemophilus ducreyi .
• Tularemia caused by Francisella tularensis .
• Plaque caused by Yersiniapestis .
• Cholera caused by Vibriocholerae .
• Brucellosis caused by Brucella species ( tetracycline may be used in conjunction with an aminoglycoside ) .
• Infections due to Campylobacterfetus .
• As adjunctive therapy in intestinal amebiasis caused by Entamoebahistolytica .
• Urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli , Klebsiella , etc .
• Other infections caused by susceptible gram - negative organisms such as E . coli , Enterobacteraerogenes , Shigella sp . , Acinetobacter sp . , Klebsiella sp . , and Bacteroides sp .
• In severe acne , adjunctive therapy with tetracycline may be useful .
When penicillin is contraindicated , tetracyclines are alternative drugs in the treatment of the following infections : • syphilis and yaws caused by Treponema pallidumand pertenue , respectively , • Vincent ’ s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme , • infections caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , • anthrax caused by Bacillus anthracis , • infections due to Listeria monocytogenes , • actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces species , • infections due to Clostridium species .
Contraindications : This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines .
Warnings : THE USE OF DRUGS OF THE TETRACYCLINE CLASS DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT ( LAST HALF OF PREGNANCY , INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD TO THE AGE OF 8 YEARS ) MAY CAUSE PERMANENT DISCOLORATION OF THE TEETH ( YELLOW - GRAY - BROWN ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drugs but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
TETRACYCLINE DRUGS , THEREFORE , SHOULD NOT BE USED IN THIS AGE GROUP UNLESS OTHER DRUGS ARE NOT LIKELY TO BE EFFECTIVE OR ARE CONTRAINDICATED .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every six hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has also been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Tetracycline drugs should not be used during pregnancy unless absolutely necessary .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulation of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , lower than usual total doses are indicated , and , if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet lights should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs .
Treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema .
The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired renal function , higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia and acidosis .
Precautions : General : As with other antibiotics , use of this drug may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , the antibiotic should be discontinued and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
All infections due to Group A betahemolytic streptococci should be treated for at least ten days .
Bulging fontanels in infants and benign intracranial hypertension in adults have been reported in individuals receiving tetracyclines .
These conditions disappeared when the drug was discontinued .
Incision and drainage or other surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy , when indicated .
Laboratory Tests : In venereal diseases , when coexistent syphilis is suspected , dark field examinations should be done before treatment is started and the blood serology repeated monthly for at least four months .
In long - term therapy , periodic laboratory evaluation of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal and hepatic studies , should be performed .
Drug Interactions : Since bacteriostatic drug may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline in conjunction with penicillin or other bactericidal antibiotics .
Because the tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and preparations containing iron , zinc , or sodium bicarbonate .
Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies are currently being conducted to determine whether tetracycline hydrochloride has carcinogenic potential .
Some related antibiotics ( oxytetracycline , minocycline ) have shown evidence of oncogenic activity in rats .
In two in vitro mammalian cell assay systems ( L 51784 y mouse lymphoma and Chinese hamster lung cells ) , there was evidence of mutagenicity at tetracycline hydrochloride concentrations of 60 and 10 µg / mL , respectively .
Tetracycline hydrochloride had no effect on fertility when administered in the diet to male and female rats at a daily intake of 25 times the human dose .
Pregnancy Category : Teratogenic Effects : Category D : ( See WARNINGS . )
Nonteratogenic Effects : ( See WARNINGS . )
Pregnant women with renal disease may be more prone to develop tetracycline - associated liver failure .
Labor and Delivery : The effect of tetracyclines on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers : Because of potential for serious adverse reaction in nursing infants from tetracyclines , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use : See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Adverse Reactions : Gastrointestinal : Anorexia , nausea , epigastric distress , vomiting , diarrhea , glossitis , black hairy tongue , dysphagia , enterocolitis , and inflammatory lesions ( with monilial overgrowth ) in the anogenital region .
Rare instances of esophagitis and esophageal ulceration have been reported in patients receiving particularly the capsule and also the tablet forms of tetracyclines .
Most of the patients were reported to have taken medication immediately before going to bed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Teeth : Permanent discoloration of teeth may be caused during tooth development .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : Maculopapular and erythrematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported but is uncommon .
Onycholysis and discoloration of the nails have been reported rarely .
Photosensitivity is discussed in WARNINGS .
Renal Toxicity : Rise in BUN has been reported and is apparently dose related .
Liver : Hepatotoxicity and liver failure have been observed in patients receiving large doses of tetracycline and tetracyclinetreated patients with renal impairment .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Urticaria , angioneurotic edema , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid purpura , pericarditis , exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus , and serum sickness - like reactions , as fever , rash , and arthralgia .
Blood : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , neutropenia and eosinophilia have been reported .
Other : Bulging fontanels in infants and intracranial pressure in adults ( see PRECAUTIONS — General ) .
When given over prolonged periods , tetracyclines have been reported to produce brown - black microscopic discoloration of thyroid glands .
No abnormalities of thyroid function studies are known to occur .
OVERDOSAGE : In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures .
Tetracycline is not dialyzable .
Dosage and Administration : Adults : Usual daily dose , 1 gram as 500 mg b . i . d . or 250 mg q . i . d . Higher doses such as 500 mg q . i . d . may be required for severe infections or for those infections which do not respond to the smaller doses .
Children above eight years of age : Usual daily dose , 10 to 20 mg / lb ( 25 to 50 mg / kg ) body weight divided in four equal doses .
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided .
For the treatment of brucellosis , 500 mg tetracycline q . i . d . for three weeks should be accompanied by streptomycin , 1 gram intramuscularly twice daily the first week and once daily the second week .
For the treatment of syphilis in patients allergic to penicillin , the following dosage of tetracycline is recommended : early syphilis ( less than one year ’ s duration ) — 500 mg q . i . d . for 15 days .
Syphilis of more than one year ’ s duration ( except neurosyphilis ) — 500 q . i . d . for 30 days .
For treatment of gonorrhea , the recommended dose is 500 mg by mouth four times a day for seven days .
In cases of moderate to severe acne which , in the judgement of the clinician , require long - term treatment , the recommended initial dosage is 1 gram daily in divided doses .
When improvement is noted , dosage should be gradually reduced to maintenance levels ranging from 125 mg to 500 mg daily .
In some patients it may be possible to maintain adequate remission of lesions with alternate day or intermittent therapy .
Tetracycline therapy of acne should augment the other standard measures known to be of value .
Duration of long - term treatment which can safely be recommended has not been established ( see WARNINGS and Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
Concomitant Therapy : Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and preparations containing iron , zinc or sodium bicarbonate .
Food and some dairy products also interfere with absorption .
In the treatment of streptococcal infections , a therapeutic dose of tetracycline should be administered for at least ten days .
In patients with renal impairment ( see WARNINGS ) total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and / or by extending time intervals between doses .
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydiatrachomatis : 500 mg , by mouth , four times a day for at least seven days .
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid with the capsule formulation of tetracycline is recommended to wash down the drug and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
How Supplied : Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules , USP are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0877 - 2 500 mg 60 Capsules in a Blister Pack Yellow Opaque Body 0591 - 2475 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY : Hyperpigmentation of the thyroid has been produced by members of the tetracycline class in the following species : in rats by oxytetracycline , doxycycline , tetracycline PO4 and methacycline ; in minipigs by doxycycline , minocycline , tetracycline PO4 and methacycline ; in dogs by doxycycline and minocycline ; in monkeys by minocycline .
Minocycline , tetracycline PO4 , methacycline , doxycycline , tetracycline base , oxytetracycline HCl and tetracycline HCl were goitrogenic in rats fed a low iodine diet .
This goitrogenic effect was accomplished by high radioactive iodine uptake .
Administration of minocycline also produced a large goiter with high radioiodine uptake in rats fed a relatively high iodine diet .
Treatment of various animal species with this class of drugs has also resulted in the induction of thyroid hyperplasia in the following : in rats and dogs ( minocycline ) , in chickens chlortetracycline ) and in rats and mice ( oxytetracycline ) .
Adrenal gland hyperplasia has been observed in goats and rats treated with oxytetracycline .
Manufactured By : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed By : Watson Pharma , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States PACKAGE LABEL Label Image for 53808 - 0877 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
