Active ingredient Purpose Magnesium Sulfate USP ( Epsom Salts ) External use Soaking solution Internal Use Saline Laxative [ MULTIMEDIA ] Uses External : Relieves pain from minor sprains and bruises Internal : Relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion or overdose , seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop use and consult a doctor if : As a soaking solution - you experience redness , irritation , swelling , or infection As a laxative - you have no bowel movements within six hours or experience rectal bleeding - these could be signs of a serious condition - you need a laxative for more than a week Warnings : Laxative - Do not give to children under six years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
- For occasional use only .
Serious side effects from prolonged use or overdose may occur .
Do not take this product except under the advice and supervision of a physician if you : - Have kidney disease - Are taking prescription medication - Have a magnesium restricted diet Ask a doctor before if you have As a soaking solution - redness or swelling present - evidence of an infection - diabetes - hot and warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on advice of a physician As a laxative - Stomach pain - Nausea - Kidney disease - A sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks If pregnant or breast feeding , consult a physician before use Other information Dissolve before use Directions - Do not exceed more than 2 doses per day , if neccessary repeat dosage in 4 hours For External use As a soaking solution : pour 2 cups of Epsom Salts under warm , running bath water .
Soak for 20 minutes for to relieve sore , tired muscles .
As a warm compress : Dissolve 1 cup of Epsom Salts in 1 quart of warm water .
Using a towel , apply solution to the affected area for 15 - 30 minutes to reduce pain and and swelling .
Repeat as needed .
For internal use As a laxative 2 - 4 level teaspoons dissolved in a full glass ( 8 oz ) of water .
adults and children 12 years and older children 6 to 12 years of age 1 - 2 level teaspoons dissolved in a full glass ( 8 oz ) of water .
not recommended for children under 6 years of age This product contains no inactive ingredients [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dr . Teal ' s Therapeutic solutions Epsom Salt Soaking Solution Magnesium Sulfate USP Sooths aches , pains , sprains and stings Helps relieve muscle tension Made in U . S . A . with pure Epsom Salt Net Wt .
2 . 72 Kg 6 lbs [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
