Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • cosmetics • soaps • jewelry • insect bites • psoriasis • eczema • detergents • seborrheic dermatitis • external genital and anal itching • poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age • do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product • children under 12 years of age with external anal itching : consult a doctor Other information • store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) • lot number and expiration date : See crimp of tube or box You may report serious side effects to : 130 Vintage Drive , Huntsville , AL 35811 .
Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , diazolidinyl urea , isopropyl palmitate , mineral oil / lanolin alcohol , polysorbate 40 , propylene glycol , propylene glycol monostearate , purified water , sorbic acid , sorbitan monopalmitate , stearyl alcohol , xanthan gum Made in the USA for Qualitest Pharmaceuticals Huntsville , AL 35811 Rev . 5 / 15 R6 8265556 0534 HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0232 NDC : 50090 - 0232 - 0 28 . 4 g in a TUBE hydrocortisone [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
