STERILE Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each mL contains : Active : tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) .
Inactives : boric acid , sodium chloride , sodium sulfate , tyloxapol , sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid to adjust pH ( 7 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) , and water for injection .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ( 0 . 1 mg ) .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : Molecular Weight = 467 . 52 Molecular Formula : C18H37N5O9 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : O - { 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy - β - D - gluco - pyranosyl ( 1 → 4 ) } - O - { 2 , 6 - diamino 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexo - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) } - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : In Vitro Data : In Vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of tobramycin ophthalmic solution .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If a sensitivity reaction to tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS : General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinueuse and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies in 3 types of animals at doses up to 33 times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from tobramycin , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin .
Postmarketing Experience : Additional adverse reactions identified from postmarketing use include anaphylactic reaction , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with systemic aminoglycosides : Neurotoxicity , ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have occurred in patients receiving systemic aminoglycoside therapy .
Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness in patients with known or suspected neuromuscular disorders , such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson ' s disease , because of their potential effect on neuromuscular function .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : In mild to moderate disease , instill 1 or 2 drops into the affected eye ( s ) every 4 hours .
In severe infections , instill 2 drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
HOW SUPPLIED : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is supplied as a sterile solution in white low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) plastic dropper bottle : NDC 13985 - 604 - 05 5 mL STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from excessive heat . "
apexa ™ Manufactured by : Akorn Lake Forest , IL 60045 Distributed by : MWI Boise , ID 83705 " MWTM00N Rev . 09 / 21 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 13985 - 604 - 05 Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Apexa logo STERILE Rx Only AP 704006 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 13985 - 604 - 05 Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % STERILE Rx Only Apexa logo AP 704006 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
