[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Repaglinide tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Limitation of Use : Repaglinide tablets should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus or for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis .
Repaglinide tablets are a glinide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Limitation of Use : Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The recommended starting dose is 0 . 5 mg orally before each meal if HbA1c is less than 8 % ; and 1 or 2 mg orally before each meal if HbA1c is 8 % or greater .
( 2 . 1 ) • • The recommended dose range is 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg before meals , with a maximum daily dose of 16 mg .
( 2 . 1 ) • • The patient ’ s dose should be doubled up to 4 mg with each meal until satisfactory glycemic control is achieved .
At least one week should elapse to assess response after each dose adjustment .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Instruct patients to skip the dose of repaglinide tablets if a meal is skipped .
In patients who experience hypoglycemia , the dose of repaglinide tablets should be reduced .
( 2 . 1 ; 5 . 1 ) • • Instruct patients to take repaglinide tablets within 30 minutes before meals .
( 2 . 1 ) • • In patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl = 20 – 40 mL / min ) , recommended starting dose is 0 . 5 mg orally before each meal .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Dose modifications are required when used concomitantly with some medications .
( 2 . 3 , 7 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage and Administration The recommended starting dose for patients whose HbA1c is less than 8 % is 0 . 5 mg orally before each meal .
For patients whose HbA1c is 8 % or greater the starting dose is 1 or 2 mg orally before each meal .
The recommended dose range is 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg before meals , with a maximum daily dose of 16 mg .
The patient ’ s dose should be doubled up to 4 mg with each meal until satisfactory glycemic control is achieved .
At least one week should elapse to assess response after each dose adjustment .
Instruct patients to take repaglinide tablets within 30 minutes before meals .
Repaglinide tablets may be dosed 2 , 3 , or 4 times a day in response to changes in the patient ’ s meal pattern .
In patients who skip meals , instruct patients to skip the scheduled dose of repaglinide tablets to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
In patients who experience hypoglycemia , the dose of repaglinide tablets should be reduced [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Patients with Severe Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl = 20 – 40 mL / min ) initiate repaglinide tablets 0 . 5 mg orally before each meal .
Gradually titrate the dose , if needed to achieve glycemic control .
2 . 3 Dose Modifications for Drug Interactions Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inducers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Concomitant use with gemfibrozil is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use of repaglinide tablets with clopidogrel .
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , initiate repaglinide tablets at 0 . 5 mg before each meal and do not exceed a total daily dose of 4 mg [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Do not exceed a total daily dose of 6 mg of repaglinide tablets in patients receiving cyclosporine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • • 0 . 05 mg tablets ( white , round tablets with beveled edges on both sides , debossed with “ P240 ” on one side ) • • 1 mg tablets ( yellow , round tablets with beveled edges on both sides , debossed with “ P241 ” on one side ) • • 2 mg tablets ( pink , round tablets with beveled edges on both sides , debossed with “ P242 ” on one side ) Tablets : 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , 2 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Repaglinide tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • • Concomitant use of gemfibrozil [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • • Known hypersensitivity to repaglinide or any inactive ingredients • • Concomitant use with gemfibrozil ( 4 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to repaglinide or any inactive ingredients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypoglycemia : Repaglinide tablets may cause hypoglycemia .
Skip the scheduled dose of repaglinide tablets if a meal is skipped to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
Reduce the dose of repaglinide tablets if hypoglycemia occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Serious Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions with Concomitant NPH - insulin : Repaglinide tablets are not indicated for use in combination with NPH - insulin .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Macrovascular outcomes : There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with repaglinide tablets .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypoglycemia All glinides , including repaglinide tablets , can cause hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening , or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content ) , changes in level of physical activity , changes to co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , and concomitant use with other antidiabetic agents .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Patients should administer repaglinide tablets before meals and be instructed to skip the dose of repaglinide tablets if a meal is skipped .
In patients who experience hypoglycemia , the dose of repaglinide tablets should be reduced [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions with Concomitant Use with NPH - insulin Across seven controlled trials , there were six serious adverse events of myocardial ischemia in patients treated with repaglinide tablets plus NPH - insulin from two studies , and one event in patients using insulin formulations alone from another study [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Repaglinide tablets are not indicated for use in combination with NPH - insulin .
5 . 3 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with repaglinide tablets .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reaction is also described elsewhere in the labeling : Hypoglycemia [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( 5 % or greater incidence ) among patients treated with repaglinide tablets were : hypoglycemia , upper respiratory infection , headache , sinusitis , arthralgia , nausea , diarrhea , and back pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying designs , the adverse reaction rates reported in one clinical trial may not be easily compared to those rates reported in another clinical trial , and may not reflect the rates actually observed in clinical practice .
Repaglinide tablets have been administered to 2931 individuals during clinical trials .
Approximately 1500 of these individuals with type 2 diabetes have been treated for at least 3 months , 1000 for at least 6 months , and 800 for at least 1 year .
The majority of these individuals ( 1228 ) received repaglinide tablets in one of five 1 - year , active - controlled trials .
Over one year , 13 % of repaglinide tablets patients were discontinued due to adverse reactions .
The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal were hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia , and related symptoms .
Table 1 lists the common adverse reactions for repaglinide tablets patients compared to placebo in trials 12 to 24 weeks duration .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions ( % ) occurring ≥ 2 % in Repaglinide Tablets Treated Patients from Pool of 12 to 24 Week Placebo Controlled Trials * Repaglinide Tablets N = 352 Placebo N = 108 Upper Respiratory Infection 16 8 Headache 11 10 Sinusitis 6 2 Arthralgia 6 3 Nausea 5 5 Diarrhea 5 2 Back Pain 5 4 Rhinitis 3 3 Constipation 3 2 Vomiting 3 3 Paresthesia 3 3 Chest pain 3 1 Bronchitis 2 1 Dyspepsia 2 2 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Tooth disorder 2 0 Allergy 2 0 * See trial descriptions in Clinical Trials ( 14 ) Hypoglycemia In clinical trials with repaglinide tablets , hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction .
Mild or moderate hypoglycemia occurred in 31 % of repaglinide tablet treated patients and 7 % of placebo treated patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ] ) .
Hypoglycemia was reported in 16 % of 1228 repaglinide tablet patients , 20 % of 417 glyburide patients , and 19 % of 81 glipizide patients in 1 - year controlled trials .
Of repaglinide tablet - treated patients with symptomatic hypoglycemia , none developed coma or required hospitalization .
In a 24 - week placebo controlled trial , patients who were naïve to oral hypoglycemic agent therapy and patients with a HbA1c below 8 % at baseline had a higher frequency of hypoglycemia .
Weight Gain There was no average gain in body weight when patients previously treated with oral hypoglycemic agents were switched to repaglinide tablets .
The average weight gain in patients treated with repaglinide tablets and not previously treated with sulfonylurea drugs was 3 . 3 % .
Cardiovascular Events The incidence of total serious cardiovascular adverse events , including ischemia , was higher for repaglinide tablets ( 51 / 1228 or 4 % ) than for sulfonylurea drugs ( 13 / 498 or 3 % ) in controlled comparator clinical trials .
Table 2 : Summary of Serious Cardiovascular Events in Trials Comparing Repaglinide Tablets to Sulfonylureas ( % of total patients with events ) Repaglinide Tablets SU * Total Exposed 1228 498 Serious CV Events 4 % 3 % Cardiac Ischemic Events 2 % 2 % Deaths due to CV Events 0 . 5 % 0 . 4 % * : glyburide and glipizide Seven controlled clinical trials included repaglinide tablet combination therapy with NPH - insulin ( n = 431 ) , insulin formulations alone ( n = 388 ) or other combinations ( sulfonylurea plus NPH - insulin or repaglinide tablets plus metformin ) ( n = 120 ) .
There were six serious adverse events of myocardial ischemia in patients treated with repaglinide tablets plus NPH - insulin from two studies , and one event in patients using insulin formulations alone from another study [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Combination Therapy with Thiazolidinediones Hypoglycemia During 24 - week treatment clinical trials of repaglinide tablets - rosiglitazone or repaglinide tablets - pioglitazone combination therapy ( a total of 250 patients in combination therapy ) , hypoglycemia ( blood glucose < 50 mg / dL ) occurred in 7 % of patients in combination therapy compared to 7 % for repaglinide tablets monotherapy , and 2 % for thiazolidinedione monotherapy .
Peripheral Edema and Heart Failure Peripheral edema was reported in 12 out of 250 ( 4 . 8 % ) repaglinide tablets - thiazolidinedione combination therapy patients and 3 out of 124 ( 2 . 4 % ) thiazolidinedione monotherapy patients , with no cases reported in these trials for repaglinide tablets monotherapy .
There were reports in 2 of 250 patients ( 0 . 8 % ) treated with repaglinide tablets - thiazolidinedione therapy of episodes of edema with congestive heart failure .
Both patients had a prior history of coronary artery disease and recovered after treatment with diuretic agents .
No comparable cases in the monotherapy treatment groups were reported .
Weight Gain Mean weight increases associated with combination , repaglinide tablets and pioglitazone therapy were 5 . 5 kg , 0 . 3 kg , and 2 . 0 kg respectively .
Mean weight increases associated with combination , repaglinide tablets and rosiglitazone therapy were 4 . 5 kg , 1 . 3 kg , and 3 . 3 kg respectively .
Infrequent Adverse Events ( < 1 % of Patients ) Less common adverse clinical or laboratory events observed in clinical trials included elevated liver enzymes , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and anaphylactoid reactions .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of repaglinide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Alopecia • • Hemolytic anemia • • Pancreatitis • • Stevens - Johnson Syndrome • • Severe hepatic dysfunction including jaundice and hepatitis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Repaglinide Tablets Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with repaglinide tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them .
Table 3 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Repaglinide Tablets Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact : Gemfibrozil significantly increased repaglinide exposures by 8 . 1 fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Intervention : Do not administer repaglinide tablets to patients receiving gemfibrozil [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Clopidogrel Clinical Impact : Clopidogrel increased repaglinide exposures by 3 . 9 - 5 . 1 fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Intervention : Avoid concomitant use of repaglinide tablets with clopidogrel .
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , initiate repaglinide tablets at 0 . 5 mg before each meal and do not exceed a total daily dose of 4 mg [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required during concomitant use .
Cyclosporine Clinical Impact : Cyclosporine increased low dose repaglinide exposures by 2 . 5 fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Intervention : Daily maximum repaglinide tablets dose should be limited to 6 mg , and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when repaglinide tablets is co - administered with cyclosporine .
CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors Intervention : Repaglinide tablet dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co - administered .
Examples : Drugs that are known to inhibit CYP3A4 include antifungal agents ( ketoconazole , itraconazole ) and antibacterial agents ( clarithromycin , erythromycin ) .
Drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C8 include trimethoprim , gemfibrozil , montelukast , deferasirox , and clopidiogrel .
CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 Inducers Intervention : Repaglinide tablet dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co - administered Examples : Drugs that induce the CYP3A4 and / or 2C8 enzyme systems include rifampin , barbiturates , and carbamezapine Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Intervention : Repaglinide tablet dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co - administered .
Examples : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents ( NSAIDs ) , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , propoxyphene , salicylates , somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of Repaglinide Tablets Intervention : Repaglinide tablet dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co - administered .
Examples : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , calcium channel antagonists , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when repaglinide tablets are co - administered with these drugs .
Examples : beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine • • Clopidogrel : Avoid concomitant use ; if used concomitantly initiate at 0 . 5 mg before each meal and limit total daily dose to 4 mg ( 7 ) • • Cyclosporine : Limit daily dose of repaglinide tablets to 6 mg and increase frequency of glucose monitoring when co - administered ( 7 ) • • CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia : Co - administration may require repaglinide tablet dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring ( 7 ) • • CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 Inducers and Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of Repaglinide tablets : Co - administration may require repaglinide tablet dose increases and increased frequency of glucose monitoring ( 7 ) • • Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when co - administered ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Repaglinide tablets are not recommended when breastfeeding ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited available data from case reports and case series with repaglinide tablets use in pregnant women have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Teratogenicity was not observed in rats and rabbits administered repaglinide during organogenesis at approximately 60 and 1 times the maximum daily clinical dose , based on body surface area .
No adverse developmental effects were observed in offspring of rats administered repaglinide during late gestation and lactation at approximately 4 times the maximum daily clinical dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Animal Data Repaglinide was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses 60 times ( rats ) and approximately 1 times ( rabbit ) clinical exposure ( on a mg / m2 basis ) when administered during the period of organogenesis .
Offspring of rat dams exposed to repaglinide at ≥ 22 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis during days 17 to 22 of gestation and during lactation were less viable and developed skeletal deformations consisting of shortening , thickening , and bending of the humerus during the postnatal period .
This effect was not seen at doses up to 4 times clinical exposure ( on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of repaglinide in human milk , the effects on the breastfeeding infant , or the effects on milk production .
The drug is present in animal milk .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for hypoglycemia in breastfed infants , repaglinide tablets are not recommended for use when breastfeeding .
Data In rat reproduction studies , measurable levels of repaglinide were detected in the breast milk of the dams and lowered blood glucose levels were observed in the pups .
Cross fostering studies indicated that skeletal changes [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] could be induced in control pups nursed by treated dams , although this occurred to a lesser degree than those pups treated in utero .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of 24 weeks or greater duration , 415 patients were over 65 years of age and no patients were greater than 75 years of age .
In one - year , active - controlled trials , no differences were seen in effectiveness or adverse events between these subjects and those less than 65 .
There was no increase in frequency or severity of hypoglycemia in older subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals to repaglinide tablet therapy cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Pharmacokinetic studies of repaglinide were conducted in patients with mild to moderate renal function impairment ( CrCl = 40 – 80 mL / min ) , and severe renal function impairment ( CrCl = 20 – 40 mL / min ) .
Initial dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild to moderate renal dysfunction .
However , patients with severe renal function impairment should initiate repaglinide tablet therapy with the 0 . 5 mg dose and be carefully titrated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Studies were not conducted in patients with creatinine clearances below 20 mL / min or patients with renal failure requiring hemodialysis .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment A single - dose study was conducted 12 patients with chronic liver disease .
Patients with moderate to severe impairment of liver function had higher and more prolonged serum concentrations .
Therefore , repaglinide tablets should be used cautiously in patients with impaired liver function .
Longer intervals between dose adjustments may be needed to allow full assessment of response .
10 OVERDOSAGE Severe hypoglycemic reactions with coma , seizure , or other neurological impairment may occur and constitute medical emergencies requiring immediate hospitalization .
Hypoglycemic symptoms without loss of consciousness or neurologic findings should be treated aggressively with oral glucose and adjustments in drug dosage and / or meal patterns .
Close monitoring may continue until the physician is assured that the patient is out of danger .
Patients should be closely monitored for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours , since hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
There is no evidence that repaglinide tablets are dialyzable using hemodialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Repaglinide Tablets , USP are an oral blood glucose - lowering drug of the glinide class .
Repaglinide , S ( + ) 2 - ethoxy - 4 ( 2 ( ( 3 - methyl - 1 - ( 2 - ( 1 - piperidinyl ) phenyl ) - butyl ) amino ) - 2 - oxoethyl ) benzoic acid , is chemically unrelated to the oral sulfonylurea insulin secretagogues .
Structural Formula of Repaglinide [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repaglinide is a white to off - white powder with molecular formula C27H36N2O4 and a molecular weight of 452 . 6 .
Repaglinide Tablets , USP contain 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg or 2 mg of repaglinide .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate , microcrystalline cellulose , corn starch , polacrilin potassium , povidone , glycerin , magnesium stearate , meglumine and poloxamer , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
The 1 mg and 2 mg tablets contain ferric oxides ( yellow and red , respectively ) as coloring agents .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Repaglinide lowers blood glucose levels by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas .
This action is dependent upon functioning beta ( ß ) cells in the pancreatic islets .
Insulin release is glucose - dependent and diminishes at low glucose concentrations .
Repaglinide closes ATP - dependent potassium channels in the ß - cell membrane by binding at characterizable sites .
This potassium channel blockade depolarizes the ß - cell , which leads to an opening of calcium channels .
The resulting increased calcium influx induces insulin secretion .
The ion channel mechanism is highly tissue selective with low affinity for heart and skeletal muscle .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics A four - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled dose - response trial was conducted in 138 patients with type 2 diabetes using doses ranging from 0 . 25 ( not an approved dose ) to 4 mg taken with each of three meals .
Repaglinide tablet therapy resulted in dose - proportional glucose lowering over the full dose range .
Plasma insulin levels increased after meals and reverted toward baseline before the next meal .
Most of the fasting blood glucose - lowering effect was demonstrated within 1 - 2 weeks .
In a double - blind , placebo - controlled , 3 - month dose titration study , repaglinide tablets or placebo doses for each patient were increased weekly from 0 . 25 mg ( not an approved dose ) through 0 . 5 , 1 , and 2 mg , to a maximum of 4 mg , until a fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) level < 160 mg / dL was achieved or the maximum dose reached .
The dose that achieved the targeted control or the maximum dose was continued to end of study .
FPG and 2 - hour post - prandial glucose ( PPG ) increased in patients receiving placebo and decreased in patients treated with repaglinide .
Differences between the repaglinide - and placebo - treated groups were - 61 mg / dL ( FPG ) and - 104 mg / dL ( PPG ) ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Repaglinide Tablets vs Placebo Mean Change from Baseline after 3 Months of Treatment Repaglinide Placebo N 66 33 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) • Baseline 220 . 2 215 . 3 • Change from baseline ( at last visit ) - 31 . 0 * 30 . 3 Post Prandial Glucose ( mg / dL ) • Baseline 261 . 7 245 . 2 • Change from baseline ( at last visit ) - 47 . 6 * 56 . 5 * : p < 0 . 05 for between group difference The dosing of repaglinide tablets relative to meal - related insulin release was studied in three trials including 58 patients .
Glycemic control was maintained during a period in which the meal and dosing pattern was varied ( 2 , 3 or 4 meals per day ; before meals x 2 , 3 , or 4 ) compared with a period of 3 regular meals and 3 doses per day ( before meals x 3 ) .
Blood glucose - lowering effect did not differ when repaglinide tablets were administered at the start of a meal , 15 minutes before , or 30 minutes before the meal .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic parameters of repaglinide obtained from a single - dose , crossover study in healthy subjects and from a multiple - dose , parallel , dose - proportionality ( 0 . 5 , 1 , 2 and 4 mg ) study in patients with type 2 diabetes are summarized in Tables 5 and 6 .
These data indicate that repaglinide did not accumulate in serum .
Clearance of oral repaglinide did not change over the 0 . 5 - 4 mg dose range , indicating a linear relationship between dose and plasma drug levels .
Table 5 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Repaglinide in Healthy Subjects Parameter CL ( based on i . v . ) 38 ± 16 L / hr Vss ( based on i . v . ) 31 ± 12 L AbsBio 56 ± 9 % CL = total body clearance Vss = volume of distribution at steady state AbsBio = absolute bioavailability Table 6 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Repaglinide in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes * Pharmacokinetic Parameter Dose ( mg ) AUC0 - 24 hr ( ng / mL * hr ) Mean ( SD ) Cmax0 - 5 hr ( ng / mL ) Mean ( SD ) 0 . 5 68 . 9 ( 154 . 4 ) 9 . 8 ( 10 . 2 ) 1 125 . 8 ( 129 . 8 ) 18 . 3 ( 9 . 1 ) 2 152 . 4 ( 89 . 60 ) 26 . 0 ( 13 . 0 ) 4 447 . 4 ( 211 . 3 ) 65 . 8 ( 30 . 1 ) Tmax0 - 5 hr Means ( SD ) T ½ Means ( Ind Range ) 0 . 5 - 4 1 . 0 – 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 – 0 . 5 ) hr 1 . 0 – 1 . 4 ( 0 . 4 – 8 . 0 ) hr * dosed preprandially with three meals Absorption After oral administration , repaglinide is completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
After single and multiple oral doses in healthy subjects or in patients , peak plasma drug levels ( Cmax ) occur within 1 hour ( Tmax ) .
Repaglinide is eliminated from the blood stream with a half - life of approximately 1 hour .
The mean absolute bioavailability is 56 % .
When repaglinide was given with food , the mean Tmax was not changed , but the mean Cmax and AUC ( area under the time / plasma concentration curve ) were decreased 20 % and 12 . 4 % , respectively .
Distribution After intravenous ( IV ) dosing in healthy subjects , the volume of distribution at steady state ( Vss ) was 31 L , and the total body clearance ( CL ) was 38 L / h .
Protein binding and binding to human serum albumin was greater than 98 % .
Metabolism and Elimination Repaglinide is completely metabolized by oxidative biotransformation and direct conjugation with glucuronic acid after either an IV or oral dose .
The major metabolites are an oxidized dicarboxylic acid ( M2 ) , the aromatic amine ( M1 ) , and the acyl glucuronide ( M7 ) .
The cytochrome P - 450 enzyme system , specifically 2C8 and 3A4 , have been shown to be involved in the N - dealkylation of repaglinide to M2 and the further oxidation to M1 .
Metabolites do not contribute to the glucose - lowering effect of repaglinide .
Within 96 hours after dosing with 14 C - repaglinide as a single , oral dose , approximately 90 % of the radiolabel was recovered in the feces and approximately 8 % in the urine .
Only 0 . 1 % of the dose is cleared in the urine as parent compound .
The major metabolite ( M2 ) accounted for 60 % of the administered dose .
Less than 2 % of parent drug was recovered in feces .
Repaglinide appears to be a substrate for active hepatic uptake transporter ( organic anion transporting protein OATP1B1 ) .
Variability of Exposure Repaglinide AUC after multiple doses of 0 . 25 to 4 mg with each meal varies over a wide range .
The intra - individual and inter - individual coefficients of variation were 36 % and 69 % , respectively .
AUC over the therapeutic dose range included 69 to 1005 ng / mL * hr , but AUC exposure up to 5417 ng / mL * hr was reached in dose escalation studies without apparent adverse consequences .
Specific Populations Geriatric Healthy volunteers were treated with a regimen of 2 mg repaglinide tablets taken before each of 3 meals .
There were no significant differences in repaglinide pharmacokinetics between the group of patients < 65 years of age and a comparably sized group of patients ≥ 65 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Gender A comparison of pharmacokinetics in males and females showed the AUC over the 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg dose range to be 15 % to 70 % higher in females with type 2 diabetes .
This difference was not reflected in the frequency of hypoglycemic episodes ( male : 16 % ; female : 17 % ) or other adverse events .
Race No pharmacokinetic studies to assess the effects of race have been performed , but in a U . S . 1 - year study in patients with type 2 diabetes , the blood glucose - lowering effect was comparable between Caucasians ( n = 297 ) and African - Americans ( n = 33 ) .
In a U . S . dose - response study , there was no apparent difference in exposure ( AUC ) between Caucasians ( n = 74 ) and Hispanics ( n = 33 ) .
Renal Impairment Single - dose and steady - state pharmacokinetics of repaglinide were compared between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function ( CrCl > 80 mL / min ) , mild to moderate renal function impairment ( CrCl = 40 – 80 mL / min ) , and severe renal function impairment ( CrCl = 20 – 40 mL / min ) .
Both AUC and Cmax of repaglinide were similar in patients with normal and mild to moderately impaired renal function ( mean values 56 . 7 ng / mL * hr vs 57 . 2 ng / mL * hr and 37 . 5 ng / mL vs 37 . 7 ng / mL , respectively . )
Patients with severely reduced renal function had elevated mean AUC and Cmax values ( 98 . 0 ng / mL * hr and 50 . 7 ng / mL , respectively ) , but this study showed only a weak correlation between repaglinide levels and creatinine clearance .
Hepatic Impairment A single - dose , open - label study was conducted in 12 healthy subjects and 12 patients with chronic liver disease ( CLD ) classified by Child - Pugh scale and caffeine clearance .
Patients with moderate to severe impairment of liver function had higher and more prolonged serum concentrations of both total and unbound repaglinide than healthy subjects ( AUChealthy : 91 . 6 ng / mL * hr ; AUCCLD patients : 368 . 9 ng / mL * hr ; Cmax , healthy : 46 . 7 ng / mL ; Cmax , CLD patients : 105 . 4 ng / mL ) .
AUC was statistically correlated with caffeine clearance .
No difference in glucose profiles was observed across patient groups .
Drug - Drug Interactions Drug interaction studies performed in healthy volunteers show that repaglinide tablets had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of digoxin , theophylline , or warfarin .
Co - administration of cimetidine with repaglinide tablets did not significantly alter the absorption and disposition of repaglinide .
Additionally , the following drugs were studied in healthy volunteers with co - administration of repaglinide tablets .
Table 7 : Effect of Other Drugs on AUC and Cmax of Repaglinide Study Drug Dosing • Repaglinide • Dosing1 Repaglinide AUC Cmax Clarithromycin * • 250 mg BID for 4 days • 40 % ↑ • 67 % ↑ Clopidogrel * • 300 mg • ( Day 1 ) 75 mg QD ( Day 2 - 3 ) 0 . 25 mg ( Day 1 and 3 ) • ( day 1 ) 5 . 1 fold ↑ ( 3 . 9 - 6 . 6 ) ( day 3 ) 3 . 9 fold ↑ ( 2 . 9 - 5 . 3 ) • 2 . 5 fold ↑ ( 1 . 8 - 3 . 5 ) 2 . 0 fold ↑ ( 1 . 3 - 3 . 1 ) Cyclosporine • 100 mg ( 2 doses 12 hours apart ) • 2 . 5 fold ↑ • 1 . 8 fold ↑ Deferasirox * • 30 mg / kg QD for 4 days 0 . 5 mg • 2 . 3 fold ↑ • 62 % ↑ Fenofibrate • 200 mg QD for 5 days • 0 % • 0 % Gemfibrozil * • 600 mg BID for 3 days • 8 . 1 fold ↑ • 2 . 4 fold ↑ Itraconazole * • 100 mg BID for 3 days • 1 . 4 fold ↑ • 1 . 5 fold ↑ Gemfibrozil + Itraconazole * Co - administration • Gem : 600 mg BID for 3 days Itra : 100 mg BID for 3 days • 19 fold ↑ • 2 . 8 fold ↑ Ketoconazole • 200 mg QD for 4 days 2 mg • 15 % ↑ • 16 % ↑ Levonorgestrel / ethinyl Estradiol • ( 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg ) Combination tablet QD for 21 days 2 mg • 0 % • 20 % ↑ Nifedipine * • 10 mg TID for 4 days 2 mg • 0 % • 0 % Rifampin * • 600 mg QD for 6 - 7 days 4 mg • 32 - 80 % ↓ • 17 - 79 % ↓ Simvastatin • 20 mg QD for 4 days 2 mg • 0 % • 26 % ↑ Trimethoprim * • 160 mg BID for 2 days 160 mg QD for 1 day • 61 % ↑ • 41 % ↑ 1 Unless indicated all drug interactions were observed with single dose of 0 . 25 mg repaglinide ↑ indicates increase ↓ indicates decrease * Indicates data are from published literature 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats at doses up to 120 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 90 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis , the incidences of benign adenomas of the thyroid and liver were increased in male rats .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was found in female rats .
The higher incidences of thyroid and liver tumors in male rats were not seen at lower dose of 30 mg / kg / day and 60 mg / kg / day respectively ( which are over 20 and 45 times , respectively , clinical exposures on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in mice at doses up to 500 mg / kg / day , no evidence of carcinogenicity was found in mice ( which is approximately 187 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Repaglinide was non - genotoxic in a battery of in vivo and in vitro studies : Bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames test ) , in vitro forward cell mutation assay in V79 cells ( HGPRT ) , in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , unscheduled and replicating DNA synthesis in rat liver , and in vivo mouse and rat micronucleus tests .
In a rat fertility study , repaglinide was administered to male and female rats at doses up to 300 and 80 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No adverse effects on fertility were observed ( which are over 60 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Monotherapy Trials A double - blind , placebo - controlled trial was carried out in 362 patients treated for 24 weeks .
HbA1c for the repaglinide - treated groups ( 1 and 4 mg groups combined ) at the end of the study was decreased compared to the placebo - treated group in treatment naïve patients and in patients previously treated with oral hypoglycemic agents by 2 . 1 % and 1 . 7 % , respectively .
In this fixed - dose trial , patients who were treatment naïve to oral hypoglycemic agent therapy and patients with a HbA1c below 8 % at baseline showed greater blood glucose - lowering .
14 . 2 Combination Trials Repaglinide Tablets in Combination With Metformin Repaglinide tablets were studied in combination with metformin in 83 patients not satisfactorily controlled on exercise , diet , and metformin alone .
Repaglinide tablet dosage was titrated for 4 to 8 weeks , followed by a 3 - month maintenance period .
Combination therapy with repaglinide tablets and metformin resulted in statistically significant improvement in HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) compared to repaglinide tablets or metformin monotherapy ( Table 8 ) .
In this study where metformin dosage was kept constant , the combination therapy of repaglinide tablets and metformin showed dose - sparing effects with respect to repaglinide tablets .
The improvement in HbA1c and FPG of the combination group was achieved at a lower daily repaglinide tablet dosage than in the repaglinide tablets monotherapy group ( Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Repaglinide Tablets in Combination with Metformin : Mean Change from Baseline after 4 to 5 Months of Treatment1 • Repaglinide Tablet Monotherapy • Repaglinide Tablet Combination Therapy with Metformin • Metformin Monotherapy N • 28 • 27 • 27 Median Final Dose ( mg / day ) • 12 • 6 ( Repaglinide Tablets ) 1500 ( metformin ) • 1500 HbA1c ( % ) • Baseline • 8 . 6 • 8 . 3 • 8 . 6 • Change from baseline • - 0 . 38 • - 1 . 41 * • - 0 . 33 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) • Baseline • 174 • 184 • 194 • Change from baseline • 8 . 8 • - 39 . 2 * • - 4 . 5 Weight ( kg ) • Baseline • 87 • 93 • 91 • Change from baseline • 3 . 0 • 2 . 4 # • - 0 . 90 1 : based on intent - to - treat analysis * : p < 0 . 05 , for pairwise comparisons with repaglinide tablets and metformin monotherapy .
# : p < 0 . 05 , for pairwise comparison with metformin .
Repaglinide Tablets in Combination With Pioglitazone A combination therapy regimen of repaglinide tablets and pioglitazone ( N = 123 ) was compared to repaglinide tablets alone ( N = 61 ) and pioglitazone alone ( N = 62 ) in a 24 - week trial that enrolled 246 patients previously treated with sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy ( HbA1c > 7 . 0 % ) .
Repaglinide tablets dosage was titrated during the first 12 weeks , followed by a 12 - week maintenance period .
Combination therapy resulted in statistically significant improvement in HbA1c and FPG compared to monotherapy ( Figure 1 ) .
The changes from baseline for completers in FPG ( mg / dL ) and HbA1c ( % ) , respectively were : - 39 . 8 mg / dL and - 0 . 1 % for repaglinide tablets , - 35 . 3 mg / dL and - 0 . 1 % for pioglitazone and - 92 . 4 mg / dL and - 1 . 9 % for the combination .
In this study where pioglitazone dosage was kept constant , the combination therapy group showed dose - sparing effects with respect to repaglinide tablets ( see Figure 1 Legend ) .
The improvement in HbA1c and FPG of the combination group was achieved at a lower daily repaglinide tablet dosage than in the repaglinide tablet monotherapy group .
Figure 1 : Repaglinide Tablets in Combination with Pioglitazone : HbA1c Values [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEGEND : HbA1c values by study week for patients who completed study ( combination , N = 101 ; Repaglinide , N = 35 , pioglitazone , N = 26 ) .
Subjects with FPG above 270 mg / dL were withdrawn from the study .
Pioglitazone dose : fixed at 30 mg / day ; repaglinide median final dose : 6 mg / day for combination and 10 mg / day for monotherapy .
Repaglinide Tablets in Combination With Rosiglitazone A combination therapy regimen of repaglinide tablets and rosiglitazone was compared to monotherapy with either agent alone in a 24 - week trial that enrolled 252 patients previously treated with sulfonylurea or metformin ( HbA1c > 7 . 0 % ) .
Combination therapy resulted in statistically significant improvement in HbA1c and FPG compared to monotherapy ( Table 9 below ) .
The glycemic effects of the combination therapy were dose - sparing with respect to both total daily repaglinide tablet dosage and total daily rosiglitazone dosage ( see Table 9 Legend ) .
The improvement in HbA1c and FPG of the combination therapy group was achieved with lower daily dose of repaglinide tablets and rosiglitazone , as compared to the respective monotherapy groups .
Table 9 : Repaglinide Tablets in Combination with Rosiglitazone : Mean Change from Baseline in a 24 - Week Study1 • Repaglinide Tablet Monotherapy • Repaglinide Tablet Combination Therapy with Rosiglitazone • Rosiglitazone Monotherapy N • 63 • 127 • 62 Median Final Dose ( mg / day ) • 12 • 6 ( Repaglinide Tablets ) 4 ( Rosiglitazone ) • 8 HbA1c ( % ) • Baseline • 9 . 3 • 9 . 1 • 9 . 0 • Change from baseline • - 0 . 17 • - 1 . 43 * • - 0 . 56 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) • Baseline • 269 • 257 • 252 • Change from baseline • - 54 • - 94 * • - 67 Change in Weight ( kg ) • + 1 . 3 • + 4 . 5 # • + 3 . 3 1 : based on intent - to - treat analysis * : p ≤ 0 . 001 for comparison to either monotherapy # : p < 0 . 05 for comparison to repaglinide tablets 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Repaglinide Tablets , USP are supplied as round tablets with beveled edges on both sides available in 1 mg ( yellow , debossed with P241 on one side ) .
1 mg tablets ( yellow ) Bottles of 100 NDC 63629 - 8448 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Keep bottles tightly close .
Dispense in tight containers with safety closures .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypoglycemia Inform patients that repaglinide tablets can cause hypoglycemia and instruct patients and their caregivers on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring and management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Instruct patients to take repaglinide tablets within 30 minutes before meals .
Instruct patients to skip their dose of repaglinide tablets when a meal is skipped .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Discuss potential drug interactions with patients and inform them of potential drug - drug interactions with repaglinide tablets .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 2203658 8Z400 RC J4 Rev 12 - 19 C Repaglinide 1 mg Tablet , # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
