Indications and Usage , Bacterial Vaginosis ( 1 . 4 ) 5 / 2007 Dosage and Administration , Bacterial Vaginosis ( 2 . 6 ) Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) 5 / 2007 10 / 2019 WARNING : POTENTIAL RISK FOR CARCINOGENICITY Carcinogenicity has been seen in mice and rats treated chronically with metronidazole , another nitroimidazole agent ( 13 . 1 ) .
Although such data have not been reported for tinidazole , the two drugs are structurally related and have similar biologic effects .
Limit use of Tinidazole tablets to approved indications only ( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 , 1 . 3 ) .
Avoid chronic use .
( 5 . 1 ) .
WARNING : POTENTIAL RISK FOR CARCINOGENICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Carcinogenicity has been seen in mice and rats treated chronically with metronidazole , another nitroimidazole agent ( 13 . 1 ) .
Although such data have not been reported for tinidazole , the two drugs are structurally related and have similar biologic effects .
Use should be limited to approved indications only .
Limit use of Tinidazole tablets to approved indications only ( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 , 1 . 3 ) .
Avoid chronic use .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tinidazole is a nitroimidazole antimicrobial indicated for : • Trichomoniasis ( 1 . 1 ) • Giardiasis : in patients age 3 and older ( 1 . 2 ) • Amebiasis : in patients age 3 and older ( 1 . 3 ) • Bacterial Vaginosis : in non - pregnant , adult women ( 1 . 4 , 8 . 1 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of tinidazole tablets and other antibacterial drugs , tinidazole tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 . 5 ) 1 . 1 Trichomoniasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of trichomoniasis caused by Trichomonas vaginalis .
The organism should be identified by appropriate diagnostic procedures .
Because trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease with potentially serious sequelae , partners of infected patients should be treated simultaneously in order to prevent re - infection [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Giardiasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of giardiasis caused by Giardia duodenalis ( also termed G . lamblia ) in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Amebiasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of intestinal amebiasis and amebic liver abscess caused by Entamoeba histolytica in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age .
It is not indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic cyst passage [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 , 14 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 4 Bacterial Vaginosis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis ( formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis , Gardnerella vaginitis , nonspecific vaginitis , or anaerobic vaginosis ) in non - pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis such as Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans and Herpes simplex virus should be ruled out .
1 . 6 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of tinidazole tablets and other antibacterial drugs , tinidazole tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Trichomoniasis : a single 2 g oral dose taken with food .
Treat sexual partners with the same dose and at the same time ( 2 . 3 ) • Giardiasis : Adults : a single 2 g dose taken with food .
Pediatric patients older than three years of age : a single dose of 50 mg / kg ( up to 2 g ) with food ( 2 . 4 ) • Amebiasis , Intestinal : Adults : 2 g per day for 3 days with food .
Pediatric patients older than three years of age : 50 mg / kg / day ( up to 2 g per day ) for 3 days with food ( 2 . 5 ) .
Amebic liver abscess : Adults : 2 g per day for 3 to 5 days with food .
Pediatric patients older than three years of age : 50 mg / kg / day ( up to 2 g per day ) for 3 to 5 days with food ( 2 . 5 ) • Bacterial vaginosis : Non - pregnant , adult women : 2 g once daily for 2 days taken with food , or 1 g once daily for 5 days taken with food ( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Instructions It is advisable to take tinidazole with food to minimize the incidence of epigastric discomfort and other gastrointestinal side - effects .
Food does not affect the oral bioavailability of tinidazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Alcoholic beverages should be avoided when taking tinidazole and for 3 days afterwards [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Compounding of the Oral Suspension For those unable to swallow tablets , tinidazole tablets may be crushed in artificial cherry syrup to be taken with food .
Procedure for Extemporaneous Pharmacy Compounding of the Oral Suspension : Pulverize four 500 mg oral tablets with a mortar and pestle .
Add approximately 10 mL of cherry syrup to the powder and mix until smooth .
Transfer the suspension to a graduated amber container .
Use several small rinses of cherry syrup to transfer any remaining drug in the mortar to the final suspension for a final volume of 30 mL .
The suspension of crushed tablets in artificial cherry syrup is stable for 7 days at room temperature .
When this suspension is used , it should be shaken well before each administration .
2 . 3 Trichomoniasis The recommended dose in both females and males is a single 2 g oral dose taken with food .
Since trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease , sexual partners should be treated with the same dose and at the same time .
2 . 4 Giardiasis The recommended dose in adults is a single 2 g dose taken with food .
In pediatric patients older than three years of age , the recommended dose is a single dose of 50 mg / kg ( up to 2 g ) with food .
2 . 5 Amebiasis Intestinal : The recommended dose in adults is a 2 g dose per day for 3 days taken with food .
In pediatric patients older than three years of age , the recommended dose is 50 mg / kg / day ( up to 2 g per day ) for 3 days with food .
Amebic Liver Abscess : The recommended dose in adults is a 2 g dose per day for 3 to 5 days taken with food .
In pediatric patients older than three years of age , the recommended dose is 50 mg / kg / day ( up to 2 g per day ) for 3 to 5 days with food .
There are limited pediatric data on durations of therapy exceeding 3 days , although a small number of children were treated for 5 days without additional reported adverse reactions .
Children should be closely monitored when treatment durations exceed 3 days .
2 . 6 Bacterial Vaginosis The recommended dose in non - pregnant females is a 2 g oral dose once daily for 2 days taken with food or a 1 g oral dose once daily for 5 days taken with food .
The use of tinidazole in pregnant patients has not been studied for bacterial vaginosis .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 250 mg tablets are yellow , round , tablets , with " 207 " debossed on left side of the scoring on one side and plain on the other side .
• 500 mg tablets are yellow , oval , tablets , with " 208 " debossed on left side of the scoring on one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 250 mg and 500 mg scored ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of tinidazole is contraindicated : • In patients with a previous history of hypersensitivity to tinidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives .
Reported reactions have ranged in severity from urticaria to Stevens - Johnson syndrome [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Prior history of hypersensitivity to tinidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives ( 4 , 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Seizures and neuropathy have been reported .
Discontinue tinidazole tablets if abnormal neurologic signs develop ( 5 . 1 ) • Vaginal candidiasis may develop with tinidazole tablets and require treatment with an antifungal agent ( 5 . 2 ) • Use tinidazole tablets with caution in patients with blood dyscrasias .
Tinidazole tablets may produce transient leukopenia and neutropenia ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Potential for genotoxity and carcinogenicity Carcinogenicity has been seen in mice and rats treated chronically with nitroimidazole derivatives , which are structurally related to tinidazole [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Although such data have not been reported for tinidazole , the two drugs are structurally related and have similar biologic effects .
However , it is unclear if the positive tumor findings in lifetime rodent studies indicate a risk to patients taking a short course or single dose of TINDAMAX .
Use should be limited to approved indications only .
Avoid chronic use .
5 . 2 Neurological Adverse Reactions Convulsive seizures and peripheral neuropathy , the latter characterized mainly by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity , have been reported in patients treated with tinidazole .
The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs demands the prompt discontinuation of tinidazole therapy .
5 . 3 Vaginal Candidiasis The use of tinidazole may result in Candida vaginitis .
In a clinical study of 235 women who received tinidazole for bacterial vaginosis , a vaginal fungal infection developed in 11 ( 4 . 7 % ) of all study subjects [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 4 Blood Dyscrasia Tinidazole should be used with caution in patients with evidence of or history of blood dyscrasia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Drug Resistance Prescribing tinidazole tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions for a single 2 g dose of tinidazole ( incidence > 1 % ) are metallic / bitter taste , nausea , weakness / fatigue / malaise , dyspepsia / cramps / epigastric discomfort , vomiting , anorexia , headache , dizziness and constipation ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Edenbridge Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 381 - 3336 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Among 3669 patients treated with a single 2 g dose of tinidazole , in both controlled and uncontrolled trichomoniasis and giardiasis clinical studies , adverse reactions were reported by 11 . 0 % of patients .
For multi - day dosing in controlled and uncontrolled amebiasis studies , adverse reactions were reported by 13 . 8 % of 1765 patients .
Common ( ≥ 1 % incidence ) adverse reactions reported by body system are as follows .
( Note : Data described in Table 1 below are pooled from studies with variable designs and safety evaluations . )
Other adverse reactions reported with tinidazole include : Central Nervous System : Two serious adverse reactions reported include convulsions and transient peripheral neuropathy including numbness and paresthesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Other CNS reports include vertigo , ataxia , giddiness , insomnia , drowsiness .
Gastrointestinal : tongue discoloration , stomatitis , diarrhea Hypersensitivity : urticaria , pruritis , rash , flushing , sweating , dryness of mouth , fever , burning sensation , thirst , salivation , angioedema Renal : darkened urine Cardiovascular : palpitations Hematopoietic : transient neutropenia , transient leukopenia Other : Candida overgrowth , increased vaginal discharge , oral candidiasis , hepatic abnormalities including raised transaminase level , arthralgias , myalgias , and arthritis .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Summary of Published Reports 2 g Single Dose Multi - day Dose GI : Metallic / bitter taste 3 . 7 % 6 . 3 % Nausea 3 . 2 % 4 . 5 % Anorexia 1 . 5 % 2 . 5 % Dyspepsia / cramps / epigastric discomfort 1 . 8 % 1 . 4 % Vomiting 1 . 5 % 0 . 9 % Constipation 0 . 4 % 1 . 4 % CNS : Weakness / fatigue / malaise 2 . 1 % 1 . 1 % Dizziness 1 . 1 % 0 . 5 % Other : Headache 1 . 3 % 0 . 7 % Total Patients with Adverse Reactions 11 . 0 % ( 403 / 3669 ) 13 . 8 % ( 244 / 1765 ) Rare reported adverse reactions include bronchospasm , dyspnea , coma , confusion , depression , furry tongue , pharyngitis and reversible thrombocytopenia .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients : In pooled pediatric studies , adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients taking tinidazole were similar in nature and frequency to adult findings including nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , taste change , anorexia , and abdominal pain .
Bacterial vaginosis : The most common adverse reactions in treated patients ( incidence > 2 % ) , which were not identified in the trichomoniasis , giardiasis and amebiasis studies , are gastrointestinal : decreased appetite , and flatulence ; renal : urinary tract infection , painful urination , and urine abnormality ; and other reactions including pelvic pain , vulvo - vaginal discomfort , vaginal odor , menorrhagia , and upper respiratory tract infection [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified and reported during post - approval use of tinidazole tablets .
Because the reports of these reactions are voluntary and the population is of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of the reaction or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Severe acute hypersensitivity reactions have been reported on initial or subsequent exposure to tinidazole .
Hypersensitivity reactions may include urticaria , pruritis , angioedema , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and erythema multiforme .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Although not specifically identified in studies with tinidazole , the following drug interactions were reported for metronidazole , a chemically - related nitroimidazole .
Therefore , these drug interactions may occur with tinidazole .
The following drug interactions were reported for metronidazole , a chemically - related nitroimidazole and may therefore occur with tinidazole : • Warfarin and other oral coumarin anticoagulants : Anticoagulant dosage may need adjustment during and up to 8 days after tinidazole therapy ( 7 . 1 ) • Alcohol - containing beverages / preparations : Avoid during and up to 3 days after tinidazole therapy ( 7 . 1 ) • Lithium : Monitor serum lithium concentrations ( 7 . 1 ) • Cyclosporine , tacrolimus : Monitor for toxicities of these immunosuppressive drugs ( 7 . 1 ) • Fluorouracil : Monitor for fluorouracil - associated toxicities ( 7 . 1 ) • Phenytoin , fosphenytoin : Adjustment of anticonvulsant and / or tinidazole dose ( s ) may be needed ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) • CYP3A4 inducers / inhibitors : Monitor for decreased tinidazole effect or increased adverse reactions ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential Effects of Tinidazole on Other Drugs Warfarin and Other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants : As with metronidazole , tinidazole may enhance the effect of warfarin and other coumarin anticoagulants , resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
The dosage of oral anticoagulants may need to be adjusted during tinidazole co - administration and up to 8 days after discontinuation .
Alcohols , Disulfiram : Alcoholic beverages and preparations containing ethanol or propylene glycol should be avoided during tinidazole therapy and for 3 days afterward because abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing may occur .
Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients using metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently .
Though no similar reactions have been reported with tinidazole , tinidazole should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks .
Lithium : Metronidazole has been reported to elevate serum lithium levels .
It is not known if tinidazole shares this property with metronidazole , but consideration should be given to measuring serum lithium and creatinine levels after several days of simultaneous lithium and tinidazole treatment to detect potential lithium intoxication .
Phenytoin , Fosphenytoin : Concomitant administration of oral metronidazole and intravenous phenytoin was reported to result in prolongation of the half - life and reduction in the clearance of phenytoin .
Metronidazole did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of orally - administered phenytoin .
Cyclosporine , Tacrolimus : There are several case reports suggesting that metronidazole has the potential to increase the levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus .
During tinidazole coadministration with either of these drugs , the patient should be monitored for signs of calcineurin - inhibitor associated toxicities .
Fluorouracil : Metronidazole was shown to decrease the clearance of fluorouracil , resulting in an increase in side - effects without an increase in therapeutic benefits .
If the concomitant use of tinidazole and fluorouracil cannot be avoided , the patient should be monitored for fluorouracil - associated toxicities .
7 . 2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Tinidazole CYP3A4 Inducers and Inhibitors : Simultaneous administration of tinidazole with drugs that induce liver microsomal enzymes , i . e . , CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital , rifampin , phenytoin , and fosphenytoin ( a pro - drug of phenytoin ) , may accelerate the elimination of tinidazole , decreasing the plasma level of tinidazole .
Simultaneous administration of drugs that inhibit the activity of liver microsomal enzymes , i . e . , CYP3A4 inhibitors such as cimetidine and ketoconazole , may prolong the half - life and decrease the plasma clearance of tinidazole , increasing the plasma concentrations of tinidazole .
Cholestyramine : Cholestyramine was shown to decrease the oral bioavailability of metronidazole by 21 % .
Thus , it is advisable to separate dosing of cholestyramine and tinidazole to minimize any potential effect on the oral bioavailability of tinidazole .
Oxytetracycline : Oxytetracycline was reported to antagonize the therapeutic effect of metronidazole .
7 . 3 Laboratory Test Interactions Tinidazole , like metronidazole , may interfere with certain types of determinations of serum chemistry values , such as aspartate aminotransferase ( AST , SGOT ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT , SGPT ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , triglycerides , and hexokinase glucose .
Values of zero may be observed .
All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation - reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NAD + ↔ NADH ) .
Potential interference is due to the similarity of absorbance peaks of NADH and tinidazole .
Tinidazole , like metronidazole , may produce transient leukopenia and neutropenia ; however , no persistent hematological abnormalities attributable to tinidazole have been observed in clinical studies .
Total and differential leukocyte counts are recommended if retreatment is necessary .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Data on tinidazole use in children is limited to treatment of giardiasis and amebiasis in patients age 3 and older ( 8 . 4 ) • Hemodialysis patients : If tinidazole is administered the same day and prior to hemodialysis , administer an additional 1 / 2 dose after end of hemodialysis ( 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) • Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended .
Discontinue breastfeeding during and for 72 hours after the last dose of Tinidazole ( 8 . 2 ) ” 8 . 1 Pregnancy Available published data from a case - control study and case report with Tinidazole Tablets use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks associated with untreated lower genital tract infections during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of tinidazole to pregnant mice and rats during organogenesis at 6 and 3 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( based on body surface area comparison ) showed a slight increase in fetal mortality in rats at the highest dose , with no other adverse fetal effects noted in either species ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal developmental toxicity studies in pregnant mice indicated no embryo - fetal toxicity or malformations at the highest dose level of 2 , 500 mg / kg ( approximately 6 . 3 - fold the highest human therapeutic dose based upon body surface area conversions ) .
In a study with pregnant rats a slightly higher incidence of fetal mortality was observed at a maternal dose of 500 mg / kg ( 2 . 5 - fold the highest human therapeutic dose based upon body surface area conversions ) .
No biologically relevant neonatal developmental effects were observed in rat neonates following maternal doses as high as 600 mg / kg ( 3 - fold the highest human therapeutic dose based upon body surface area conversions ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature , based on breast milk sampling , reports that tinidazole is present in human milk .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no information on the effects of tinidazole on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including tumorigenicity , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Tinidazole and for 72 hours ( based on half - life ) after administration of Tinidazole .
Clinical Considerations A nursing mother may choose to pump and discard her milk during treatment and for 72 hours after administration of Tinidazole to minimize exposure to the breastfeeding infant .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Infertility Males Based on findings in rodents , Tinidazole may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential .
It is not known whether effects on fertility are reversible [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Other than for use in the treatment of giardiasis and amebiasis in pediatric patients older than three years of age , safety and effectiveness of tinidazole in pediatric patients have not been established .
Pediatric Administration : For those unable to swallow tablets , tinidazole tablets may be crushed in artificial cherry syrup , to be taken with food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of tinidazole did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Because the pharmacokinetics of tinidazole in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 22 mL / min ) are not significantly different from those in healthy subjects , no dose adjustments are necessary in these patients .
Patients undergoing hemodialysis : If tinidazole is administered on the same day as and prior to hemodialysis , it is recommended that an additional dose of tinidazole equivalent to one half of the recommended dose be administered after the end of the hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment There are no data on tinidazole pharmacokinetics in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Reduced elimination of metronidazole , a chemically - related nitroimidazole , has been reported in this population .
Usual recommended doses of tinidazole should be administered cautiously in patients with hepatic dysfunction [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no reported overdoses with tinidazole in humans .
Treatment of Overdosage : There is no specific antidote for the treatment of overdosage with tinidazole ; therefore , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Gastric lavage may be helpful .
Hemodialysis can be considered because approximately 43 % of the amount present in the body is eliminated during a 6 - hour hemodialysis session .
11 DESCRIPTION Tinidazole is a synthetic antiprotozoal and antibacterial agent .
It is 1 - [ 2 - ethylsulfonyl ) ethyl ] - 2 - methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole , a second - generation 2 - methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole , which has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tinidazole oral tablets are yellow colored tablets that contain 250 mg or 500 mg of tinidazole .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl pyrrolidone , pregelatinized corn starch , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tinidazole is an antiprotozoal , antibacterial agent .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tinidazole exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After oral administration , tinidazole is rapidly and completely absorbed .
A bioavailability study of tinidazole tablets was conducted in adult healthy volunteers .
All subjects received a single oral dose of 2 g ( four 500 mg tablets ) of tinidazole tablets following an overnight fast .
Oral administration of four 500 mg tablets of tinidazole tablets under fasted conditions produced a mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of 47 . 7 ( ± 7 . 5 ) μg / mL with a mean time to peak concentration ( Tmax ) of 1 . 6 ( ± 0 . 7 ) hours , and a mean area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC0 to ∞ ) of 901 . 6 ( ± 126 . 5 ) μg hr / mL at 72 hours .
The elimination half - life ( T1 / 2 ) was 13 . 2 ( ± 1 . 4 ) hours .
Mean plasma levels decreased to 14 . 3 μg / mL at 24 hours , 3 . 8 μg / mL at 48 hours and 0 . 8 μg / mL at 72 hours following administration .
Steady - state conditions are reached in 2 ½ to 3 days of multi - day dosing .
Administration of tinidazole tablets with food resulted in a delay in Tmax of approximately 2 hours and a decline in Cmax of approximately 10 % , compared to fasted conditions .
However , administration of tinidazole tablets with food did not affect AUC or T1 / 2 in this study .
In healthy volunteers , administration of crushed tinidazole tablets in artificial cherry syrup , [ prepared as described in Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] after an overnight fast had no effect on any pharmacokinetic parameter as compared to tablets swallowed whole under fasted conditions .
Distribution : Tinidazole is distributed into virtually all tissues and body fluids and also crosses the blood - brain barrier .
The apparent volume of distribution is about 50 liters .
Plasma protein binding of tinidazole is 12 % .
Elimination : The plasma half - life of tinidazole is approximately 12 to 14 hours .
Metabolism : Tinidazole is significantly metabolized in humans prior to excretion .
Tinidazole is partly metabolized by oxidation , hydroxylation , and conjugation .
Tinidazole is the major drug - related constituent in plasma after human treatment , along with a small amount of the 2 - hydroxymethyl metabolite .
Tinidazole is biotransformed mainly by CYP3A4 .
In an in vitro metabolic drug interaction study , tinidazole concentrations of up to 75 μg / mL did not inhibit the enzyme activities of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 .
The potential of tinidazole to induce the metabolism of other drugs has not been evaluated .
Excretion : Tinidazole is excreted by the liver and the kidneys .
Tinidazole is excreted in the urine mainly as unchanged drug ( approximately 20 to 25 % of the administered dose ) .
Approximately 12 % of the drug is excreted in the feces .
Specific Populations Patients with impaired renal function : The pharmacokinetics of tinidazole in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 22 mL / min ) are not significantly different from the pharmacokinetics seen in healthy subjects .
However , during hemodialysis , clearance of tinidazole is significantly increased ; the half - life is reduced from 12 . 0 hours to 4 . 9 hours .
Approximately 43 % of the amount present in the body is eliminated during a 6 - hour hemodialysis session [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of tinidazole in patients undergoing routine continuous peritoneal dialysis have not been investigated .
Patients with impaired hepatic function : There are no data on tinidazole pharmacokinetics in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Reduction of metabolic elimination of metronidazole , a chemically - related nitroimidazole , in patients with hepatic dysfunction has been reported in several studies [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action : Tinidazole is an antiprotozoal , antibacterial agent .
The nitro - group of tinidazole is reduced by cell extracts of Trichomonas .
The free nitro - radical generated as a result of this reduction may be responsible for the antiprotozoal activity .
Chemically reduced tinidazole was shown to release nitrites and cause damage to purified bacterial DNA in vitro .
Additionally , the drug caused DNA base changes in bacterial cells and DNA strand breakage in mammalian cells .
The mechanism by which tinidazole exhibits activity against Giardia and Entamoeba species is not known .
Antibacterial : Culture and sensitivity testing of bacteria are not routinely performed to establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 4 ) ] ; standard methodology for the susceptibility testing of potential bacterial pathogens , Gardnerella vaginalis , Mobiluncus spp .
or Mycoplasma hominis , has not been defined .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Tinidazole is active in vitro against most strains of the following organisms that have been reported to be associated with bacterial vaginosis : Bacteroides spp .
Gardnerella vaginalis Prevotella spp .
Tinidazole does not appear to have activity against most strains of vaginal lactobacilli .
Antiprotozoal : Tinidazole demonstrates activity both in vitro and in clinical infections against the following protozoa : Trichomonas vaginalis ; Giardia duodenalis ( also termed G . lamblia ) ; and Entamoeba histolytica .
For protozoal parasites , standardized susceptibility tests do not exist for use in clinical microbiology laboratories .
Drug Resistance : The development of resistance to tinidazole by G . duodenalis , E . histolytica , or bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis has not been examined .
Cross - resistance : Approximately 38 % of T . vaginalis isolates exhibiting reduced susceptibility to metronidazole also show reduced susceptibility to tinidazole in vitro .
The clinical significance of such an effect is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Metronidazole , a chemically - related nitroimidazole , has been reported to be carcinogenic in mice and rats but not hamsters .
In several studies metronidazole showed evidence of pulmonary , hepatic , and lymphatic tumorigenesis in mice and mammary and hepatic tumors in female rats .
Tinidazole carcinogenicity studies in rats , mice or hamsters have not been reported .
Tinidazole was mutagenic in the TA 100 , S . typhimurium tester strain both with and without the metabolic activation system and was negative for mutagenicity in the TA 98 strain .
Mutagenicity results were mixed ( positive and negative ) in the TA 1535 , 1537 , and 1538 strains .
Tinidazole was also mutagenic in a tester strain of Klebsiella pneumonia .
Tinidazole was negative for mutagenicity in a mammalian cell culture system utilizing Chinese hamster lung V79 cells ( HGPRT test system ) and negative for genotoxicity in the Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) sister chromatid exchange assay .
Tinidazole was positive for in vivo genotoxicity in the mouse micronucleus assay .
In a 60 - day male rat fertility study , oral doses of 600 mg / kg ( approximately 3 - fold the highest human therapeutic dose based on body surface area conversions ) reduced fertility and produced testicular histopathology , including tubular degeneration , vacuolation of the seminiferous epithelium in the testis , and hypospermia in the epididymis .
At 300 and 600 mg / kg dose levels , significant effects on sperm parameters were observed , including dose - related reduction in sperm motility , epididymal sperm numbers , percentage of normal sperm , retention of spermatids , and decreased epididymal weights .
No effects on sperm parameters were observed at 100 mg / kg ( approximately 0 . 5 - fold the highest human therapeutic dose based upon body surface area conversions ) .
This effect is characteristic of agents in the 5 - nitroimidazole class .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Trichomoniasis Tinidazole ( 2 g single oral dose ) use in trichomoniasis has been well documented in 34 published reports from the world literature involving over 2 , 800 patients treated with tinidazole .
In four published , blinded , randomized , comparative studies of the 2 g tinidazole single oral dose where efficacy was assessed by culture at time points post - treatment ranging from one week to one month , reported cure rates ranged from 92 % ( 37 / 40 ) to 100 % ( 65 / 65 ) ( n = 172 total subjects ) .
In four published , blinded , randomized , comparative studies where efficacy was assessed by wet mount between 7 to 14 days post - treatment , reported cure rates ranged from 80 % ( 8 / 10 ) to 100 % ( 16 / 16 ) ( n = 116 total subjects ) .
In these studies , tinidazole was superior to placebo and comparable to other anti - trichomonal drugs .
The single oral 2 g tinidazole dose was also assessed in four open - label trials in men ( one comparative to metronidazole and 3 single - arm studies ) .
Parasitological evaluation of the urine was performed both pre - and post - treatment and reported cure rates ranged from 83 % ( 25 / 30 ) to 100 % ( 80 / 80 ) ( n = 142 total subjects ) .
14 . 2 Giardiasis Tinidazole ( 2 g single dose ) use in giardiasis has been documented in 19 published reports from the world literature involving over 1 , 600 patients ( adults and pediatric patients ) .
In eight controlled studies involving a total of 619 subjects of whom 299 were given the 2 g × 1 day ( 50 mg / kg × 1 day in pediatric patients ) oral dose of tinidazole , reported cure rates ranged from 80 % ( 40 / 50 ) to 100 % ( 15 / 15 ) .
In three of these trials where the comparator was 2 to 3 days of various doses of metronidazole , reported cure rates for metronidazole were 76 % ( 19 / 25 ) to 93 % ( 14 / 15 ) .
Data comparing a single 2 g dose of tinidazole to usually recommended 5 to 7 days of metronidazole are limited .
14 . 3 Intestinal Amebiasis Tinidazole use in intestinal amebiasis has been documented in 26 published reports from the world literature involving over 1 , 400 patients .
Most reports utilized tinidazole 2 g / day × 3 days .
In four published , randomized , controlled studies ( 1 investigator single - blind , 3 open - label ) of the 2 g / day × 3 days oral dose of tinidazole , reported cure rates after 3 days of therapy among a total of 220 subjects ranged from 86 % ( 25 / 29 ) to 93 % ( 25 / 27 ) .
14 . 4 Amebic Liver Abscess Tinidazole use in amebic liver abscess has been documented in 18 published reports from the world literature involving over 470 patients .
Most reports utilized tinidazole 2 g / day × 2 to 5 days .
In seven published , randomized , controlled studies ( 1 double - blind , 1 single - blind , 5 open - label ) of the 2 g / day × 2 to 5 days oral dose of tinidazole accompanied by aspiration of the liver abscess when clinically necessary , reported cure rates among 133 subjects ranged from 81 % ( 17 / 21 ) to 100 % ( 16 / 16 ) .
Four of these studies utilized at least 3 days of tinidazole .
14 . 5 Bacterial Vaginosis A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in 235 non - pregnant women was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of tinidazole for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis .
A clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was based on Amsel ' s criteria and defined by the presence of an abnormal homogeneous vaginal discharge that ( a ) has a pH of greater than 4 . 5 , ( b ) emits a " fishy " amine odor when mixed with a 10 % KOH solution , and ( c ) contains ≥ 20 % clue cells on microscopic examination .
Clinical cure required a return to normal vaginal discharge and resolution of all Amsel ' s criteria .
A microbiologic diagnosis of bacterial Vaginosis was based on Gram stain of the vaginal smear demonstrating ( a ) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology , ( b ) predominance of Gardnerella morphotype , and ( c ) absent or few white blood cells , with quantification of these bacterial morphotypes to determine the Nugent score , where a score ≥ 4 was required for study inclusion and a score of 0 to 3 considered a microbiologic cure .
Therapeutic cure was a composite endpoint , consisting of both a clinical cure and microbiologic cure .
In patients with all four Amsel ' s criteria and with a baseline Nugent score ≥ 4 , tinidazole oral tablets given as either 2 g once daily for 2 days or 1 g once daily for 5 days demonstrated superior efficacy over placebo tablets as measured by therapeutic cure , clinical cure , and a microbiologic cure . Table 2 : Efficacy of Tinidazole Tablets in the Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis in a Randomized , Double - Blind , Double - Dummy , Placebo - Controlled Trial : Modified Intent - to - Treat PopulationModified Intent - to - Treat defined as all patients randomized with a baseline Nugent score of at least 4 ( n = 227 ) OutcomeTinidazole Tablets1 g × 5 days ( n = 76 ) Tinidazole Tablets2 g × 2 days ( n = 73 ) Placebo ( n = 76 ) % Cure % Cure % Curep - values for both tinidazole tablets regimens vs . placebo for therapeutic , clinical and Nugent score cure rates for both 2 and 5 days < 0 . 001 Therapeutic Cure36 . 827 . 45 . 1 DifferenceDifference in cure rates ( tinidazole tablets - placebo ) 31 . 722 . 3 97 . 5 % ClCI : confidence interval ( 16 . 8 , 46 . 6 ) ( 8 . 0 , 36 . 6 ) Clinical Cure51 . 335 . 611 . 5 Difference39 . 824 . 1 97 . 5 % Cl ( 23 . 3 , 56 . 3 ) ( 7 . 8 , 40 . 3 ) Nugent Score Cure38 . 227 . 45 . 1 Difference33 . 122 . 3 97 . 5 % Cl ( 18 . 1 , 48 . 0 ) ( 8 . 0 , 36 . 6 ) The therapeutic cure rates reported in this clinical study conducted with tinidazole tablets were based on resolution of 4 out of 4 Amsel ' s criteria and a Nugent score of < 4 .
The cure rates for previous clinical studies with other products approved for bacterial vaginosis were based on resolution of either 2 or 3 out of 4 Amsel ' s criteria .
At the time of approval for other products for bacterial vaginosis , there was no requirement for a Nugent score on Gram stain , resulting in higher reported rates of cure for bacterial vaginosis for those products than for those reported here for tinidazole .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 53002 - 1611 NDC : 53002 - 1611 - 1 10 TABLET in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Administration of Drug Patients should be told to take tinidazole tablets with food to minimize the incidence of epigastric discomfort and other gastrointestinal side - effects .
Food does not affect the oral bioavailability of tinidazole .
17 . 2 Alcohol Avoidance Patients should be told to avoid alcoholic beverages and preparations containing ethanol or propylene glycol during tinidazole tablets therapy and for 3 days afterward because abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing may occur .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with Tinidazole and to discontinue breastfeeding for 72 hours following the administration of Tinidazole .
Also , advise a nursing mother that she may choose to pump and discard her milk for 72 hours after administration of Tinidazole [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males of reproductive potential that Tinidazole may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Drug Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including tinidazole tablets should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When tinidazole tablets is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by tinidazole tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Manufactured for : Edenbridge Pharmaceuticals , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . 12 / 2019 Tindazole 500 mg Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
