[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride ( TG ) levels in adult patients with severe ( greater than or equal to 500 mg / dL ) hypertriglyceridemia .
Usage Considerations : Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP and should continue this diet during treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP .
Laboratory studies should be done to ascertain that the lipid levels are consistently abnormal before instituting therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Every attempt should be made to control serum lipids with appropriate diet , exercise , weight loss in obese patients , and control of any medical problems such as diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism that are contributing to the lipid abnormalities .
Medications known to exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia ( such as beta blockers , thiazides , estrogens ) should be discontinued or changed , if possible , prior to consideration of TG - lowering drug therapy .
Limitations of Use : The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on the risk for pancreatitis has not been determined .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , USP is a combination of ethyl esters of omega 3 fatty acids , principally eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride ( TG ) levels in adult patients with severe ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) hypertriglyceridemia .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on the risk for pancreatitis has not been determined .
( 1 ) • The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Assess TG levels carefully before initiating therapy .
Identify other causes ( e . g . , diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , medications ) of high TG levels and manage as appropriate [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
• Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules and should continue this diet during treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
In clinical studies , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules were administered with meals .
The daily dose of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules is 4 grams per day .
The daily dose may be taken as a single 4 - gram dose ( 4 capsules ) or as two 2 - gram doses ( 2 capsules given twice daily ) .
Patients should be advised to swallow omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve , or chew omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
• The daily dose of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters is 4 grams per day taken as a single 4 - gram dose ( 4 capsules ) or as two 2 - gram doses ( 2 capsules given twice daily ) .
( 2 ) • Patients should be advised to swallow omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve , or chew omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP are supplied as 1 - gram transparent , soft gelatin capsules filled with light yellowish oil printed with white ink ( Logo “ APO900 ” ) .
Capsules : 1 gram ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction ) to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules or any of its components .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction ) to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules or any of its components .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • In patients with hepatic impairment , monitor ALT and AST levels periodically during therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules may increase levels of low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) .
Monitor LDL levels periodically during therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to fish and / or shellfish .
( 5 . 2 ) • There is a possible association between omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and more frequent recurrences of symptomatic atrial fibrillation or flutter in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation , particularly within the first months of initiating therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Monitoring : Laboratory Tests In patients with hepatic impairment , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
In some patients , increases in ALT levels without a concurrent increase in AST levels were observed .
In some patients , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsule increases low - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - C ) levels .
LDL - C levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Laboratory studies should be performed periodically to measure the patient ’ s TG levels during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
5 . 2 Fish Allergy Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules contain ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids ( EPA and DHA ) obtained from the oil of several fish sources .
It is not known whether patients with allergies to fish and / or shellfish , are at increased risk of an allergic reaction to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules should be used with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to fish and / or shellfish .
5 . 3 Recurrent Atrial Fibrillation ( AF ) or Flutter In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of 663 subjects with symptomatic paroxysmal AF ( n = 542 ) or persistent AF ( n = 121 ) , recurrent AF or flutter was observed in subjects randomized to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters who received 8 grams / day for 7 days and 4 grams / day thereafter for 23 weeks at a higher rate relative to placebo .
Subjects in this trial had median baseline TG levels of 127 mg / dL , had no substantial structural heart disease , were taking no anti - arrhythmic therapy ( rate control permitted ) , and were in normal sinus rhythm at baseline .
At 24 weeks , in the paroxysmal AF stratum , there were 129 ( 47 % ) first recurrent symptomatic AF or flutter events on placebo and 141 ( 53 % ) on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( primary endpoint , HR : 1 . 19 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 93 , 1 . 35 ) .
In the persistent AF stratum , there were 19 ( 35 % ) events on placebo and 34 ( 52 % ) events on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( HR : 1 . 63 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 91 , 2 . 18 ) .
For both strata combined , the HR was 1 . 25 ; 95 % CI : 1 . 00 , 1 . 40 .
Although the clinical significance of these results is uncertain , there is a possible association between omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and more frequent recurrences of symptomatic AF or flutter in patients with paroxysmal or persistent AF , particularly within the first 2 to 3 months of initiating therapy .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are not indicated for the treatment of AF or flutter .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 3 % and greater than placebo ) were eructation , dyspepsia , and taste perversion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Corp . at 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions reported in at least 3 % of subjects treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules and at a greater rate than placebo based on pooled data across 23 clinical trials are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring at Incidence ≥ 3 % and Greater than Placebo in Clinical Trials of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsulesAdverse Reactions [ 1 ] Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ( n = 655 ) Placebo ( n = 370 ) n % n % Eructation 29 4 5 1 Dyspepsia 22 3 6 2 Taste perversion 27 4 1 ≤ 1 [ 1 ] Trials included subjects with hypertriglyceridemia and severe hypertriglyceridemia .
Additional adverse reactions from clinical trials are listed below : Digestive System Constipation , gastrointestinal disorder , and vomiting .
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Increased ALT and increased AST .
Skin Pruritus and rash .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the events described below have been identified during post - approval use of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following events have been reported : anaphylactic reaction , hemorrhagic diathesis , urticaria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Omega - 3 - acids may prolong bleeding time .
Patients taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules and an anticoagulant or other drug affecting coagulation ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents ) should be monitored periodically .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Anticoagulants or Other Drugs Affecting Coagulation Some trials with omega - 3 - acids demonstrated prolongation of bleeding time .
The prolongation of bleeding time reported in these trials has not exceeded normal limits and did not produce clinically significant bleeding episodes .
Clinical trials have not been done to thoroughly examine the effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and concomitant anticoagulants .
Patients receiving treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and an anticoagulant or other drug affecting coagulation ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents ) should be monitored periodically .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data from published case reports and the pharmacovigilance database on the use of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters given orally to female rats prior to mating through lactation did not have adverse effects on reproduction or development when given at doses 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 4 grams / day , based on a body surface area comparison .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters given orally to rats and rabbits during organogenesis was not teratogenic at clinically relevant exposures , based on body surface area comparison ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data : In female rats given oral doses of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( 100 , 600 , or 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ) beginning 2 weeks prior to mating through lactation , no adverse effects were observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
In a dose - ranging study , female rats given oral doses of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( 1 , 000 , 3 , 000 , or 6 , 000 mg / kg / day ) beginning 2 weeks prior to mating through Postpartum Day 7 had decreased live births ( 20 % reduction ) and pup survival to Postnatal Day 4 ( 40 % reduction ) at or greater than 3 , 000 mg / kg / day in the absence of maternal toxicity at 3 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the MRHD based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
In pregnant rats given oral doses of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( 1 , 000 , 3 , 000 , or 6 , 000 mg / kg / day ) during organogenesis , no adverse effects were observed in fetuses at a maternally toxic dose ( increased food consumption ) of 6 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 14 times the MRHD based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
In pregnant rats given oral doses of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( 100 , 600 , or 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ) from Gestation Day 14 through Lactation Day 21 , no adverse effects were observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
In pregnant rabbits given oral doses of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ( 375 , 750 , or 1 , 500 mg / kg / day ) during organogenesis , no adverse effects were observed in fetuses given 375 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
However , at higher doses , increases in fetal skeletal variations and reduced fetal growth were evident at maternally toxic doses ( reduced food consumption and body weight gain ) greater than or equal to 750 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the MRHD ) , and embryolethality was evident at 1 , 500 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the MRHD ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Published studies have detected omega - 3 fatty acids , including EPA and DHA , in human milk .
Lactating women receiving oral omega - 3 fatty acids for supplementation have resulted in higher levels of omega - 3 fatty acids in human milk .
There are no data available on the effects of omega - 3 fatty acid ethyl esters on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A limited number of subjects older than 65 years were enrolled in the clinical trials of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Safety and efficacy findings in subjects older than 60 years did not appear to differ from those of subjects younger than 60 years .
11 DESCRIPTION Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP , a lipid - regulating agent , are supplied as a liquid - filled gel capsule for oral administration .
Each 1 - gram capsule of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP contains at least 900 mg of the ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils .
These are predominantly a combination of ethyl esters of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA - approximately 465 mg ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA - approximately 375 mg ) .
The molecular formula of EPA ethyl ester is C22H34O2 , and the molecular weight of EPA ethyl ester is 330 . 51 .
The structural formula of EPA ethyl ester is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of DHA ethyl ester is C24H36O2 , and the molecular weight of DHA ethyl ester is 356 . 55 .
The structural formula of DHA ethyl ester is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP also contain the following inactive ingredients : 4 mg α - tocopherol ( in a carrier of soybean oil ) , and gelatin , glycerin , purified water , and white ink ( components of the capsule shell ) .
The capsule imprinting ink contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters is not completely understood .
Potential mechanisms of action include inhibition of acyl - CoA : 1 , 2 - diacylglycerol acyltransferase , increased mitochondrial and peroxisomal β - oxidation in the liver , decreased lipogenesis in the liver , and increased plasma lipoprotein lipase activity .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters may reduce the synthesis of TG in the liver because EPA and DHA are poor substrates for the enzymes responsible for TG synthesis , and EPA and DHA inhibit esterification of other fatty acids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In healthy volunteers and in subjects with hypertriglyceridemia , EPA and DHA were absorbed when administered as ethyl esters orally .
Omega - 3 - acids administered as ethyl esters induced significant dose - dependent increases in serum phospholipid EPA content , though increases in DHA content were less marked and not dose - dependent when administered as ethyl esters .
Specific Populations Age : Uptake of EPA and DHA into serum phospholipids in subjects treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters was independent of age ( younger than 49 years versus 49 years and older ) .
Male and Female Patients : Females tended to have more uptake of EPA into serum phospholipids than males .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
Pediatric Patients : Pharmacokinetics of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have not been studied .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies Simvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 24 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of simvastatin 80 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect the extent ( AUC ) or rate ( Cmax ) of exposure to simvastatin or the major active metabolite , beta - hydroxy simvastatin , at steady state .
Atorvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 50 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of atorvastatin 80 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect AUC or Cmax of exposure to atorvastatin , 2 - hydroxyatorvastatin , or 4 - hydroxyatorvastatin at steady state .
Rosuvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 48 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of rosuvastatin 40 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect AUC or Cmax of exposure to rosuvastatin at steady state .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that clinically significant cytochrome P450 - mediated inhibition by EPA / DHA combinations are not expected in humans .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a rat carcinogenicity study with oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters for 101 weeks and females for 89 weeks without an increased incidence of tumors ( up to 5 times human systemic exposures following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Standard lifetime carcinogenicity bioassays were not conducted in mice .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) test with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli or in the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster V79 lung cells or human lymphocytes .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In a rat fertility study with oral doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated for 10 weeks prior to mating and females were treated for 2 weeks prior to mating and through lactation .
No adverse effect on fertility was observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD of 4 grams / day based on body surface area [ mg / m2 ] ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams per day were assessed in 2 randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel - group trials of 84 adult subjects ( 42 on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , 42 on placebo ) with very high TG levels .
Subjects whose baseline TG levels were between 500 and 2 , 000 mg / dL were enrolled in these 2 trials of 6 and 16 weeks ' duration .
The median TG and LDL - C levels in these subjects were 792 mg / dL and 100 mg / dL , respectively .
Median high - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL - C ) level was 23 . 0 mg / dL .
The changes in the major lipoprotein lipid parameters for the groups receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or placebo are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Median Baseline and Percent Change from Baseline in Lipid Parameters in Subjects With Severe Hypertriglyceridemia ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) Parameter Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters n = 42 Placebo n = 42 Difference BL % Change BL % Change TG 816 - 44 . 9 788 + 6 . 7 - 51 . 6 Non - HDL - C 271 - 13 . 8 292 - 3 . 6 - 10 . 2 TC 296 - 9 . 7 314 - 1 . 7 - 8 . 0 VLDL - C 175 - 41 . 7 175 - 0 . 9 - 40 . 8 HDL - C 22 + 9 . 1 24 0 . 0 + 9 . 1 LDL - C 89 + 44 . 5 108 - 4 . 8 + 49 . 3 BL = Baseline ( mg / dL ) ; % Change = Median Percent Change from Baseline ; Difference = omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters Median % Change - Placebo Median % Change ; TC = Total cholesterol ; VLDL - C = Very - low - density lipoprotein ( VLDL ) cholesterol .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams per day reduced median TG , VLDL - C , and non - HDL - C levels and increased median HDL - C from baseline relative to placebo .
Treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters to reduce very high TG levels may result in elevations in LDL - C and non - HDL - C in some individuals .
Patients should be monitored to ensure that the LDL - C level does not increase excessively .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters on the risk of pancreatitis has not been determined .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3421 NDC : 50090 - 3421 - 1 120 CAPSULE , LIQUID FILLED in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Information for Patients • Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to fish and / or shellfish [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients that use of lipid - regulating agents does not reduce the importance of adhering to diet [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients not to alter omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules in any way and to ingest intact capsules only [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , advise patients to take it as soon as they remember .
However , if they miss one day of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , they should not double the dose when they take it .
APOTEX INC .
Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters Capsules , USP 1 gram Manufactured in Canada for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , FL .
33326 USA Revision : 6 Revised : October 2020 PATIENT INFORMATION Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters ( oh - may - ga - as - id - eth - il - es - ters ) Capsules , USP What areomega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are a prescription medicine used along with a low fat and low cholesterol diet to lower very high triglyceride ( fat ) levels in adults .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules change your risk of having inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules prevent you from having a heart attack or stroke .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Do not take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules if you are allergic to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or any of the ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Before taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have diabetes .
• have a low thyroid problem ( hypothyroidism ) .
• have a liver problem .
• have a pancreas problem .
• have a certain heart rhythm problem called atrial fibrillation or flutter .
• are allergic to fish or shellfish .
It is not known if people who are allergic to fish or shellfish are also allergic to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules can interact with certain other medicines that you are taking .
Using omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules with medicines that affect blood clotting ( anticoagulants or blood thinners ) may cause serious side effects .
How should I take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
• Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• You should not take more than 4 capsules of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules each day .
Either take all 4 capsules at one time , or 2 capsules two times a day .
• Do not change your dose or stop omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules without talking to your healthcare provider .
• Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules with food .
• Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve , or chew omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole , tell your healthcare provider .
You may need a different medicine .
• If you miss a dose of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , take the missed dose as soon as you remember .
If you miss one day of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , do not double your dose the next time you take it .
• Your healthcare provider may start you on a cholesterol - lowering diet before giving you omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Stay on this diet while taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Stay on this diet while taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
• Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your triglyceride , bad cholesterol ( LDL - C ) and liver function ( ALT and AST ) levels while you take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
What are the possible side effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules may cause serious side effects , including : • changes in certain blood tests .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules may cause an increase in the results of blood tests used to check your liver function and your bad cholesterol levels .
• increased risk of a heart rhythm problem in people who have a heart rhythm problem .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules may cause an increase in the frequency of a heart rhythm problem ( atrial fibrillation or flutter ) , especially in the first few months of taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , if you already have a heart rhythm problem .
The most common side effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules include : • burping • upset stomach • a change in your sense of taste These are not all the possible side effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
• Store omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules at room temperature , 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
• Do not freeze omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Active Ingredient : omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , mostly EPA and DHA Inactive Ingredients : alpha - tocopherol ( in soybean oil ) , gelatin , glycerin , purified water and white ink .
The capsule imprinting ink contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
This patient labeling has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
APOTEX INC .
Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters Capsules , USP 1 gram Manufactured in Canada for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , FL .
33326 USA Revision : 6 Revised : October 2020 OMEGA - 3 - ACID ETHYL ESTERS ( OMEGA - 3 - ACID ETHYL ESTERS ) CAPSULE , LIQUID FILLED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
