Cupric Chloride Injection , USP FOR I . V . USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Plastic Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to intravenous solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL of solution contains 1 . 07 mg cupric chloride , dihydrate and 9 mg sodium chloride .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH is 2 . 0 ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 ) ; product may contain hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolarity is 0 . 327 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
Cupric chloride , USP is chemically designated cupric chloride , dihydrate ( CuCl2 • 2H2O ) , a crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The small amount of water vapor that can pass through the plastic container wall will not significantly alter the drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Copper is an essential nutrient which serves as a cofactor for serum ceruloplasmin , an oxidase necessary for proper formation of the iron carrier protein , transferrin .
Copper also helps maintain normal rates of red and white blood cell formation .
Providing copper during TPN helps prevent development of the following deficiency symptoms : Leukopenia , neutropenia , anemia , depressed ceruloplasmin levels , impaired transferrin formation , secondary iron deficiency and osteoporosis .
Normal serum copper values range from 80 to 163 mcg / dl ( mean , approximately 110 mcg / dl ) .
The serum copper level at which deficiency symptoms appear is not precisely defined .
A serum value of 9 mcg copper / dl was reported for one TPN patient who received no copper .
The daily turnover of copper through ceruloplasmin is approximately 0 . 5 mg .
Excretion of copper is through the bile ( 80 % ) , directly through the intestinal wall ( 16 % ) and in urine ( 4 % ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration helps to maintain copper serum levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Direct intramuscular or intravenous injection of Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) is contraindicated , as the acidic pH of the solution ( 2 ) may cause considerable tissue irritation .
Liver and / or biliary tract dysfunction may require omission or reduction of copper and manganese doses because these elements are primarily eliminated in the bile .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Do not use unless the solution is clear and the seal is intact .
Administration of zinc in the absence of copper may cause a decrease in serum copper levels .
Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) should only be used in conjunction with a pharmacy directed admixture program using aseptic technique in a laminar flow environment ; it should be used promptly and in a single operation without any repeated penetrations .
Solution contains no preservatives ; discard unused portion immediately after admixture procedure is completed .
It is not recommended to administer copper to a patient with Wilson ’ s Disease , a genetic disease of copper metabolism .
Drug Interactions Cupric ion may degrade ascorbic acid in total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) solutions .
In order to avoid this loss of ascorbate , multivitamin additives should be added to TPN solutions immediately prior to infusion .
Alternatively , the multivitamin additive may be added to one container of TPN solution , followed by copper in a subsequent container .
Laboratory Tests Twice monthly serum assays for copper and / or ceruloplasmin are suggested for monitoring copper concentrations in long - term TPN patients .
As ceruloplasmin is a cuproenzyme , ceruloplasmin assays may be depressed secondary to copper deficiency .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) have not been performed , nor have studies been done to assess mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
There are limited data in infants weighing less than 1500 grams .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with cupric chloride .
It is also not known whether cupric chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Cupric chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None known .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE Copper toxicity can produce prostration , behavior change , diarrhea , progressive marasmus , hypotonia , photophobia and peripheral edema .
Such symptoms have been reported with a serum copper level of 286 mcg / dl .
Copper toxicity can also result in hemolysis and liver toxicity , including hepatic necrosis which may be fatal .
D - penicillamine has been reported effective as an antidote .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) contains 0 . 4 mg copper / mL and is administered intravenously only after dilution .
The additive should be diluted in a volume of fluid not less than 100 mL .
For the adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage is 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 mg copper / day ( 1 . 25 to 3 . 75 mL / day ) .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage is 20 mcg copper / kg / day ( 0 . 05 mL / kg / day ) .
Infants weighing less than 1500 gm may have increased requirements because of their low body reserves and increased requirements for growth .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Copper 0 . 4 mg / mL ( Cupric Chloride Injection , USP ) is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 4092 - 01 Tray containing 25 - 10 mL Single - dose Plastic Vials 4 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1067 - 2 . 0 Revised : 04 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label 10 mL Single - dose Vial NDC 0409 - 4092 - 11 COPPER Rx only 4 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) Cupric Chloride Inj . , USP FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Tray 10 mL Single - dose Vial NDC 0409 - 4092 - 01 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 4092 - 11 COPPER Rx only 4 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) CAUTION : FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Cupric Chloride Injection , USP Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
