Flexible Plastic Container Rx Only DESCRIPTION Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Injection Type 1 , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of balanced maintenance electrolytes and 5 % dextrose injection in water for injection .
The solution is administered by intravenous infusion for parenteral maintenance of routine daily fluid and electrolyte requirements with minimal carbohydrate calories .
Each 100 mL contains dextrose , hydrous 5 g , sodium chloride , 234 mg , potassium acetate , 128 mg and magnesium acetate , anhydrous 21 mg .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The electrolyte content ( not including hydrochloric acid ) and other characteristics are as follows : Sodium ( Na + ) 40 mEq / liter Potassium ( K + ) 13 mEq / liter Magnesium ( Mg + + ) 3 mEq / liter Chloride ( Cl − ) 40 mEq / liter Bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) as acetate 16 mEq / liter Caloric value ( dextrose ) 170 Calories / liter Tonicity Hypertonic Osmolarity 363 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
pH ( range ) 5 . 0 ( 4 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection is a parenteral fluid , electrolyte and nutrient replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Potassium Acetate , USP is chemically designated CH3COOK , colorless crystals or white crystalline powder very soluble in water .
Magnesium acetate is chemically designated Mg ( C2H3O2 ) 2 , colorless or white crystals very soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection provides water and electrolytes ( with dextrose as a readily available source of carbohydrate ) for maintenance of daily fluid and electrolyte requirements , plus minimal carbohydrate calories .
The electrolyte composition approaches that of the principal ions of normal plasma ( extracellular fluid ) .
The electrolyte concentration is hypotonic ( 112 mOsmol / liter ) in relation to the extracellular fluid ( 280 mOsmol / liter ) .
One liter provides approximately one - third of the average adult daily requirement for water and principal electrolytes in balanced proportions , with acetate as a bicarbonate alternate , plus 170 calories from dextrose .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and supply calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide in water .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Potassium acetate in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and acetate ( CH3COO − ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter ) in a healthy adult and child over 10 days old ; 3 . 5 to 6 . 0 mEq / liter in a child less than 10 days old .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Magnesium acetate in water dissociates to provide magnesium ( Mg + + ) and acetate ( CH3COO − ) ions .
Magnesium is the second most plentiful cation of the intracellular fluids .
It is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
Normal plasma concentration ranges from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 or 3 . 0 mEq per liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Acetate anion ( CH3COO − ) , a source of hydrogen ion acceptors , serves as an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily even in the presence of severe liver disease .
Thus , acetate anion exerts a mild systemic antiacidotic action that may be advantageous during fluid and electrolyte replacement therapy .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Average normal pediatric daily requirements are based on the child ’ s weight as described in the table below : Weight Fluid Requirements Up to 10 kg 100 mL / kg 11 to 20 kg 1 , 000 mL + 50 mL / kg for each kg above 10 kg Above 20 kg 1 , 500 mL + 20 mL / kg for each kg above 20 kg Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Injection Type 1 , USP ) is indicated for parenteral maintenance of routine daily fluid and electrolyte requirements with minimal carbohydrate calories from dextrose .
Magnesium in the formula may help to prevent iatrogenic magnesium deficiency in patients receiving prolonged parenteral therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
Solutions which contain potassium should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing acetate should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis , and in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of acetate , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
Administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate should be used with caution , as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection .
It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use .
The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates and very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection is administered by intravenous infusion .
The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
A daily total amount of 1500 mL / M2 of body surface will meet the usual adult daily requirements for water and principal electrolytes in patients unable to take anything by mouth .
The usual daily maintenance amount for an average adult ( 70 kg and 1 . 8 square meters of body surface ) is approximately three liters .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
To avoid precipitation of calcium salts that may occur when certain drugs are added , Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection does not contain calcium .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
To Add Medication • Prepare additive port .
• Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
• The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
To Administer • Attach administration set per manufacturer ’ s instructions .
• Regulate rate of administration per institutional policy .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Injection Type 1 , USP ) is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers .
NDC No .
Product Container Size ( mL ) 0409 - 7965 - 03 Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Inj . , Type 1 , USP ) 500 0990 - 7965 - 03 Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Inj . , Type 1 , USP ) 500 0409 - 7965 - 09 Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Inj . , Type 1 , USP ) 1000 0990 - 7965 - 09 Normosol - M and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Inj . , Type 1 , USP ) 1000 ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : March , 2020 IFU0000171 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Label 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 7965 - 09 NORMOSOL ® - M AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTES AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION TYPE 1 , USP EACH 100 mL CONTAINS DEXTROSE , HYDROUS 5 g ; SODIUM CHLORIDE 234 mg ; POTASSIUM ACETATE 128 mg ; MAGNESIUM ACETATE , ANHYDROUS 21 mg IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
MAY CONTAIN HYDROCHLORIC ACID FOR pH ADJUSTMENT .
ELECTROLYTES PER 1000 mL ( NOT INCLUDING pH ADJUSTMENT ) ; SODIUM 40 mEq ; POTASSIUM 13 mEq ; MAGNESIUM 3 mEq ; CHLORIDE 40 mEq ; ACETATE 16 mEq .
363 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC ) .
pH 5 . 0 ( 4 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
FOR I . V . USE .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
RX ONLY 3 V CONTAINS DEHP IMP0000054 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
