DESCRIPTION : Podocon - 25 ® is composed of Podophyllin ( Podophyllum Resin , American ) 25 % in Benzoin Tincture .
Podophyllum Resin is the powdered mixture of resins removed from the May apple or Mandrake ( PodophyllumpeltatumLinne ’ ) , a perennial plant of northern and middle United States ( 1 ) .
The podophyllin resin used in this product is exclusively the American podophyllin ( rather than the Indian resin ) .
American podophyllin typically has a reduced level of podophyllotoxin ( see below ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Podophyllin is a cytotoxic agent that has been used topically in the treatment of genital warts .
It arrests mitosis in metaphase , an effect it shares with other cytotoxic agents such as the vinca alkaloids ( 2 ) .
The active agent is podophyllotoxin , whose concentration varies with the type of podophyllin used ; the American source normally containing one - fourth the amount of podophyllotoxin as the Indian source ( 3 ) .
NOTE : PODOCON - 25 ® IS TO BE APPLIED ONLY BY A PHYSICIAN .
IT IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED TO THE PATIENT .
INDICATIONS : Podocon - 25 ® ( 25 % podophyllin in benzoin tincture ) is indicated for the removal of soft genital ( venereal ) warts ( condylomata acuminata ) ( 4 ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Podocon - 25 ® is contraindicated in diabetics , patients using steroids or with poor blood circulation .
Podocon - 25 ® should not be used on bleeding warts , moles , birthmarks or unusual warts with hair growing from them .
It is recommended that Podocon - 25 ® not be used during pregnancy ( see Pregnancy warning below ) .
WARNINGS : Podophyllin is a powerful caustic and severe irritant .
Keep away from the eyes ; if eye contact occurs , flush with copious amounts of warm water and consult physician or poison control center immediately for advice .
PRECAUTIONS : Do not use Podocon - 25 ® if wart or surrounding tissue is inflamed or irritated .
Do not use on bleeding warts , moles , birthmarks or unusual warts with hair growing from them .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The use of topical podophyllin has been known to result in paresthesia , polyneuritis , paralytic ileus , pyrexia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , coma and death ( 5 ) .
Pregnancy : There have been reports of complications associated with the topical use of podophyllin on condylomata of pregnant patients including birth defects , fetal death and stillbirth ( 6 ) .
In the absence of controlled safety studies , podophyllin remains contraindicated for use on pregnant patients .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether podophyllin is excreted in human milk following topical application .
In the absence of controlled safety studies , podophyllin remains contraindicated for use on nursing patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : PODOCON - 25 ® IS TO BE APPLIED ONLY BY A PHYSICIAN .
IT IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED TO THE PATIENT .
SHAKE WELL .
Thoroughly cleanse affected area .
Use supplied applicator to apply Podocon - 25 ® sparingly to lesion .
Avoid contact with healthy tissue .
Allow to dry thoroughly .
Only intact ( no bleeding ) lesions should be treated .
As podophyllin is a powerful caustic and severe irritant , it is recommended the first application of Podocon - 25 ® be left in contact for only a short time ( 30 - 40 minutes ) to determine patient ’ s sensitivity .
To avoid systemic absorption , time of contact should be minimum time necessary to produce the desired result ( 1 to 4 hours , depending on condition of lesion and of patient ) , the physician developing his / her own experience and technique .
Large areas or numerous warts should not be treated at once .
After treatment time has elapsed , remove dried Podocon - 25 ® thoroughly with alcohol or soap and water .
HOW SUPPLIED Podocon - 25 ® is available in 15 - mL bottles with tapered tip applicator attached inside cap .
NDC 0574 - 0601 - 15 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] in tight , light - resistant containers .
Rx Only 1 ) Blumgarten , A . F . : Text Book of Materia Medica , Pharmacology and Therapeutics ; Ed .
7 , New York , The Macmillan Company , 1937 , pp . 220 and 223 .
2 ) Green , L . K . , Klima , M . , Burns , T . ; Arch Dermatol .
Vol 124 , Nov 1988 , p . 1718 .
3 ) Martindale , 28 th Ed .
London , 1982 , pp . 1366 , 1367 .
4 ) Medical Letter ; Vol 26 , New Rochelle , N . Y . , 1984 , p10 .
5 ) Fisher : Severe Systemic and Local Reactions to Topical Podophyllum Resins ; Cutis , Volume 28 , 1981 .
6 ) Zackheim : Hazards of Topical Mitotic - Blocking Agents ; Arch .
Dermat .
Volume 113 , 1977 .
Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 2124075 ( 05 - 12 ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 0574 - 0601 - 15 Podocon - 25 ® ( 25 % Podophyllin in benzoin tincture ) Topical solution for removal of venereal warts ( condylomata acuminata ) NOTE : Podocon - 25 ® is to be applied only by a physician .
It is not to be dispensed to the patient .
15 mL ( 1 / 2 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
