Active ingredient ( in each 2 . 7 mL average delivered dose ) Glycerin 2 . 8 g Purpose Hyperosmotic laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 4 to 1 hour Warnings For rectal use only May cause rectal discomfort or a burning sensation .
Ask a doctor before using any laxative if the child has • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits lasting more than 2 weeks • already used a laxative for more than 1 week • if constipation continues after one week of use , contact your child ' s doctor Stop using this product and consult a doctor if the child has • rectal bleeding • no bowel movement within 1 hour of using this product These symptoms may indicate a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Single Daily Dosage ( per 24 hours ) children 2 to under 6 years : one suppository per day or as directed by a doctor children under 2 years : consult a doctor Administering the laxative : CAUTION : REMOVE ORANGE PROTECTIVE SHIELD BEFORE INSERTING .
Hold unit upright , grasping bulb of unit with fingers .
Grasp orange protective shield with other hand , pull gently to remove .
With steady pressure , gently insert tip into rectum with a slight side - to - side movement , with tip pointing toward navel .
Discontinue use if resistance is encountered .
Forcing the tip can result in injury .
Insertion may be easier if child receiving suppository bears down as if having a bowel movement .
This helps relax the muscles around the anus .
Squeeze the bulb until nearly all liquid is expelled .
While continuing to squeeze the bulb , remove tip from rectum and discard unit .
It is not necessary to empty unit completely .
The unit contains more than the amount of liquid needed for effective use .
A small amount of liquid will remain in the unit after squeezing .
Left - side position : Place child on left side with knees bent and arms resting comfortably .
Knee - chest position : Have child kneel , then lower head and chest forward until left side of face is resting on surface with left arm folded comfortably .
Other information carton sealed for safety .
If seal with Fleet emblem on bottom flap or top flap is broken or missing , do not use .
Inactive ingredients edetate disodium , purified water Questions ?
1 - 866 - 255 - 6960 or www . pedia - lax . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Baby Care Pedia - Lax ® Liquid glycerin suppositories rectal laxative 6 applicators ( 4 ml each ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
