Drug Facts Active ingredients Glycerin 9 . 01 % Menthol 0 . 40 % Purpose Oral demulcent Oral Pain Reliever Uses For the temporary relief of • occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , sore throat • pain associated with canker sores • minor discomfort and protection of irritated areas in sore mouth and sore throat • pain due to minor dental procedures , minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums Warnings Do not use full strength , dilute with two or three volumes of water .
Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist • if sore throat is severe , persists more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting • if sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
If an excessive amount of gel is accidentally swallowed or in case of allergic reaction , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply the gel diluted with 2 or 3 parts of water to the affected area .
Gargle , swish around in the mouth or allow to remain in place for at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age : Should be supervised in the use of this product .
• Children under 3 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Inactive ingredients Aloe vera ( Aloe barbandesis ) leaf extract , Ascorbic acid , Calcium glycerophosphate , Cellulose gum , Eucalyptus oil , Grapefruit ( Citrus paradisi ) extract , Green tea ( Camellia sinensis ) leaf extract , Hydrated silica , PEG - 32 , Peppermint oil , Pot Marigold ( Calendula offcinalis ) leaf extract , Propolis extract , Sorbitol , Steviol glycosides , Tocopheryl acetate , Water , Xylitol .
Other information • Store at room temperature ( 1 - 30 ° C ) – ( 34 - 86 ° F ) .
• Do not use if seal under cap is broken or missing .
Questions ?
Tel : + 82 - 2 - 474 - 82224 Mon - Fri ( 8 am - 5 pm ) .
Technology provider and distributer : NanoCureTech Co . Ltd . # 502 , 24 , Yeokjeon - gil , Yangpyenong - eup , Yangpyenog - gu , Gyonggido , South Korea , Zip Code : 134 - 864 .
Country of origin : South Korea Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
