Drug Facts Active Ingredients Menthol 1 . 25 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses : temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do not use : ■ on wounds , damaged , broken , or irritated skin ■ with a heating pad ■ on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions .
Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product ■ avoid contact with eyes or mucous membrane ■ do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental ingestion .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions ■ use only as directed ■ adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily ■ children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor before use Other information : ■ Store at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients : Benzyl Alcohol , Cananga Odorata ( Ylang Ylang ) Flower Oil , Caprylic / Capric Trigl - yceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Oil , Citrus Aurantium Bergamia ( Bergamot ) Fruit Oil , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil , Crambe Abyssinica Seed Oil , Cymbopogon Schoenanthus Oil , Ethyl - hexylglycerin , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Helichrysum Italicum Flower Oil , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Lecithin , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Oil , Mentha Viridis ( Spearmint ) Leaf Oil , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , PEG - 6 , Phenoxyethanol , Pogostemon Cablin ( Patchouli ) Oil , Polyglyceryl - 3 Ricinoleate , Salvia Sclarea ( Clary Sage ) Oil , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Water / Aqua Principal Display Package Labeling SanaMax PLUS BALANCED FORMULA SanaMax PLUS PAIN RELIEF CREAM Temporary relief from backache , minor arthritis , muscle and joint pain .
Quick Absorbing Paraben Free Non Staining Non - Greasy Non - Burning Fast Relief Relaxing Scent Calming Effect DOCTOR RECOMMENDED WITH 12 ESSENTIAL OILS NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) SanaMax PLUS PAIN RELIEF CREAM SanaMax Plus is trusted by medical doctors , pharmacists , physical therapists , chiropractors , massage therapists , podiatrists , and athletic trainers .
It applies easily and penetrates quickly for fast temporary relief from sore muscles , backaches , sore joints , and arthritis .
SanaMax Plus is a balanced formula that contains 12 essential oils .
It is quick absorbing but is not greasy , does not stain , has a relaxing scent , a calming effect , and does not burn .
SanaMax Plus is not tested on animals , is made in the USA with USP grade ingredients , is free of parabens , and propylene glycol .
Distributed by : Questions or Comments SanaMax Plus LLC sanamaxplus . com McAllen , TX 78501 NDC 72425 - 201 - 02 8 60473 00240 2 PE 2020 / 013 VER 01 BOX [ MULTIMEDIA ] TUBE [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
