DESCRIPTION MYCOBUTIN Capsules for oral administration contain 150 mg of the rifamycin antimycobacterial agent rifabutin , USP , per capsule , along with the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , red iron oxide , silica gel , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and edible white ink .
The chemical name for rifabutin is 1 ' , 4 - didehydro - 1 - deoxy - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 5 ' - ( 2 - methylpropyl ) - 1 - oxorifamycin XIV ( Chemical Abstracts Service , 9 th Collective Index ) or ( 9 S , 12 E , 14 S , 15 R , 16 S , 17 R , 18 R , 19 R , 20 S , 21 S , 22 E , 24 Z ) - 6 , 16 , 18 , 20 - tetrahydroxy - 1 ' - isobutyl - 14 - methoxy - 7 , 9 , 15 , 17 , 19 , 21 , 25 - heptamethyl - spiro [ 9 , 4 - ( epoxypentadeca [ 1 , 11 , 13 ] trienimino ) - 2 H - furo [ 2 ' , 3 ' : 7 , 8 ] naphth [ 1 , 2 - d ] imidazole - 2 , 4 ' - piperidine ] - 5 , 10 , 26 - ( 3 H , 9 H ) - trione - 16 - acetate .
Rifabutin has a molecular formula of C 46 H 62 N 4 O 11 , a molecular weight of 847 . 02 and the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rifabutin is a red - violet powder soluble in chloroform and methanol , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and very slightly soluble in water ( 0 . 19 mg / mL ) .
Its log P value ( the base 10 logarithm of the partition coefficient between n - octanol and water ) is 3 . 2 ( n - octanol / water ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single oral dose of 300 mg to nine healthy adult volunteers , rifabutin was readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with mean ( ± SD ) peak plasma levels ( C max ) of 375 ( ± 267 ) ng / mL ( range : 141 to 1033 ng / mL ) attained in 3 . 3 ( ± 0 . 9 ) hours ( T max range : 2 to 4 hours ) .
Absolute bioavailability assessed in five HIV - positive patients , who received both oral and intravenous doses , averaged 20 % .
Total recovery of radioactivity in the urine indicates that at least 53 % of the orally administered rifabutin dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The bioavailability of rifabutin from the capsule dosage form , relative to an oral solution , was 85 % in 12 healthy adult volunteers .
High - fat meals slow the rate without influencing the extent of absorption from the capsule dosage form .
Plasma concentrations post - C max declined in an apparent biphasic manner .
Pharmacokinetic dose - proportionality was established over the 300 mg to 600 mg dose range in nine healthy adult volunteers ( crossover design ) and in 16 early symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) - positive patients over a 300 mg to 900 mg dose range .
Distribution Due to its high lipophilicity , rifabutin demonstrates a high propensity for distribution and intracellular tissue uptake .
Following intravenous dosing , estimates of apparent steady - state distribution volume ( 9 . 3 ± 1 . 5 L / kg ) in five HIV - positive patients exceeded total body water by approximately 15 - fold .
Substantially higher intracellular tissue levels than those seen in plasma have been observed in both rat and man .
The lung - to - plasma concentration ratio , obtained at 12 hours , was approximately 6 . 5 in four surgical patients who received an oral dose .
Mean rifabutin steady - state trough levels ( C p , minss ; 24 - hour post - dose ) ranged from 50 to 65 ng / mL in HIV - positive patients and in healthy adult volunteers .
About 85 % of the drug is bound in a concentration - independent manner to plasma proteins over a concentration range of 0 . 05 to 1 µg / mL .
Binding does not appear to be influenced by renal or hepatic dysfunction .
Rifabutin was slowly eliminated from plasma in seven healthy adult volunteers , presumably because of distribution - limited elimination , with a mean terminal half - life of 45 ( ± 17 ) hours ( range : 16 to 69 hours ) .
Although the systemic levels of rifabutin following multiple dosing decreased by 38 % , its terminal half - life remained unchanged .
Metabolism Of the five metabolites that have been identified , 25 - O - desacetyl and 31 - hydroxy are the most predominant , and show a plasma metabolite : parent area under the curve ratio of 0 . 10 and 0 . 07 , respectively .
The former has an activity equal to the parent drug and contributes up to 10 % to the total antimicrobial activity .
Excretion A mass - balance study in three healthy adult volunteers with 14 C - labeled rifabutin showed that 53 % of the oral dose was excreted in the urine , primarily as metabolites .
About 30 % of the dose is excreted in the feces .
Mean systemic clearance ( CL s / F ) in healthy adult volunteers following a single oral dose was 0 . 69 ( ± 0 . 32 ) L / hr / kg ( range : 0 . 46 to 1 . 34 L / hr / kg ) .
Renal and biliary clearance of unchanged drug each contribute approximately 5 % to CL s / F .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Geriatric Compared to healthy volunteers , steady - state kinetics of MYCOBUTIN are more variable in elderly patients ( > 70 years ) .
Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of MYCOBUTIN have not been studied in subjects under 18 years of age .
Renal Impairment The disposition of rifabutin ( 300 mg ) was studied in 18 patients with varying degrees of renal function .
Area under plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) increased by about 71 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min ) compared to patients with creatinine clearance ( Cr cl ) between 61 – 74 mL / min .
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( Cr cl between 30 – 61 mL / min ) , the AUC increased by about 41 % .
In patients with severe renal impairment , carefully monitor for rifabutin associated adverse events .
A reduction in the dosage of rifabutin is recommended for patients with Cr cl < 30 mL / min if toxicity is suspected ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Impairment Mild hepatic impairment does not require a dose modification .
The pharmacokinetics of rifabutin in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment is not known .
Malabsorption in HIV - Infected Patients Alterations in gastric pH due to progressing HIV disease has been linked with malabsorption of some drugs used in HIV - positive patients ( e . g . , rifampin , isoniazid ) .
Drug serum concentrations data from AIDS patients with varying disease severity ( basedon CD4 + counts ) suggests that rifabutin absorption is not influenced by progressing HIV disease .
Drug - Drug Interactions ( see also PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) Multiple dosing of rifabutin has been associated with induction of hepatic metabolic enzymes of the CYP3A subfamily .
Rifabutin ' s predominant metabolite ( 25 - desacetyl rifabutin : LM565 ) , may also contribute to this effect .
Metabolic induction due to rifabutin is likely to produce a decrease in plasma concentrations of concomitantly administered drugs that are primarily metabolized by the CYP3A enzymes .
Similarly concomitant medications that competitively inhibit the CYP3A activity may increase plasma concentrations of rifabutin .
CLINICAL STUDIES Two randomized , double - blind clinical trials ( Study 023 and Study 027 ) compared MYCOBUTIN ( 300 mg / day ) to placebo in patients with CDC - defined AIDS and CD4 counts ≤ 200 cells / µL .
These studies accrued patients from 2 / 90 through 2 / 92 .
Study 023 enrolled 590 patients , with a median CD4 cell count at study entry of 42 cells / µL ( mean 61 ) .
Study 027 enrolled 556 patients with a median CD4 cell count at study entry of 40 cells / µL ( mean 58 ) .
Endpoints included the following : • MAC bacteremia , defined as at least one blood culture positive for Mycobacterium avium complex ( MAC ) bacteria .
• Clinically significant disseminated MAC disease , defined as MAC bacteremia accompanied by signs or symptoms of serious MAC infection , including one or more of the following : fever , night sweats , rigors , weight loss , worsening anemia , and / or elevations in alkaline phosphatase .
• Survival .
MAC Bacteremia Participants who received MYCOBUTIN were one - third to one - half as likely to develop MAC bacteremia as were participants who received placebo .
These results were statistically significant ( Study 023 : p < 0 . 001 ; Study 027 : p = 0 . 002 ) .
In Study 023 , the one - year cumulative incidence of MAC bacteremia , on an intent to treat basis , was 9 % for patients randomized to MYCOBUTIN and 22 % for patients randomized to placebo .
In Study 027 , these rates were 13 % and 28 % for patients receiving MYCOBUTIN and placebo , respectively .
Most cases of MAC bacteremia ( approximately 90 % in these studies ) occurred among participants whose CD4 count at study entry was ≤ 100 cells / µL .
The median and mean CD4 counts at onset of MAC bacteremia were 13 cells / µL and 24 cells / µL , respectively .
These studies did not investigate the optimal time to begin MAC prophylaxis .
Clinically Significant Disseminated MAC Disease In association with the decreased incidence of bacteremia , patients on MYCOBUTIN showed reductions in the signs and symptoms of disseminated MAC disease , including fever , night sweats , weight loss , fatigue , abdominal pain , anemia , and hepatic dysfunction .
Survival The one - year survival rates in Study 023 were 77 % for the group receiving MYCOBUTIN and 77 % for the placebo group .
In Study 027 , the one - year survival rates were 77 % for the group receiving MYCOBUTIN and 70 % for the placebo group .
These differences were not statistically significant .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Rifabutin inhibits DNA - dependent RNA polymerase in susceptible strains of Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis but not in mammalian cells .
In resistant strains of E . coli , rifabutin , like rifampin , did not inhibit this enzyme .
It is not known whether rifabutin inhibits DNA - dependent RNA polymerase in Mycobacterium avium or in M . intracellulare which comprise M . avium complex ( MAC ) .
Susceptibility Testing In vitro susceptibility testing methods and diagnostic products used for determining minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) values against M . avium complex ( MAC ) organisms have not been standardized .
Breakpoints to determine whether clinical isolates of MAC and other mycobacterial species are susceptible or resistant to rifabutin have not been established .
In Vitro Studies Rifabutin has demonstrated in vitro activity against M . avium complex ( MAC ) organisms isolated from both HIV - positive and HIV - negative people .
While - gene probe techniques may be used to identify these two organisms , many reported studies did not distinguish between these two species .
The vast majority of isolates from MAC - infected , HIV - positive people are M . avium , whereas in HIV - negative people , about 40 % of the MAC isolates are M . intracellulare .
Various in vitro methodologies employing broth or solid media , with and without polysorbate 80 ( Tween 80 ) , have been used to determine rifabutin MIC values for mycobacterial species .
In general , MIC values determined in broth are several fold lower than that observed with methods employing solid media .
Utilization of Tween 80 in these assays has been shown to further lower MIC values .
However , MIC values were substantially higher for egg - based compared to agar - based solid media .
Rifabutin activity against 211 MAC isolates from HIV - positive people was evaluated in vitro utilizing a radiometric broth and an agar dilution method .
Results showed that 78 % and 82 % of these isolates had MIC 99 values of ≤ 0 . 25 µg / mL and ≤ 1 . 0 µg / mL , respectively , when evaluated by these two methods .
Rifabutin was also shown to be active against phagocytized , M . avium complex in a mouse macrophage cell culture model .
Rifabutin has in vitro activity against many strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis .
In one study , utilizing the radiometric broth method , each of 17 and 20 rifampin - naive clinical isolates tested from the United States and Taiwan , respectively , were shown to be susceptible to rifabutin concentrations of ≤ 0 . 125 µg / mL .
Cross - resistance between rifampin and rifabutin is commonly observed with M . tuberculosis and M . avium complex isolates .
Isolates of M . tuberculosis resistant to rifampin are likely to be resistant to rifabutin .
Rifampicin and rifabutin MIC 99 values against 523 isolates of M . avium complex were determined utilizing the agar dilution method ( Heifets , Leonid B . and Iseman , Michael D . Determination of in vitro susceptibility of Mycobacteria to Ansamycin .
Am .
Rev . Respir .
Dis .
1985 ; 132 ( 3 ) : 710 – 711 ) .
Table 1 Susceptibility of M . Avium Complex Strains to Rifampin and Rifabutin % of Strains Susceptible / Resistant to Different Concentrations of Rifabutin ( μg / mL ) Susceptibility to Rifampin ( µg / mL ) Number of Strains Susceptible to 0 . 5 Resistant to 0 . 5 only Resistant to 1 . 0 Resistant to 2 . 0 Susceptible to 1 . 0 30 100 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 Resistant to 1 . 0 only 163 88 . 3 11 . 7 0 . 0 0 . 0 Resistant to 5 . 0 105 38 . 0 57 . 1 2 . 9 2 . 0 Resistant to 10 . 0 225 20 . 0 50 . 2 19 . 6 10 . 2 TOTAL 523 49 . 5 36 . 7 9 . 0 4 . 8 Rifabutin in vitro MIC 99 values of ≤ 0 . 5 µg / mL , determined by the agar dilution method , for M . kansasii , M . gordonae and M . marinum have been reported ; however , the clinical significance of these results is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE MYCOBUTIN Capsules are indicated for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex ( MAC ) disease in patients with advanced HIV infection .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MYCOBUTIN Capsules are contraindicated in patients who have had clinically significant hypersensitivity to rifabutin or to any other rifamycins .
WARNINGS Tuberculosis MYCOBUTIN Capsules must not be administered for MAC prophylaxis to patients with active tuberculosis .
Patients who develop complaints consistent with active tuberculosis while on prophylaxis with MYCOBUTIN should be evaluated immediately , so that those with active disease may be given an effective combination regimen of anti - tuberculosis medications .
Administration of MYCOBUTIN as a single agent to patients with active tuberculosis is likely to lead to the development of tuberculosis that is resistant both to MYCOBUTIN and to rifampin .
There is no evidence that MYCOBUTIN is an effective prophylaxis against M . tuberculosis .
Patients requiring prophylaxis against both M . tuberculosis and Mycobacterium avium complex may be given isoniazid and MYCOBUTIN concurrently .
Tuberculosis in HIV - positive patients is common and may present with atypical or extrapulmonary findings .
Patients are likely to have a nonreactive purified protein derivative ( PPD ) despite active disease .
In addition to chest X - ray and sputum culture , the following studies may be useful in the diagnosis of tuberculosis in the HIV - positive patient : blood culture , urine culture , or biopsy of a suspicious lymph node .
MAC Treatment with Clarithromycin When MYCOBUTIN is used concomitantly with clarithromycin for MAC treatment , a decreased dose of MYCOBUTIN is recommended due to the increase in plasma concentrations of MYCOBUTIN ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions , Table 2 ) .
Hypersensitivity and Related Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions may occur in patients receiving rifamycins .
Signs and symptoms of these reactions may include hypotension , urticaria , angioedema , acute bronchospasm , conjunctivitis , thrombocytopenia , neutropenia or flu - like syndrome ( weakness , fatigue , muscle pain , nausea , vomiting , headache , fever , chills , aches , rash , itching , sweats , dizziness , shortness of breath , chest pain , cough , syncope , palpitations ) .
There have been reports of anaphylaxis with the use of rifamycins .
Monitor patients receiving MYCOBUTIN therapy for signs and / or symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions .
If these symptoms occur , administer supportive measures and discontinue MYCOBUTIN .
Uveitis Due to the possible occurrence of uveitis , patients should also be carefully monitored when MYCOBUTIN is given in combination with clarithromycin ( or other macrolides ) and / or fluconazole and related compounds ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions , Table 2 ) .
If uveitis is suspected , the patient should be referred to an ophthalmologist and , if considered necessary , treatment with MYCOBUTIN should be suspended ( see also ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including MYCOBUTIN ( rifabutin ) Capsules , USP , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Protease Inhibitor Drug Interaction Protease inhibitors act as substrates or inhibitors of CYP3A4 mediated metabolism .
Therefore , due to significant drug - drug interactions between protease inhibitors and rifabutin , their concomitant use should be based on the overall assessment of the patient and a patient - specific drug profile .
The concomitant use of protease inhibitors may require at least a 50 % reduction in rifabutin dose , and depending on the protease inhibitor , an adjustment of the antiviral drug dose .
Increased monitoring for adverse events is recommended when using these drug combinations ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
For further recommendations , please refer to current , official product monographs of the protease inhibitor or contact the specific manufacturer .
PRECAUTIONS General Because treatment with MYCOBUTIN Capsules may be associated with neutropenia , and more rarely thrombocytopenia , physicians should consider obtaining hematologic studies periodically in patients receiving prophylaxis with MYCOBUTIN .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms of both MAC and tuberculosis , and should be instructed to consult their physicians if they develop new complaints consistent with either of these diseases .
In addition , since MYCOBUTIN may rarely be associated with myositis and uveitis , patients should be advised to notify their physicians if they develop signs or symptoms suggesting either of these disorders .
Urine , feces , saliva , sputum , perspiration , tears , and skin may be colored brown - orange with rifabutin and some of its metabolites .
Soft contact lenses may be permanently stained .
Patients to be treated with MYCOBUTIN should be made aware of these possibilities .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes , after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Effect of Rifabutin on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs Rifabutin induces CYP3A enzymes and therefore may reduce the plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by those enzymes .
This effect may reduce the efficacy of standard doses of such drugs , which include itraconazole , clarithromycin , and saquinavir .
Effect of Other Drugs on Rifabutin Pharmacokinetics Some drugs that inhibit CYP3A may significantly increase the plasma concentration of rifabutin .
Therefore , carefully monitor for rifabutin associated adverse events in those patients also receiving CYP3A inhibitors , which include fluconazole and clarithromycin .
In some cases , the dosage of MYCOBUTIN may need to be reduced when it is coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors .
Table 2 summarizes the results and magnitude of the pertinent drug interactions assessed with rifabutin .
The clinical relevance of these interactions and subsequent dose modifications should be judged in light of the population studied , severity of the disease , patient ' s drug profile , and the likely impact on the risk / benefit ratio .
Table 2 Rifabutin Interaction StudiesCoadministered drug Dosing regimen of coadministered drug Dosing regimen of rifabutin Study population ( n ) Effect on rifabutin Effect on coadministered drug Recommendation ↑ indicates increase ; ↓ indicates decrease ; ↔ indicates no significant change QD - once daily ; BID - twice daily ; TID – thrice daily ND - No Data AUC - Area under the Concentration vs . Time Curve ; C max - Maximum serum concentration ANTIVIRALS Amprenavir 1200 mg BID × 10 days 300 mg QD × 10 days Healthy male subjects ( 6 ) ↑ AUC by 193 % , ↑ Cmax by 119 % ↔ Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 50 % .
Monitor closely for adverse reactions .
Delavirdine 400 mg TID 300 mg QD HIV - infected patients ( 7 ) ↑ AUC by 230 % , ↑ Cmax by 128 % ↓ AUC by 80 % , ↓ Cmax by 75 % , ↓ Cmin by 17 % CONTRAINDICATED Didanosine 167 or 250 mg BID × 12 days 300 or 600 mg QD × 1 HIV - infected patients ( 11 ) ↔ ↔ Fosamprenavir / ritonavir 700 mg BID plus ritonavir 100 mg BID × 2 weeks 150 mg every other day × 2 weeks Healthy subjects ( 15 ) ↔ AUC [ 1 ] ↓ Cmax by 15 % ↑ AUC by 35 % [ 2 ] , ↑ Cmax by 36 % , ↑ Cmin by 36 % , Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 75 % ( to a maximum 150 mg every other day or three times per week ) when given with fosamprenavir / ritonavir combination .
Indinavir 800 mg TID × 10 days 300 mg QD × 10 days Healthy subjects ( 10 ) ↑ AUC by 173 % , ↑ Cmax by 134 % ↓ AUC by 34 % , ↓ Cmax by 25 % , ↓ Cmin by 39 % Reduce rifabutin dose by 50 % , and increase indinavir dose from 800 mg to 1000 mg TID .
Lopinavir / ritonavir 400 / 100 mg BID × 20 days 150 mg QD × 10 days Healthy subjects ( 14 ) ↑ AUC by 203 % [ 3 ] ↓ Cmax by 112 % ↔ Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 75 % ( to a maximum 150 mg every other day or three times per week ) when given with lopinavir / ritonavir combination .
Monitor closely for adverse reactions .
Reduce rifabutin dosage further , as needed .
Saquinavir / ritonavir 1000 / 100 mg BID × 14 or 22 days 150 mg every 3 days × 21 – 22 days Healthy subjects ↑ AUC by 53 % [ 4 ] ↑ Cmax by 88 % ( n = 11 ) ↓ AUC by 13 % , ↓ Cmax by 15 % , ( n = 19 ) Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 75 % ( to a maximum 150 mg every other day or three times per week ) when given with saquinavir / ritonavir combination .
Monitor closely for adverse reactions .
Ritonavir 500 mg BID × 10 days 150 mg QD × 16 days Healthy subjects ( 5 ) ↑ AUC by 300 % , ↑ Cmax by 150 % ND Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 75 % ( to a maximum 150 mg every other day or three times per week ) when given with lopinavir / ritonavir combination .
Monitor closely for adverse reactions .
Reduce rifabutin dosage further , as needed .
Tipranavir / ritonavir 500 / 200 BID × 15 doses 150 mg single dose Healthy subjects ( 20 ) ↑ AUC by 190 % , ↑ Cmax by 70 % ↔ Reduce rifabutin dose by at least 75 % ( to a maximum 150 mg every other day or three times per week ) when given with tipranavir / ritonavir combination .
Monitor closely for adverse reactions .
Reduce rifabutin dosage further , as needed .
Nelfinavir 1250 mg BID × 7 – 8 days 150 mg QD × 8 days HIV - infected patients ( 11 ) ↑ AUC by 83 % , [ 5 ] ↑ Cmax by 19 % ↔ Reduce rifabutin dose by 50 % ( to 150 mg QD ) and increase the nelfinavir dose to 1250 mg BID Zidovudine 100 or 200 mg q4h 300 or 450 mg QD HIV - infected patients ( 16 ) ↔ ↓ AUC by 32 % , ↓ Cmax by 48 % , Because zidovudine levels remained within the therapeutic range during coadministration of rifabutin , dosage adjustments are not necessary .
ANTIFUNGALS Fluconazole 200 mg QD × 2 weeks 300 mg QD × 2 weeks HIV - infected patients ( 12 ) ↑ AUC by 82 % , ↑ Cmax by 88 % ↔ Monitor for rifabutin associated adverse events .
Reduce rifabutin dose or suspend MYCOBUTIN use if toxicity is suspected .
Posaconazole 200 mg QD × 10 days 300 mg QD × 17 days Healthy subjects ( 8 ) ↑ AUC by 72 % , ↑ Cmax by 31 % ↓ AUC by 49 % , ↓ Cmax by 43 % If co - administration of these two drugs cannot be avoided , patients should be monitored for adverse events associated with rifabutin administration , and lack of posaconazole efficacy .
Itraconazole 200 mg QD 300 mg QD HIV - Infected patients ( 6 ) ↑ [ 6 ] ↓ AUC by 70 % , ↓ Cmax by 75 % , If co - administration of these two drugs cannot be avoided , patients should be monitored for adverse events associated with rifabutin administration , and lack of itraconazole efficacy .
In a separate study , one case of uveitis was associated with increased serum rifabutin levels following co - administration of rifabutin ( 300 mg QD ) with itraconazole ( 600 – 900 mg QD ) .
Voriconazole 400 mg BID × 7 days ( maintenance dose ) 300 mg QD × 7 days Healthy male subjects ( 12 ) ↑ AUC by 331 % , ↑ Cmax by 195 % ↑ AUC by ~ 100 % , ↑ Cmax by ~ 100 % [ 7 ] CONTRAINDICATED ANTI - PCP ( Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ) Dapsone 50 mg QD 300 mg QD HIV - infected patients ( 16 ) ND ↓ AUC by 27 – 40 % Sulfamethoxazole - Trimethoprim 800 / 160 mg 300 mg QD HIV - infected patients ( 12 ) ↔ ↓ AUC by 15 – 20 % ANTI - MAC ( Mycobacterium avium intracellulare complex ) Azithromycin 500 mg QD × 1 day , then 250 mg QD × 9 days 300 mg QD Healthy subjects ( 6 ) ↔ ↔ Clarithromycin 500 mg BID 300 mg QD HIV - infected patients ( 12 ) ↑ AUC by 75 % ↓ AUC by 50 % Monitor for rifabutin associated adverse events .
Reduce dose or suspend use of MYCOBUTIN if toxicity is suspected .
Alternative treatment for clarithromycin should be considered when treating patients receiving rifabutin ANTI - TB ( Tuberculosis ) Ethambutol 1200 mg 300 mg QD × 7 days Healthy subjects ( 10 ) ND ↔ Isoniazid 300 mg 300 mg QD × 7 days Healthy subjects ( 6 ) ND ↔ OTHER Methadone 20 – 100 mg QD 300 mg QD × 13 days HIV - infected patients ( 24 ) ND ↔ Ethinylestradiol ( EE ) / Norethindrone ( NE ) 35 mg EE / 1 mg NE × 21 days 300 mg QD × 10 days Healthy female subjects ( 22 ) ND EE : ↓ AUC by 35 % , ↓ C max by 20 % NE : ↓ AUC by 46 % Patients should be advised to use additional or alternative methods of contraception .
Theophylline 5 mg / kg 300 mg × 14 days Healthy subjects ( 11 ) ND ↔ [ 1 ] compared to rifabutin 300 mg QD alone [ 2 ] compared to historical control ( fosamprenavir / ritonavir 700 / 100 mg BID ) [ 3 ] also taking zidovudine 500 mg QD [ 4 ] compared to rifabutin 150 mg QD alone [ 5 ] compared to rifabutin 300 mg QD alone [ 6 ] data from a case report [ 7 ] compared to voriconazole 200 mg BID alone Other drugs The structurally similar drug , rifampin , is known to reduce the plasma concentrations of a number of other drugs ( see prescribing information for rifampin ) .
Although a weaker enzyme inducer than rifampin , rifabutin may be expected to have some effect on those drugs as well .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies were conducted with rifabutin in mice and in rats .
Rifabutin was not carcinogenic in mice at doses up to 180 mg / kg / day , or approximately 36 times the recommended human daily dose .
Rifabutin was not carcinogenic in the rat at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day , about 12 times the recommended human dose .
Rifabutin was not mutagenic in the bacterial mutation assay ( Ames Test ) using both rifabutin - susceptible and resistant strains .
Rifabutin was not mutagenic in Schizosaccharomyces pombe P 1 and was not genotoxic in V - 79 Chinese hamster cells , human lymphocytes in vitro , or mouse bone marrow cells in vivo .
Fertility was impaired in male rats given 160 mg / kg ( 32 times the recommended human daily dose ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Rifabutin should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant or breastfeeding women .
Reproduction studies have been carried out in rats and rabbits given rifabutin using dose levels up to 200 mg / kg ( about 6 to 13 times the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
No teratogenicity was observed in either species .
In rats , given 200 mg / kg / day , ( about 6 times the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons ) , there was a decrease in fetal viability .
In rats , at 40 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons ) , rifabutin caused an increase in fetal skeletal variants .
In rabbits , at 80 mg / kg / day ( about 5 times the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons ) , rifabutin caused maternotoxicity and increase in fetal skeletal anomalies .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , rifabutin should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether rifabutin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of rifabutin for prophylaxis of MAC in children have not been established .
Limited safety data are available from treatment use in 22 HIV - positive children with MAC who received MYCOBUTIN in combination with at least two other antimycobacterials for periods from 1 to 183 weeks .
Mean doses ( mg / kg ) for these children were : 18 . 5 ( range 15 . 0 to 25 . 0 ) for infants 1 year of age , 8 . 6 ( range 4 . 4 to 18 . 8 ) for children 2 to 10 years of age , and 4 . 0 ( range 2 . 8 to 5 . 4 ) for adolescents 14 to 16 years of age .
There is no evidence that doses greater than 5 mg / kg daily are useful .
Adverse experiences were similar to those observed in the adult population , and included leukopenia , neutropenia , and rash .
In addition , corneal deposits have been observed in some patients during routine ophthalmologic surveillance of HIV - positive pediatric patients receiving MYCOBUTIN as part of a multiple - drug regimen for MAC prophylaxis .
These are tiny , almost transparent , asymptomatic peripheral and central corneal deposits which do not impair vision .
Doses of MYCOBUTIN may be administered mixed with foods such as applesauce .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of MYCOBUTIN did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials MYCOBUTIN Capsules were generally well tolerated in the controlled clinical trials .
Discontinuation of therapy due to an adverse event was required in 16 % of patients receiving MYCOBUTIN , compared to 8 % of patients receiving placebo in these trials .
Primary reasons for discontinuation of MYCOBUTIN were rash ( 4 % of treated patients ) , gastrointestinal intolerance ( 3 % ) , and neutropenia ( 2 % ) .
The following table enumerates adverse experiences that occurred at a frequency of 1 % or greater , among the patients treated with MYCOBUTIN in studies 023 and 027 .
Table : 3 Clinical Adverse Experiences Reported in ≥ 1 % of Patients Treated With MYCOBUTINAdverse event MYCOBUTIN ( n = 566 ) % Placebo ( n = 580 ) % Body as a whole Abdominal pain 4 3 Asthenia 1 1 Chest pain 1 1 Fever 2 1 Headache 3 5 Pain 1 2 Blood and lymphatic system Leucopenia 10 7 Anemia 1 2 Digestive System Anorexia 2 2 Diarrhea 3 3 Dyspepsia 3 1 Eructation 3 1 Flatulence 2 1 Nausea 6 5 Nausea and vomiting 3 2 Vomiting 1 1 Musculoskeletal system Myalgia 2 1 Nervous system Insomnia 1 1 Skin and appendages Rash 11 8 Special senses Taste perversion 3 1 Urogenital system Discolored urine 30 6 CLINICAL ADVERSE EVENTS REPORTED IN < 1 % OF PATIENTS WHO RECEIVED MYCOBUTIN Considering data from the 023 and 027 pivotal trials , and from other clinical studies , MYCOBUTIN appears to be a likely cause of the following adverse events which occurred in less than 1 % of treated patients : flu - like syndrome , hepatitis , hemolysis , arthralgia , myositis , chest pressure or pain with dyspnea , skin discoloration , thrombocytopenia , pancytopenia and jaundice .
The following adverse events have occurred in more than one patient receiving MYCOBUTIN , but an etiologic role has not been established : seizure , paresthesia , aphasia , confusion , and non - specific T wave changes on electrocardiogram .
When MYCOBUTIN was administered at doses from 1050 mg / day to 2400 mg / day , generalized arthralgia and uveitis were reported .
These adverse experiences abated when MYCOBUTIN was discontinued .
Mild to severe , reversible uveitis has been reported less frequently when MYCOBUTIN is used at 300 mg as monotherapy in MAC prophylaxis versus MYCOBUTIN in combination with clarithromycin for MAC treatment ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Uveitis has been infrequently reported when MYCOBUTIN is used at 300 mg / day as montherapy in MAC prophylaxis of HIV - infected persons , even with the concomitant use of fluconazole and / or macrolide antibacterials .
However , if higher doses of MYCOBUTIN are administered in combination with these agents , the incidence of uveitis is higher .
FDA proposes moving this paragraph from below with some revisions .
Patients who developed uveitis had mild to severe symptoms that resolved after treatment with corticosteroids and / or mydriatic eye drops ; in some severe cases , however , resolution of symptoms occurred after several weeks .
When uveitis occurs , temporary discontinuance of MYCOBUTIN and ophthalmologic evaluation are recommended .
In most mild cases , MYCOBUTIN may be restarted ; however , if signs or symptoms recur , use of MYCOBUTIN should be discontinued ( Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report , September 9 , 1994 ) .
Corneal deposits have been reported during routine ophthalmologic surveillance of some HIV - positive pediatric patients receiving MYCOBUTIN as part of a multiple drug regimen for MAC prophylaxis .
The deposits are tiny , almost transparent , asymptomatic peripheral and central corneal deposits , and do not impair vision .
The following table enumerates the changes in laboratory values that were considered as laboratory abnormalities in Studies 023 and 027 .
Table 4 Percentage of Patients With Laboratory AbnormalitiesLaboratory abnormalities MYCOBUTIN ( n = 566 ) % PLACEBO ( n = 580 ) % Includes grades 3 or 4 toxicities as specified : Chemistry Increased alkaline phosphatase [ 1 ] < 1 3 Increased SGOT [ 2 ] 7 12 Increased SGPT null 9 11 Hematology Anemia [ 3 ] 6 7 Eosinophilia 1 1 Leukopenia [ 4 ] 17 16 Neutropenia [ 5 ] 25 20 Thrombocytopenia [ 6 ] 5 4 [ 1 ] All values > 450 U / L [ 2 ] All values > 150 U / L [ 3 ] All hemoglobin values < 8 . 0 g / dL [ 4 ] All WBC values < 1 , 500 / mm 3 [ 5 ] All ANC values < 750 / mm 3 [ 6 ] All platelet count values < 50 , 000 / mm 3 The incidence of neutropenia in patients treated with MYCOBUTIN was significantly greater than in patients treated with placebo ( p = 0 . 03 ) .
Although thrombocytopenia was not significantly more common among patients treated with MYCOBUTIN in these trials , MYCOBUTIN has been clearly linked to thrombocytopenia in rare cases .
One patient in Study 023 developed thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura , which was attributed to MYCOBUTIN .
Adverse Reactions from Post - Marketing Experience Adverse reactions identified through post - marketing surveillance by system organ class ( SOC ) are listed below : Blood and lymphatic system disorders : White blood cell disorders ( including agranulocytosis , lymphopenia , granulocytopenia , neutropenia , white blood cell count decreased , neutrophil count decreased ) , platelet count decreased .
Immune system disorders : Hypersensitivity , bronchospasm , rash , and eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Clostridium difficile colitis / Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea .
Pyrexia , rash and other hypersensitivity reactions such as eosinophilia and bronchospasm might occur , as has been seen with other antibacterials .
A limited number of skin discoloration have been reported .
Rifamycin hypersensitivity reactions Hypersensitivity to rifamycins have been reported including flu - like symptoms , bronchospasm , hypotension , urticaria , angioedema , conjunctivitis , thrombocytopenia or neutropenia .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Liver abnormalities ( increased bilirubin and liver weight ) occurred in mice , rats and monkeys at doses ( respectively ) 0 . 5 , 1 and 3 - times the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Testicular atrophy occurred in baboons at doses 2 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , and in rats at doses 6 times the recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
OVERDOSAGE No information is available on accidental overdosage in humans .
Treatment While there is no experience in the treatment of overdose with MYCOBUTIN Capsules , clinical experience with rifamycins suggests that gastric lavage to evacuate gastric contents ( within a few hours of overdose ) , followed by instillation of an activated charcoal slurry into the stomach , may help absorb any remaining drug from the gastrointestinal tract .
Rifabutin is 85 % protein bound and distributed extensively into tissues ( Vss : 8 to 9 L / kg ) .
It is not primarily excreted via the urinary route ( less than 10 % as unchanged drug ) ; therefore , neither hemodialysis nor forced diuresis is expected to enhance the systemic elimination of unchanged rifabutin from the body in a patient with an overdose of MYCOBUTIN .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is recommended that MYCOBUTIN Capsules be administered at a dose of 300 mg once daily .
For those patients with propensity to nausea , vomiting , or other gastrointestinal upset , administration of MYCOBUTIN at doses of 150 mg twice daily taken with food may be useful .
For patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) , consider reducing the dose of MYCOBUTIN by 50 % , if toxicity is suspected .
No dosage adjustment is required for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
Reduction of the dose of MYCOBUTIN may also be needed for patients receiving concomitant treatment with certain other drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Mild hepatic impairment does not require a dose modification .
The pharmacokinetics of rifabutin in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment is not known .
HOW SUPPLIED MYCOBUTIN ( rifabutin ) Capsules , USP , are supplied as hard - gelatin capsules having an opaque red - brown cap and body , imprinted with MYCOBUTIN / PHARMACIA & UPJOHN in white ink , each containing 150 mg of rifabutin , USP .
MYCOBUTIN is available as follows : NDC 0013 - 5301 - 17 Bottles of 100 capsules Keep tightly closed and dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0217 - 6 . 0 July 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
