WARNING : DIMINISHED ANTIPLATELET EFFECT IN PATIENTS WITH TWO LOSS - OF - FUNCTION ALLELES OF THE CYP2C19 GENE The effectiveness of clopidogrel results from its antiplatelet activity , which is dependent on its conversion to an active metabolite by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system , principally CYP2C19 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Clopidogrel at recommended doses forms less of the active metabolite and so has a reduced effect on platelet activity in patients who are homozygous for nonfunctional alleles of the CYP2C19 gene , ( termed “ CYP2C19 poor metabolizers ” ) .
Tests are available to identify patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Consider use of another platelet P2Y12 inhibitor in patients identified as CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
WARNING : DIMINISHED ANTIPLATELET EFFECT IN PATIENTS WITH TWO LOSS - OF - FUNCTION ALLELES OF THE CYP2C19 GENE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Effectiveness of clopidogrel depends on conversion to an active metabolite by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system , principally CYP2C19 .
( 5 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Tests are available to identify patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
( 12 . 5 ) • Consider use of another platelet P2Y12 inhibitor in patients identified as CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel is a P2Y12 platelet inhibitor indicated for : • Acute coronary syndrome - For patients with non - ST - segment elevation ACS [ unstable angina ( UA ) / non - ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( NSTEMI ) ] , clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction ( MI ) and stroke .
( 1 . 1 ) - For patients with ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) , clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke .
( 1 . 1 ) • Recent MI , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease .
Clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome ( ACS ) • Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction ( MI ) and stroke in patients with non - ST - segment elevation ACS ( unstable angina [ UA ] / non - ST - elevation myocardial infarction [ NSTEMI ] ) , including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization .
Clopidogrel tablets should be administered in conjunction with aspirin .
• Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with acute ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) who are to be managed medically .
Clopidogrel tablets should be administered in conjunction with aspirin .
1 . 2 Recent MI , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease In patients with established peripheral arterial disease or with a history of recent myocardial infarction ( MI ) or recent stroke clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of MI and stroke .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Acute coronary syndrome ( 2 . 1 ) - Initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily .
- Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days .
• Recent MI , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease : 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome • In patients who need an antiplatelet effect within hours , initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily .
Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recent MI , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 75 mg tablets : Pink , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets imprinted with “ 894 ” on one side and plain on the other side Film - coated tablets : 75 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active pathological bleeding , such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • CYP2C19 inhibitors : Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole or esomeprazole .
( 5 . 1 ) • Bleeding : Clopidogrel increases risk of bleeding .
( 5 . 2 ) • Discontinuation : Premature discontinuation increases risk of cardiovascular events .
Discontinue 5 days prior to elective surgery that has a major risk of bleeding .
( 5 . 3 ) • Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) has been reported .
( 5 . 4 ) • Cross - reactivity among thienopyridines has been reported .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Diminished Antiplatelet Activity in Patients with Impaired CYP2C19 Function Clopidogrel is a prodrug .
Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is achieved through an active metabolite .
The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by genetic variations in CYP2C19 [ see Boxed Warning ] .
The metabolism of clopidogrel can also be impaired by drugs that inhibit CYP2C19 , such as omeprazole or esomeprazole .
Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel with omeprazole or esomeprazole because both significantly reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 General Risk of Bleeding P2Y12 inhibitors ( thienopyridines ) , including clopidogrel , increase the risk of bleeding .
P2Y12 inhibitors ( thienopyridines ) , inhibit platelet aggregation for the lifetime of the platelet ( 7 to10 days ) .
Because the half - life of clopidogrel ’ s active metabolite is short , it may be possible to restore hemostasis by administering exogenous platelets ; however , platelet transfusions within 4 hours of the loading dose or 2 hours of the maintenance dose may be less effective .
Use of drugs that induce the activity of CYP2C19 would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and might potentiate the bleeding risk .
As a precaution , avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Risk factors for bleeding include concomitant use of other drugs that increase the risk of bleeding ( e . g . , anticoagulants , antiplatelet agents , and chronic use of NSAIDs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 , 7 . 5 , 7 . 6 , 7 . 7 ) ] .
5 . 3 Discontinuation of Clopidogrel Discontinuation of clopidogrel increases the risk of cardiovascular events .
If clopidogrel must be temporarily discontinued ( e . g . , to treat bleeding or for surgery with a major risk of bleeding ) , restart it as soon as possible .
When possible , interrupt therapy with clopidogrel for five days prior to such surgery .
Resume clopidogrel as soon as hemostasis is achieved .
5 . 4 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( TTP ) TTP , sometimes fatal , has been reported following use of clopidogrel , sometimes after a short exposure ( < 2 weeks ) .
TTP is a serious condition that requires urgent treatment including plasmapheresis ( plasma exchange ) .
It is characterized by thrombocytopenia , microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( schistocytes [ fragmented RBCs ] seen on peripheral smear ) , neurological findings , renal dysfunction , and fever [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Cross - Reactivity among Thienopyridines Hypersensitivity including rash , angioedema or hematologic reaction has been reported in patients receiving clopidogrel , including patients with a history of hypersensitivity or hematologic reaction to other thienopyridines [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Bleeding , including life - threatening and fatal bleeding , is the most commonly reported adverse reaction .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions and durations of follow - up , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Clopidogrel has been evaluated for safety in more than 54 , 000 patients , including over 21 , 000 patients treated for one year or more .
The clinically important adverse reactions observed in trials comparing clopidogrel plus aspirin to placebo plus aspirin and trials comparing clopidogrel alone to aspirin alone are discussed below .
Bleeding CURE In CURE , clopidogrel use with aspirin was associated with an increase in major bleeding ( primarily gastrointestinal and at puncture sites ) compared to placebo with aspirin ( see Table 1 ) .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage ( 0 . 1 % ) and fatal bleeding ( 0 . 2 % ) were the same in both groups .
Other bleeding events that were reported more frequently in the clopidogrel group were epistaxis , hematuria , and bruise .
The overall incidence of bleeding is described in Table 1 .
Table 1 : CURE Incidence of Bleeding Complications ( % patients ) Event Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) ( n = 6 , 259 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) ( n = 6 , 303 ) Major bleeding [ 1 ] 3 . 7 2 . 7 Life - threatening bleeding 2 . 2 1 . 8 Fatal 0 . 2 0 . 2 5 g / dL hemoglobin drop 0 . 9 0 . 9 Requiring surgical intervention 0 . 7 0 . 7 Hemorrhagic strokes 0 . 1 0 . 1 Requiring inotropes 0 . 5 0 . 5 Requiring transfusion ( ≥ 4 units ) 1 . 2 1 . 0 Other major bleeding 1 . 6 1 . 0 Significantly disabling 0 . 4 0 . 3 Intraocular bleeding with significant loss of vision 0 . 05 0 . 03 Requiring 2 to 3 units of blood 1 . 3 0 . 9 Minor bleeding [ 2 ] 5 . 1 2 . 4 [ 1 ] Life - threatening and other major bleeding .
[ 2 ] Led to interruption of study medication .
COMMIT In COMMIT , similar rates of major bleeding were observed in the clopidogrel and placebo groups , both of which also received aspirin ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Incidence of Bleeding Events in COMMIT ( % patients ) Type of Bleeding Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) ( n = 22 , 961 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) ( n = 22 , 891 ) p - value Major [ 1 ] noncerebral or cerebral bleeding Major noncerebral Fatal Hemorrhagic stroke Fatal 0 . 6 0 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 59 0 . 48 0 . 90 0 . 91 0 . 81 Other noncerebral bleeding ( nonmajor ) 3 . 6 3 . 1 0 . 005 Any noncerebral bleeding 3 . 9 3 . 4 0 . 004 [ 1 ] Major bleeds were cerebral bleeds or non - cerebral bleeds thought to have caused death or that required transfusion .
CAPRIE ( clopidogrel vs Aspirin ) In CAPRIE , gastrointestinal hemorrhage occurred at a rate of 2 % in those taking clopidogrel versus 2 . 7 % in those taking aspirin ; bleeding requiring hospitalization occurred in 0 . 7 % and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage was 0 . 4 % for clopidogrel compared to 0 . 5 % for aspirin .
Other bleeding events that were reported more frequently in the clopidogrel group were epistaxis and hematoma .
Other Adverse Events In CURE and CHARISMA , which compared clopidogrel plus aspirin to aspirin alone , there was no difference in the rate of adverse events ( other than bleeding ) between clopidogrel and placebo .
In CAPRIE , which compared clopidogrel to aspirin , pruritus was more frequently reported in those taking clopidogrel .
No other difference in the rate of adverse events ( other than bleeding ) was reported .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of clopidogrel .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of an unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hemorrhages , including those with fatal outcome , have been reported in patients treated with clopidogrel .
• Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia / pancytopenia , thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) , acquired hemophilia A • Gastrointestinal disorders : Colitis ( including ulcerative or lymphocytic colitis ) , pancreatitis , stomatitis , gastric / duodenal ulcer , diarrhea • General disorders and administration site condition : Fever • Hepatobiliary disorders : Acute liver failure , hepatitis ( noninfectious ) , abnormal liver function test • Immune system disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactoid reactions , serum sickness , insulin autoimmune syndrome , which can lead to severe hypoglycemia • Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : Myalgia , arthralgia , arthritis • Nervous system disorders : Taste disorders , headache , ageusia • Psychiatric disorders : Confusion , hallucinations • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Bronchospasm , interstitial pneumonitis , eosinophilic pneumonia • Renal and urinary disorders : Increased creatinine levels • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Maculopapular , erythematous or exfoliative rash , urticaria , bullous dermatitis , eczema , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , angioedema , drug - induced hypersensitivity syndrome , drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , erythema multiforme , lichen planus , generalized pruritus • Vascular disorders : Vasculitis , hypotension 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP2C19 inducers : Increases levels of clopidogrel active metabolite and increases platelet inhibition .
( 7 . 1 ) • Opioids : Decreased exposure to clopidogrel .
Consider use of parenteral antiplatelet agent .
( 7 . 3 ) • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , warfarin , selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs , SNRIs ) : Increases risk of bleeding .
( 7 . 4 , 7 . 5 , 7 . 6 ) • Other Antiplatelet Agents : Increases the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect .
( 7 . 7 ) • Repaglinide ( CYP2C8 substrates ) : Increases substrate plasma concentrations .
( 7 . 8 ) 7 . 1CYP2C19 Inducers Since clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19 , use of drugs that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel .
Rifampin strongly induces CYP2C19 resulting to both an increase level of clopidogrel active metabolite and platelet inhibition , which in particular might potentiate the risk of bleeding .
As a precaution , avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Omeprazole or Esomeprazole Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel tablets with omeprazole or esomeprazole .
In clinical studies , omeprazole was shown to reduce significantly the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel when given concomitantly or 12 hours apart .
A similar reduction in antiplatelet activity was observed with esomeprazole when given concomitantly with clopidogrel tablets .
Dexlansoprazole , lansoprazole , and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors , coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel , presumably because of slowed gastric emptying , resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring coadministration of morphine or other opioid agonists .
7 . 4 Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) Coadministration of clopidogrel and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding .
7 . 5 Warfarin ( CYP2C9 Substrates ) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S - warfarin ( a CYP2C9 substrate ) or INR in patients receiving long - term warfarin therapy , coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis .
However , at high concentrations in vitro , clopidogrel inhibits CYP2C9 .
7 . 6 SSRIs and SNRIs Since selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) affect platelet activation , the concomitant administration of SSRIs and SNRIs with clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding .
7 . 7 Other Antiplatelet Agents Coadministration of antiplatelet agents increase the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect .
Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 8 Repaglinide ( CYP2C8 Substrates ) The acyl - β - glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 .
Clopidogrel can increase the systemic exposure to drugs that are primarily cleared by CYP2C8 , thereby needing dose adjustment and appropriate monitoring .
Clopidogrel increased repaglinide exposures by 3 . 9 - fold to 5 . 1 - fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use of repaglinide with clopidogrel .
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , initiate repaglinide at 0 . 5 mg before each meal and do not exceed a total daily dose of 4 mg .
Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required during concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from cases reported in published literature and postmarketing surveillance with clopidogrel use in pregnant women have not identified any drug - associated risks for major birth defects or miscarriage [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the pregnant woman and fetus associated with myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No evidence of fetotoxicity was observed when clopidogrel was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses corresponding to 65 and 78 times the recommended daily human dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Myocardial infarction and stroke are medical emergencies .
Therapy for the pregnant woman should not be withheld because of potential concerns regarding the effects of clopidogrel on the fetus .
Labor or delivery Clopidogrel use during labor or delivery will increase the risk of maternal bleeding and hemorrhage .
Avoid neuraxial blockade during clopidogrel use because of the risk of spinal hematoma .
When possible , discontinue clopidogrel 5 to 7 days prior to labor , delivery , or neuraxial blockade .
Data Human data The available data from published case reports over two decades of postmarketing use have not identified an association with clopidogrel use in pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse fetal outcomes .
Animal data Embryo - fetal developmental toxicology studies were performed in pregnant rats and rabbits with doses up to 500 and 300 mg / kg / day , respectively , administered during organogenesis .
These doses , corresponding to 65 and 78 times the recommended daily human dose , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or fetotoxicity due to clopidogrel .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of clopidogrel in human milk or the effects on milk production .
No adverse effects on breastfed infants have been observed with maternal clopidogrel use during lactation in a small number of postmarketing cases .
Studies in rats have shown that clopidogrel and / or its metabolites are present in the milk .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with mother ’ s clinical need for clopidogrel and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from clopidogrel or from underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric populations have not been established .
A randomized , placebo - controlled trial ( CLARINET ) did not demonstrate a clinical benefit of clopidogrel in neonates and infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease palliated with a systemic - to - pulmonary arterial shunt .
Possible factors contributing to this outcome were the dose of clopidogrel , the concomitant administration of aspirin , and the late initiation of therapy following shunt palliation .
It cannot be ruled out that a trial with a different design would demonstrate a clinical benefit in this patient population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in the CAPRIE and CURE controlled clinical studies , approximately 50 % of patients treated with clopidogrel were 65 years of age and older , and 15 % were 75 years and older .
In COMMIT , approximately 58 % of the patients treated with clopidogrel were 60 years and older , 26 % of whom were 70 years and older .
The observed risk of bleeding events with clopidogrel plus aspirin versus placebo plus aspirin by age category is provided in Table 1 and Table 2 for the CURE and COMMIT trials , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Experience is limited in patients with severe and moderate renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Platelet inhibition by clopidogrel is irreversible and will last for the life of the platelet .
Overdose following clopidogrel administration may result in bleeding complications .
A single oral dose of clopidogrel at 1 , 500 or 2 , 000 mg / kg was lethal to mice and to rats and at 3 , 000 mg / kg to baboons .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were vomiting , prostration , difficult breathing , and gastrointestinal hemorrhage in animals .
Based on biological plausibility , platelet transfusion may restore clotting ability .
11 DESCRIPTION Clopidogrel bisulfate is a thienopyridine class inhibitor of P2Y12 ADP platelet receptors .
Chemically it is methyl ( + ) - ( S ) - α - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 6 , 7 - dihydrothieno [ 3 , 2 - c ] pyridine - 5 ( 4 H ) - acetate sulfate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The molecular formula of clopidogrel bisulfate is C16H16ClNO2S • H2SO4 and its molecular weight is 419 . 9 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clopidogrel bisulfate is a white to off - white powder .
It is practically insoluble in water at neutral pH but freely soluble at pH 1 .
It also dissolves freely in methanol , dissolves sparingly in methylene chloride , and is practically insoluble in ethyl ether .
It has a specific optical rotation of about + 56 ° .
Clopidogrel tablets , USP for oral administration is provided as pink , round , biconvex , imprinted , film - coated tablets containing 97 . 875 mg of clopidogrel bisulfate , USP which is the molar equivalent of 75 mg of clopidogrel base .
Each tablet contains mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , low substituted hydroxypropylcellulose , polyethylene glycol and hydrogenated castor oil as inactive ingredients .
The pink film coating contains hypromellose , iron oxide red , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Imprinting ink contains shellac glaze , black iron oxide , N - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , ammonium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clopidogrel is an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation through the irreversible binding of its active metabolite to the P2Y12 class of ADP receptors on platelets .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clopidogrel must be metabolized by CYP450 enzymes to produce the active metabolite that inhibits platelet aggregation .
The active metabolite of clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) to its platelet P2Y12 receptor and the subsequent ADP - mediated activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb / IIIa complex , thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation .
This action is irreversible .
Consequently , platelets exposed to clopidogrel ’ s active metabolite are affected for the remainder of their lifespan ( about 7 to 10 days ) .
Platelet aggregation induced by agonists other than ADP is also inhibited by blocking the amplification of platelet activation by released ADP .
Dose - dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation can be seen 2 hours after single oral doses of clopidogrel .
Repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day inhibit ADP - induced platelet aggregation on the first day , and inhibition reaches steady state between Day 3 and Day 7 .
At steady state , the average inhibition level observed with a dose of 75 mg clopidogrel per day was between 40 % and 60 % .
Platelet aggregation and bleeding time gradually return to baseline values after treatment is discontinued , generally in about 5 days .
Geriatric Patients Elderly ( ≥ 75 years ) and young healthy subjects had similar effects on platelet aggregation .
Renally Impaired Patients After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day , patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance from 5 to 15 mL / min ) and moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance from 30 to 60 mL / min ) showed low ( 25 % ) inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation .
Hepatically Impaired Patients After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day for 10 days in patients with severe hepatic impairment , inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was similar to that observed in healthy subjects .
Gender In a small study comparing men and women , less inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was observed in women .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Clopidogrel is a prodrug and is metabolized to a pharmacologically active metabolite and inactive metabolites .
Absorption After single and repeated oral doses of 75 mg per day , clopidogrel is rapidly absorbed .
Absorption is at least 50 % , based on urinary excretion of clopidogrel metabolites .
Effect of food Clopidogrel can be administered with or without food .
In a study in healthy male subjects when clopidogrel 75 mg per day was given with a standard breakfast , mean inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was reduced by less than 9 % .
The active metabolite AUC0 - 24 was unchanged in the presence of food , while there was a 57 % decrease in active metabolite Cmax .
Similar results were observed when a clopidogrel 300 mg loading dose was administered with a high - fat breakfast .
Metabolism Clopidogrel is extensively metabolized by two main metabolic pathways : one mediated by esterases and leading to hydrolysis into an inactive carboxylic acid derivative ( 85 % of circulating metabolites ) and one mediated by multiple cytochrome P450 enzymes .
Cytochromes first oxidize clopidogrel to a 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Subsequent metabolism of the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite results in formation of the active metabolite , a thiol derivative of clopidogrel .
The active metabolite is formed mostly by CYP2C19 with contributions from several other CYP enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 and CYP3A .
The active thiol metabolite binds rapidly and irreversibly to platelet receptors , thus inhibiting platelet aggregation for the lifespan of the platelet .
The Cmax of the active metabolite is twice as high following a single 300 mg clopidogrel loading dose as it is after four days of 75 mg maintenance dose .
Cmax occurs approximately 30 to 60 minutes after dosing .
In the 75 mg to 300 mg dose range , the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite deviates from dose proportionality : 4 - fold the dose results in 2 . 0 - fold and 2 . 7 - fold the Cmax and AUC , respectively .
Elimination Following an oral dose of 14 C - labeled clopidogrel in humans , approximately 50 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 46 % in feces over the 5 days post dosing .
After a single , oral dose of 75 mg , clopidogrel has a half - life of approximately 6 hours .
The half - life of the active metabolite is about 30 minutes .
Drug Interactions Effect of other drugs on clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
CYP2C19 inducers Concomitant use of strong inducers of CYP2C19 results in increased plasma concentration of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and an increase in platelet inhibition .
Rifampin : Coadministration of rifampin 300 mg twice daily for 7 days with 600 mg loading dose of clopidogrel in healthy adults increased the mean AUC and Cmax of clopidogrel ’ s thiol metabolites by 3 . 8 - fold .
Mean inhibition of platelet aggregation at 4 hours post dose was 34 % higher in the presence of rifampin compared to clopidogrel administered alone .
CYP2C19 inhibitors Concomitant use of certain inhibitors of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition .
Proton pump inhibitors ( PPI ) The effect of proton pump inhibitors ( PPI ) on the systemic exposure to the clopidogrel active metabolite following multiple doses of clopidogrel 75 mg evaluated in dedicated drug interaction studies is presented in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic parameters measured in these studies showed that the interaction was highest with omeprazole and least with dexlansoprazole .
Opioids Coadministration of 5 mg intravenous morphine with 600 mg loading dose of clopidogrel in healthy adults decreased the AUC and Cmax of clopidogrel ’ s thiol metabolites by 34 % .
Mean platelet aggregation was higher up to 2 to 4 hours with morphine coadministration .
Effect of clopidogrel on other drugs In vitro studies have shown that the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 .
Concomitant administration of repaglinide with clopidogrel increased the systemic exposure to repaglinide ( AUC0 - ∞ ) by 5 . 1 - fold following the loading dose ( 300 mg ) and by 3 . 9 - fold on day 3 of the maintenance dose ( 75 mg ) of clopidogrel [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2C19 is involved in the formation of both the active metabolite and the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Clopidogrel active metabolite pharmacokinetics and antiplatelet effects , as measured by ex vivo platelet aggregation assays , differ according to CYP2C19 genotype .
Patients who are homozygous for nonfunctional alleles of the CYP2C19 gene are termed “ CYP2C19 poor metabolizers ” .
Approximately 2 % of White and 4 % of Black patients are poor metabolizers ; the prevalence of poor metabolism is higher in Asian patients ( e . g . , 14 % of Chinese ) .
Tests are available to identify patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
A crossover study in 40 healthy subjects , 10 each in the four CYP2C19 metabolizer groups , evaluated pharmacokinetic and antiplatelet responses using 300 mg followed by 75 mg per day and 600 mg followed by 150 mg per day , each for a total of 5 days .
Decreased active metabolite exposure and diminished inhibition of platelet aggregation were observed in the poor metabolizers as compared to the other groups .
Table 3 : Active Metabolite Pharmacokinetics and Antiplatelet Responses by CYP2C19 Metabolizer Status Dose Poor ( n = 10 ) Intermediate [ 1 ] ( n = 10 ) Normal ( n = 10 ) Ultrarapid [ 2 ] ( n = 10 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 300 mg ( 24 h ) 11 ( 4 ) 23 ( 11 ) 32 ( 21 ) 24 ( 10 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 17 ( 6 ) 39 ( 23 ) 44 ( 27 ) 36 ( 13 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 4 ( 1 ) 12 ( 5 ) 13 ( 7 ) 12 ( 6 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 7 ( 2 ) 18 ( 7 ) 19 ( 5 ) 16 ( 9 ) IPA ( % ) [ 3 ] 300 mg ( 24 h ) 24 ( 26 ) 37 ( 21 ) 39 ( 28 ) 40 ( 21 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 32 ( 25 ) 56 ( 22 ) 49 ( 23 ) 51 ( 28 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 37 ( 23 ) 60 ( 18 ) 58 ( 19 ) 56 ( 13 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 61 ( 14 ) 74 ( 14 ) 73 ( 9 ) 68 ( 18 ) VASP - PRI ( % ) [ 4 ] 300 mg ( 24 h ) 91 ( 12 ) 78 ( 12 ) 68 ( 16 ) 73 ( 12 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 85 ( 14 ) 56 ( 26 ) 48 ( 20 ) 51 ( 20 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 83 ( 13 ) 50 ( 16 ) 39 ( 14 ) 40 ( 9 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 61 ( 18 ) 29 ( 11 ) 24 ( 10 ) 20 ( 10 ) [ 1 ] Intermediate metabolizers have one but not two nonfunctional alleles [ 2 ] Ultrarapid metabolizers have at least one gain - of - function allele [ 3 ] Inhibition of platelet aggregation with 5 mcM ADP ; larger value indicates greater platelet inhibition [ 4 ] Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein – platelet reactivity index ; smaller value indicates greater platelet inhibition Values are mean ( SD ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of tumorigenicity when clopidogrel was administered for 78 weeks to mice and 104 weeks to rats at dosages up to 77 mg / kg per day , which afforded plasma exposures > 25 times that in humans at the recommended daily dose of 75 mg .
Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in four in vitro tests ( Ames test , DNA - repair test in rat hepatocytes , gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , and metaphase chromosome analysis of human lymphocytes ) and in one in vivo test ( micronucleus test by oral route in mice ) .
Clopidogrel was found to have no effect on fertility of male and female rats treated prior to pairing and throughout gestation at oral doses up to 400 mg / kg per day ( 52 times the recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome CURE The CURE study included 12 , 562 patients with ACS without ST - elevation ( UA or NSTEMI ) and presenting within 24 hours of onset of the most recent episode of chest pain or symptoms consistent with ischemia .
Patients were required to have either ECG changes compatible with new ischemia ( without ST - elevation ) or elevated cardiac enzymes or troponin I or T to at least twice the upper limit of normal .
Patients were randomized to receive clopidogrel ( 300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg once daily ) or placebo , and were treated for up to one year .
Patients also received aspirin ( 75 mg to 325 mg once daily ) and other standard therapies such as heparin .
The use of GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors was not permitted for three days prior to randomization .
The patient population was largely White ( 82 % ) and included 38 % women , and 52 % age ≥ 65 years of age .
Only about 20 % of patients underwent revascularization during the initial hospitalization and few underwent emergent or urgent revascularization .
The number of patients experiencing the primary outcome ( CV death , MI , or stroke ) was 582 ( 9 . 3 % ) in the clopidogrel - treated group and 719 ( 11 . 4 % ) in the placebo - treated group , a 20 % relative risk reduction ( 95 % CI of 10 % to 28 % ; p < 0 . 001 ) for the clopidogrel - treated group ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Outcome Events in the CURE Primary Analysis Outcome Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) [ 1 ] ( n = 6 , 259 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) null ( n = 6 , 303 ) Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) ( 95 % CI ) Primary outcome ( Cardiovascular death , MI , Stroke ) 582 ( 9 . 3 % ) 719 ( 11 . 4 % ) 20 % ( 10 . 3 , 27 . 9 ) p < 0 . 001 All Individual Outcome Events : [ 2 ] CV death 318 ( 5 . 1 % ) 345 ( 5 . 5 % ) 7 % ( - 7 . 7 , 20 . 6 ) MI 324 ( 5 . 2 % ) 419 ( 6 . 6 % ) 23 % ( 11 . 0 , 33 . 4 ) Stroke 75 ( 1 . 2 % ) 87 ( 1 . 4 % ) 14 % ( - 17 . 7 , 36 . 6 ) [ 1 ] Other standard therapies were used as appropriate .
[ 2 ] The individual components do not represent a breakdown of the primary and co - primary outcomes , but rather the total number of subjects experiencing an event during the course of the study .
Most of the benefit of clopidogrel occurred in the first two months , but the difference from placebo was maintained throughout the course of the trial ( up to 12 months ) ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The effect of clopidogrel did not differ significantly in various subgroups , as shown in Figure 3 .
The benefits associated with clopidogrel were independent of the use of other acute and long - term cardiovascular therapies , including heparin / LMWH , intravenous glycoprotein IIb / IIIa ( GPIIb / IIIa ) inhibitors , lipid - lowering drugs , beta - blockers , and ACE inhibitors .
The efficacy of clopidogrel was observed independently of the dose of aspirin ( 75 mg to 325 mg once daily ) .
The use of oral anticoagulants , nonstudy antiplatelet drugs , and chronic NSAIDs was not allowed in CURE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The use of clopidogrel in CURE was associated with a decrease in the use of thrombolytic therapy ( 71 patients [ 1 . 1 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 126 patients [ 2 . 0 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 43 % ) , and GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors ( 369 patients [ 5 . 9 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 454 patients [ 7 . 2 % ] in the placebo group , relative risk reduction of 18 % ) .
The use of clopidogrel in CURE did not affect the number of patients treated with CABG or PCI ( with or without stenting ) ( 2 , 253 patients [ 36 . 0 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 2 , 324 patients [ 36 . 9 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 4 . 0 % ) .
COMMIT In patients with STEMI , the safety and efficacy of clopidogrel were evaluated in the randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind study , COMMIT .
COMMIT included 45 , 852 patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of the symptoms of myocardial infarction with supporting ECG abnormalities ( i . e . , ST - elevation , ST - depression or left bundle - branch block ) .
Patients were randomized to receive clopidogrel ( 75 mg once daily ) or placebo , in combination with aspirin ( 162 mg per day ) , for 28 days or until hospital discharge , whichever came first .
The primary endpoints were death from any cause and the first occurrence of re - infarction , stroke or death .
The patient population was 28 % women and 58 % age ≥ 60 years ( 26 % age ≥ 70 years ) .
Fifty five percent ( 55 % ) of patients received thrombolytics and only 3 % underwent PCI .
As shown in Table 5 and Figure 4 and Figure 5 below , clopidogrel significantly reduced the relative risk of death from any cause by 7 % ( p = 0 . 029 ) , and the relative risk of the combination of re - infarction , stroke or death by 9 % ( p = 0 . 002 ) .
Table 5 : Outcome Events in COMMIT Event Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) ( N = 22 , 961 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) ( N = 22 , 891 ) Odds ratio ( 95 % CI ) p - value Composite endpoint : Death , MI , or Stroke [ 1 ] 2 , 121 ( 9 . 2 % ) 2 , 310 ( 10 . 1 % ) 0 . 91 ( 0 . 86 , 0 . 97 ) 0 . 002 Death Nonfatal MI [ 2 ] Nonfatal Stroke null 1 , 726 ( 7 . 5 % ) 270 ( 1 . 2 % ) 127 ( 0 . 6 % ) 1 , 845 ( 8 . 1 % ) 330 ( 1 . 4 % ) 142 ( 0 . 6 % ) 0 . 93 ( 0 . 87 , 0 . 99 ) 0 . 81 ( 0 . 69 , 0 . 95 ) 0 . 89 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 13 ) 0 . 029 0 . 011 0 . 33 [ 1 ] 9 patients ( 2 clopidogrel and 7 placebo ) suffered both a nonfatal stroke and a nonfatal MI .
[ 2 ] Nonfatal MI and nonfatal stroke exclude patients who died ( of any cause ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The effect of clopidogrel did not differ significantly in various prespecified subgroups as shown in Figure 6 .
The effect was also similar in non - prespecified subgroups including those based on infarct location , Killip class or prior MI history .
Such subgroup analyses should be interpreted cautiously .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Recent Myocardial Infarction , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease CAPRIE The CAPRIE trial was a 19 , 185 - patient , 304 - center , international , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group study comparing clopidogrel ( 75 mg daily ) to aspirin ( 325 mg daily ) .
To be eligible to enroll , patients had to have : 1 ) recent history of myocardial infarction ( within 35 days ) ; 2 ) recent histories of ischemic stroke ( within 6 months ) with at least a week of residual neurological signs ; and / or 3 ) established peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
Patients received randomized treatment for an average of 1 . 6 years ( maximum of 3 years ) .
The trial ' s primary outcome was the time to first occurrence of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new myocardial infarction ( fatal or not ) , or other vascular death .
Deaths not easily attributable to nonvascular causes were all classified as vascular .
Table 6 : Outcome Events in the CAPRIE Primary Analysis Patients Clopidogrel n = 9 , 599 Aspirin n = 9 , 586 Ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) 438 ( 4 . 6 % ) 461 ( 4 . 8 % ) MI ( fatal or not ) 275 ( 2 . 9 % ) 333 ( 3 . 5 % ) Other vascular death 226 ( 2 . 4 % ) 226 ( 2 . 4 % ) Total 939 ( 9 . 8 % ) 1 , 020 ( 10 . 6 % ) As shown in Table 6 , clopidogrel was associated with a lower incidence of outcome events , primarily MI .
The overall relative risk reduction ( 9 . 8 % vs 10 . 6 % ) was 8 . 7 % , p = 0 . 045 .
Similar results were obtained when all - cause mortality and all - cause strokes were counted instead of vascular mortality and ischemic strokes ( risk reduction 6 . 9 % ) .
In patients who survived an on - study stroke or myocardial infarction , the incidence of subsequent events was lower in the clopidogrel group .
The curves showing the overall event rate are shown in Figure 7 .
The event curves separated early and continued to diverge over the 3 - year follow - up period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The statistical significance favoring clopidogrel over aspirin was marginal ( p = 0 . 045 ) .
However , because aspirin is itself effective in reducing cardiovascular events in patients with recent myocardial infarction or stroke , the effect of clopidogrel is substantial .
The CAPRIE trial enrolled a population that had recent MI , recent stroke , or PAD .
The efficacy of clopidogrel relative to aspirin was heterogeneous across these subgroups ( p = 0 . 043 ) ( see Figure 8 ) .
Nonetheless , this difference may be a chance occurrence because the CAPRIE trial was not designed to evaluate the relative benefit of clopidogrel over aspirin in the individual patient subgroups .
The benefit was most apparent in patients who were enrolled because of peripheral arterial disease and less apparent in stroke patients .
In patients who were enrolled in the trial on the sole basis of a recent myocardial infarction , clopidogrel was not numerically superior to aspirin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 No Demonstrated Benefit of Clopidogrel plus Aspirin in Patients with Multiple Risk Factors or Established Vascular Disease CHARISMA The CHARISMA trial was a 15 , 603 subject , randomized , double - blind , parallel group study comparing clopidogrel ( 75 mg daily ) to placebo for prevention of ischemic events in patients with vascular disease or multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis .
All subjects were treated with aspirin 75 mg to 162 mg daily .
The mean duration of treatment was 23 months .
The study failed to demonstrate a reduction in the occurrence of the primary endpoint , a composite of CV death , MI , or stroke .
A total of 534 ( 6 . 9 % ) patients in the clopidogrel group versus 573 ( 7 . 4 % ) patients in the placebo group experienced a primary outcome event ( p = 0 . 22 ) .
Bleeding of all severities was more common in the subjects randomized to clopidogrel .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clopidogrel tablets , USP 75 mg are available as pink , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets imprinted with “ 894 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets are provided as follows : Bottles of 30 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … … NDC 47335 - 894 - 83 Bottles of 90 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … … NDC 47335 - 894 - 81 Bottles of 90 … … … NDC 47335 - 894 - 19 Bottles of 500 … … .
NDC 47335 - 894 - 13 Bottles of 1000 ..
NDC 47335 - 894 - 18 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in well - closed containers as defined in USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read FDA approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Discontinuation Advise patients not to discontinue clopidogrel tablets without first discussing it with the healthcare provider who prescribed it [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Bleeding Advise patients that they : • will bruise and bleed more easily • will take longer than usual to stop bleeding • must report any unanticipated , prolonged , or excessive bleeding , or blood in their stool or urine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura Instruct patients to get prompt medical attention if they experience symptoms of TTP that cannot otherwise be explained [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Invasive Procedures Advise patients to inform physicians and dentists that they are taking clopidogrel tablets before any surgery or dental procedure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Proton Pump Inhibitors Advise patients not to take omeprazole or esomeprazole while taking clopidogrel tablets .
Dexlansoprazole , lansoprazole , and pantoprazole had less pronounced effects on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel tablets than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Medication Guide Dispense with Medication Guide available at : https : / / www . sunpharma . com / usa / products Clopidogrel Tablets , USP ( kloe - PID - oh - grel ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking clopidogrel tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about clopidogrel tablets ?
1 .
Clopidogrel tablets may not work as well in people who : • have certain genetic factors that affect how the body breaks down clopidogrel .
Your doctor may do genetic tests to make sure clopidogrel tablets are right for you .
• take certain medicines , especially omeprazole ( Prilosec ® * ) or esomeprazole ( Nexium ® * ) .
Your doctor may change the medicine you take for stomach acid problems while you take clopidogrel tablets .
2 .
Clopidogrel tablets can cause bleeding which can be serious and can sometimes lead to death .
Clopidogrel tablets are a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
While you take clopidogrel tablets : • you may bruise and bleed more easily • you are more likely to have nose bleeds • it will take longer for any bleeding to stop Call your doctor right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of bleeding : • unexpected bleeding or bleeding that lasts a long time • blood in your urine ( pink , red or brown urine ) • red or black stools ( looks like tar ) • bruises that happen without a known cause or get larger • cough up blood or blood clots • vomit blood or your vomit looks like coffee grounds Do not stop taking clopidogrel tablets without talking to the doctor who prescribes it for you .
People who stop taking clopidogrel tablets too soon have a higher risk of having a heart attack or dying .
If you must stop clopidogrel tablets because of bleeding , your risk of a heart attack may be higher .
What are clopidogrel tablets ?
Clopidogrel tablets are prescription medicines used to treat people who have any of the following : • chest pain due to heart problems • poor circulation in their legs ( peripheral arterial disease ) • a heart attack • a stroke Clopidogrel is used alone or with aspirin to lower your chance of having another serious problem with your heart or blood vessels such as heart attack , stroke , or blood clot that can lead to death .
Platelets are blood cells that help your blood clot normally .
Clopidogrel tablets help to prevent platelets from sticking together and forming a clot that can block an artery .
It is not known if clopidogrel tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take clopidogrel tablets ?
Do not take clopidogrel tablets if you : • currently have a condition that causes bleeding , such as a stomach ulcer • are allergic to clopidogrel or other ingredients in clopidogrel tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in clopidogrel tablets .
What should I tell my doctor before taking clopidogrel tablets ?
Before you take clopidogrel tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have a history of bowel ( gastrointestinal ) or stomach ulcers .
• have a history of bleeding problems .
• plan to have surgery or a dental procedure .
See “ How should I take clopidogrel tablets ? ”
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if clopidogrel tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if clopidogrel passes into your breast milk .
A decision should be made with your healthcare provider to avoid or discontinue breastfeeding when continuing clopidogrel is needed .
• have had an allergy or reaction to any medicine used to treat your disease .
Tell all of your doctors and your dentist that you are taking clopidogrel tablets .
They should talk to the doctor who prescribed clopidogrel tablets for you before you have any surgery or invasive procedure .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription , non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Clopidogrel tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how clopidogrel tablets work .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about clopidogrel tablets ? ”
Clopidogrel tablets may increase blood levels of other medicines such as repaglinide ( Prandin ® * ) .
Taking clopidogrel tablets with certain other medicines may increase your risk of bleeding .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • aspirin , especially if you have had a stroke .
Always talk to your doctor about whether you should take aspirin along with clopidogrel tablets to treat your condition .
• nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of NSAID medicines if you are not sure .
• warfarin ( Coumadin ® * , Jantoven ® * ) • selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of SSRI or SNRI medicines if you are not sure .
• rifampin ( used to treat severe infections ) • other antiplatelet agents Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take clopidogrel tablets ?
• Take clopidogrel tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Do not change your dose or stop taking clopidogrel tablets without talking to your doctor first .
Stopping clopidogrel tablets may increase your risk of heart attack or stroke .
• Take clopidogrel tablets with aspirin as instructed by your doctor .
• If you miss a dose , take clopidogrel tablets as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses of clopidogrel tablets at the same time unless your doctor tells you to .
• If you take too many clopidogrel tablets , call your doctor or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
• Talk with your doctor about stopping your clopidogrel tablets before you have surgery .
Your doctor may tell you to stop taking clopidogrel tablets at least 5 days before you have surgery to avoid excessive bleeding during surgery .
What are the possible side effects of clopidogrel tablets ?
Clopidogrel tablets can cause serious side effects including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about clopidogrel tablets ? ”
• A blood clotting problem called Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( TTP ) .
TTP can happen with clopidogrel tablets , sometimes after a short time ( less than 2 weeks ) .
TTP is a blood clotting problem where blood clots form in blood vessels ; and can happen anywhere in the body .
TTP needs to be treated in a hospital right away because it may cause death .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these symptoms and they cannot be explained by another medical condition : • purplish spots ( called purpura ) on the skin or in the mouth ( mucous membranes ) due to bleeding under the skin • your skin or the whites of your eyes are yellow ( jaundice ) • you feel tired or weak • your skin looks very pale • fever • fast heart rate or feeling short of breath • headache • speech changes • confusion • coma • stroke • seizure • low amount of urine , or urine that is pink or has blood in it • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea • vision changes • persistent low blood sugar symptoms Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Tell your doctor if you develop an allergic reaction including skin reactions while taking clopidogrel tablets .
These are not all the possible side effects of clopidogrel tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store clopidogrel tablets ?
• Store clopidogrel tablets at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) Keep clopidogrel tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about clopidogrel tablets Medicines are sometimes used for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not take clopidogrel tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clopidogrel tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about clopidogrel tablets .
If you would like more information , talk to your doctor .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about clopidogrel tablets that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 .
What are the ingredients in clopidogrel tablets ?
Active ingredient : clopidogrel bisulfate , USP Inactive ingredients : Tablet : mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , low substituted hydroxypropylcellulose , polyethylene glycol , hydrogenated castor oil Film coating : hypromellose , iron oxide red , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide , triacetin Imprinting ink : shellac glaze , black iron oxide , N - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , ammonium hydroxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
* All trademark names are the property of their respective owners .
Dispense with Medication Guide available at : https : / / www . sunpharma . com / usa / products Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Ind .
Ltd .
Halol - Baroda Highway , Halol - 389 350 , Gujarat , India .
Revised : 10 / 2022 5235552 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 47335 - 894 - 81 Clopidogrel Tablets , USP 75 mg PHARMACIST : Dispense with Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 90 Tablets SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
