Package Insert Administer only after dilution via central venous catheter .
DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL of 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP contains : Hydrous Dextrose USP 70 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 4 . 6 ( 3 . 2 - 6 . 5 ) ; Calculated Osmolarity : 3530 mOsmol / liter Calories per liter : 2380 ; Calculated Specific Gravity 1 . 23 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP is sterile , nonpyrogenic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Hydrous Dextrose USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] 198 . 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP provides calories and is a source of water for hydration .
This solution is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Dextrose is readily metabolized , may decrease losses of body protein and nitrogen , promotes glycogen deposition and decreases or prevents ketosis if sufficient doses are provided .
70 % dextrose solution provides a maximum source of calories in a minimal fluid volume .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This intravenous solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of calories and water for hydration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing dextrose may be contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to corn products .
Administration of solutions containing hypertonic dextrose is contraindicated in patients with intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage , diabetic coma or delirium tremens , especially if such patients are already dehydrated .
WARNINGS The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Solutions containing dextrose without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility of agglomeration .
Excessive administration of potassium - free dextrose solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
Serum potassium levels should be maintained and potassium supplemented as required .
Hypertonic dextrose solutions ( above approximately 600 mOsmol / liter ) may cause thrombosis if infused via a peripheral vein .
It is , therefore , advisable to administer such solutions via an intravenous catheter placed in a large central vein , preferably the superior vena cava .
Concentrations of Dextrose Injection , USP 20 % and greater should be administered exclusively by this route .
Rapid administration of solutions containing hypertonic dextrose may produce significant hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome .
Patients should be observed for signs of mental confusion and loss of consciousness , especially in patients with chronic uremia or carbohydrate intolerance .
If undetected and untreated , this can lead to osmotic dehydration , hyperosmolar coma and death .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
PRECAUTIONS General This solution should be used with care in patients with hypervolemia , renal insufficiency , urinary tract obstruction , or impending or frank cardiac decompensation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
Prolonged administration of solutions containing hypertonic dextrose may adversely affect the production of insulin in some patients .
To avoid this potential danger , and to minimize hyperglycemia and consequent glycosuria , it may be necessary to add insulin to the infusion .
Periodically measure blood and urinary glucose .
Essential electrolytes , minerals , and vitamins should be supplied as needed .
When infusions of concentrated dextrose are discontinued , it is advisable to substitute a solution of 5 % or 10 % dextrose to prevent rebound hypoglycemia .
Hypokalemia may develop during parenteral administration of hypertonic dextrose solutions .
Sufficient amounts of potassium should be added to dextrose solutions administered to fasting patients with good renal function , especially those on digitalis therapy .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Do not use unless solution is clear , closure is intact and vacuum is present .
This drug product contains no more than 25 µg / L of aluminum .
Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require tailoring of the electrolyte pattern , in this or alternative solutions .
Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Hypertonic Dextrose Injections , USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
70 % Dextrose Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery As reported in the literature , dextrose solutions have been administered during labor and delivery .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Hypertonic Dextrose Injection , USP is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use In neonates or in very small infants even small volumes of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Care must be exercised in treatment of neonates , especially pre - term neonates , whose renal function may be immature and whose ability to excrete fluid and solute loads may be limited .
Fluid intake , urine output , and serum electrolytes should be monitored closely .
Serum glucose concentrations should be frequently monitored when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly infants , neonates , and low birth weight infants .
See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
See WARNINGS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solution may cause local pain and venous irritation .
Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance .
Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Dextrose may be administered at a rate of 0 . 5 g / kg / hour without producing glycosuria .
Hyperglycemia and glycosuria may be a function of rate of administration or metabolic insufficiency .
Appropriate therapy may include slowing of the infusion rate and administration of insulin .
Too rapid administration of hypertonic dextrose solution may result in hyperosmolar syndrome with signs of mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
If undetected and untreated , this can lead to osmotic dehydration , hyperosmolar coma and death .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ’ s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only .
Hypertonic , administer only after dilution via central venous catheter .
Dosage is to be directed by a physician and is dependent upon age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
Dextrose may be administered to normal individuals at a rate of 0 . 5 g / kg / hour without producing glycosuria .
At the maximum infusion rate of 0 . 8 g / kg / hour , approximately 95 % of the dextrose is retained .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Pediatric Use There is no specific pediatric dose .
The dose is dependent on weight , clinical condition , and laboratory results .
Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference text .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 1000 mL glass containers , packaged 6 per case .
NDC REF Size 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0264 - 1290 - 55 S1290 - SS 1000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C / 104 ° F does not adversely affect the product .
Rx only Revised : January 2014 Directions for Use of B . Braun Glass Containers with Solid Stoppers Designed for use with a vented set .
Use 18 to 22 gauge needle size for admixing or withdrawing solutions from the glass bottle .
• Before use , perform the following checks : • Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the bottle for cracks or other damage .
In checking for cracks , do not be confused by normal surface marks and seams on the bottom and sides of the bottle .
These are not flaws .
Look for bright reflections that have depth and penetrate into the wall of the bottle .
Reject any such bottle .
• To remove the outer closure , lift the tear tab and pull up , over , and down until it is below the stopper ( see Figure 1 ) .
Use a circular pulling motion on the tab until it breaks away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Grasp and remove the metal disk , exercising caution not to touch the exposed sterile stopper surface .
Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
• When adding medication to the container prior to administration , swab the target area of the rubber stopper , inject medication and mix thoroughly by gentle agitation .
• Refer to Directions for Use of the set being used .
Insert the set spike into the bottle through the target area of the rubber stopper .
Allow the fluid to flow and remove air from the tubing before administration begins .
Hang the container .
• After admixture and during administration , re - inspect the solution frequently .
If any evidence of solution contamination or instability is found or if the patient exhibits any signs of fever , chills or other reactions not readily explainable , discontinue administration immediately and notify the physician .
• Spiking , additions , or transfers should be made immediately after exposing the sterile stopper surface .
Check for vacuum at first puncture of stopper .
Admixture by needle or syringe should be made through the target area of the rubber stopper ; contents should be drawn by vacuum into the bottle .
Admixture by spiked vial should also be through the target area of the rubber stopper ( see Figure 2 ) .
If contents of initial addition are not drawn into the bottle , vacuum is not present and the unit should be discarded .
Each addition / transfer will reduce the vacuum remaining in the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If the first puncture of the stopper is the administration set spike , insert the spike fully into the target area of the rubber stopper and promptly invert the bottle .
Verify vacuum by observing rising air bubbles .
Do not use the bottle if vacuum is not present .
• If admixture or set insertion is not performed immediately following removal of protective metal disk , swab stopper surface .
Notice : Variation in color between different lots , and between units of the same lot , is normal for carbohydrate solutions , and electrolyte solutions containing sugars .
These color differences have no effect on the therapeutic value of the solutions .
Distinction should be made between color ( tint ) and clarity ( transparency ) .
This solution may be colored and is satisfactory for use if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 www . bbraun . com Made in USA Y36 - 002 - 858 LD - 448 - 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Container Label 1000 mL NDC 0264 - 1290 - 55 S1290 - SS DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 70 % NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION MUST BE DILUTED Each 100 mL contains : Hydrous Dextrose USP 70 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 4 . 6 ( 3 . 2 - 6 . 5 ) , Hypertonic Calc .
Osmolarity : 3530 mOsmol / liter Calc .
Specific Gravity : 1 . 23 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA Made in USA Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Dosage and Administration : See Package Insert .
Caution : Do not use unless solution is clear , closure is intact and vacuum is present .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Rx only HK - 22603 Y37 - 002 - 475 LD - 287 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
