Active Ingredient Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus Oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough Suppressant and Topical analgesic Cough Suppressant Cough Suppressant and Topical Analgesic .
Uses on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains .
Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema .
When using this product , do not heat , microwave , add hot water or any container where heating water may cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions see important warnings under " When using this product " adults and children 2 years and over : rub a thick layer on chest and throat or rub on sore aching muscles cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor children under 2 years do not use .
Other information store at room temperature cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , petrolatum , thymol , turpentine oil * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter and Gamble , distributor of the registered trademark Vicks ( r ) .
Vaporizing Chest Rub Cough Suppressant Topical Analgesic Ointment NET WT 4 OZ ( 113 g ) DISTRIBUTED BY GREENBRIER INTERNATIONAL , INC .
CHESAPEAKE , VA 23320 MADE IN CHINA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
