[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % is a soft , white , water dispersible cream containing the antimicrobial agent silver sulfadiazine in micronized form for topical application .
Each gram of silver sulfadiazine cream contains 10 mg of micronized silver sulfadiazine .
This active agent has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Silver sulfadiazine cream contains 1 % w / w silver sulfadiazine .
The vehicle in which the active ingredient is dispersed consists of water , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , isopropyl myristate , and sorbitan monooleate with 0 . 3 % methylparaben as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Silver sulfadiazine has broad antimicrobial activity .
It is bactericidal for many gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria as well as being effective against yeast .
Results from in vitro testing are listed below .
Sufficient data have been obtained to demonstrate that silver sulfadiazine will inhibit bacteria that are resistant to other antimicrobial agents and that the compound is superior to sulfadiazine .
Studies utilizing radioactive micronized silver sulfadiazine , electron microscopy , and biochemical techniques have revealed that the mechanism of action of silver sulfadiazine on bacteria differs from silver nitrate and sodium sulfadiazine .
Silver sulfadiazine acts only on the cell wall to produce its bactericidal effect .
Results of In Vitro Testing With Silver Sulfadiazine Cream , 1 % Concentration of Silver Sulfadiazine Number of Sensitive Strains / Total Number of Strains Tested • Genus and Species 50 micrograms / mL 100 micrograms / mL Xanthomonas ( Pseudomonas ) Maltophilia 7 / 7 7 / 7 Enterobacter Species 48 / 50 50 / 50 Enterobacter cloacae 24 / 24 24 / 24 Klebsiella Species 53 / 54 54 / 54 Escherichia Coli 63 / 63 63 / 63 Serratia Species 27 / 28 28 / 28 Proteus Mirabilis 53 / 53 53 / 53 Morganella Morganii 10 / 10 10 / 10 Providencia Rettgeri 2 / 2 2 / 2 Proteus Vulgaris 2 / 2 2 / 2 Providencia Species 1 / 1 1 / 1 Citrobacter Species 10 / 10 10 / 10 • Acinetobacter Calcoaceticus 10 / 11 11 / 11 Clostridium Perfringens 0 / 2 2 / 2 Clostridium Perfringens 0 / 2 2 / 2 Candida Albicans 43 / 50 50 / 50 Silver sulfadiazine is not a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and may be useful in situations where such agents are contraindicated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % is a topical antimicrobial drug indicated as an adjunct for the prevention and treatment of wound sepsis in patients with second and third degree burns .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to silver sulfadiazine or any of the other ingredients in the preparation .
Because sulfonamide therapy is known to increase the possibility of kernicterus , silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % should not be used on pregnant women approaching or at term , on premature infants , or on newborn infants during the first 2 months of life .
WARNINGS Absorption of silver sulfadiazine varies depending upon the percent of body surface area and the extent of the tissue damage .
Although few have been reported , it is possible that any adverse reaction associated with sulfonamides may occur .
Some of the reactions which have been associated with sulfonamides are as follows : blood dyscrasias including agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and hemolytic anemia ; dermatologic and allergic reactions , including life - threatening cutaneous reactions [ Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) and exfoliative dermatitis ] ; gastrointestinal reactions , hepatitis and hepatocellular necrosis ; CNS reactions ; and toxic nephrosis .
There is a potential cross - sensitivity between silver sulfadiazine and other sulfonamides .
If allergic reactions attributable to treatment with silver sulfadiazine occur , continuation of therapy must be weighed against the potential hazards of the particular allergic reaction .
Fungal proliferation in and below the eschar may occur .
However , the incidence of clinically reported fungal superinfection is low .
The use of silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % in some cases of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase - deficient individuals may be hazardous , as hemolysis may occur .
PRECAUTIONS General .
If hepatic and renal functions become impaired and elimination of the drug decreases accumulation may occur .
Discontinuation of silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % should be weighed against the therapeutic benefit being achieved .
In considering the use of topical proteolytic enzymes in conjunction with Silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % the possibility should be noted that silver may inactivate such enzymes .
Laboratory Tests .
In the treatment of burn wounds involving extensive areas of the body , the serum sulfa concentrations may approach adult therapeutic levels ( 8 to 12 mg % ) .
Therefore , in these patients it would be advisable to monitor serum sulfa concentrations .
Renal function should be carefully monitored and the urine should be checked for sulfa crystals .
Absorption of the propylene glycol vehicle has been reported to affect serum osmolality , which may affect the interpretation of laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility .
Long - term dermal toxicity studies of 24 months duration in rats and 18 months in mice with concentrations of silver sulfadiazine three to ten times the concentration in silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % revealed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
PREGNANCY : TERATOGENIC EFFECTS : Pregnancy Category B .
A reproductive study has been performed in rabbits at doses up to three to ten times the concentration of silver sulfadiazine in silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % and has revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to silver sulfadiazine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly justified , especially in pregnant women approaching or at term .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Nursing Mothers .
It is not known whether silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % is excreted in human milk .
However , sulfonamides are known to be excreted in human milk and all sulfonamides derivatives are known to increase the possibility of kernicterus .
Because of the possibility for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from sulfonamides , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Geriatric Use .
Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % seven percent were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Pediatric Use .
Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) ADVERSE REACTIONS Several cases of transient leukopenia have been reported in patients receiving silver sulfadiazine therapy . 1 , 2 , 3 Leukopenia associated with silver sulfadiazine administration is primarily characterized by decreased neutrophil count .
Maximal white blood cell depression occurs within two to four days of initiation of therapy .
Rebound to normal leukocyte levels follows onset within two to three days .
Recovery is not influenced by continuation of silver sulfadiazine therapy .
An increased incidence has been seen in patients treated concurrently with cimetidine .
Other infrequently occurring events include skin necrosis , erythema multiforme , skin discoloration , burning sensation , rashes , and interstitial nephritis .
Reduction in bacterial growth after application of topical antibacterial agents has been reported to permit spontaneous healing of deep partial - thickness burns by preventing conversion of the partial thickness to full thickness by sepsis .
However , reduction in bacterial colonization has caused delayed separation , in some cases necessitating escharotomy in order to prevent contracture .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prompt institution of appropriate regimens for care of the burned patient is of prime importance and includes the control of shock and pain .
The burn wounds are then cleansed and debrided ; silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % is then applied under sterile conditions .
The burn areas should be covered with silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % at all times .
The cream should be applied once to twice daily to a thickness of approximately one sixteenth of an inch .
Whenever necessary , the cream should be reapplied to any areas from which it has been removed by patient activity .
Administration may be accomplished in minimal time because dressings are not required .
However , if individual patient requirements make dressings necessary , they may be used .
Reapply immediately after hydrotherapy .
Treatment with silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % should be continued until satisfactory healing has occurred or until the burn site is ready for grafting .
The drug should not be withdrawn from the therapeutic regimen while there remains the possibility of infection except if a significant adverse reaction occurs .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Caffee F , Bingham H . Leukopenia and silver sulfadiazine .
J Trauma .
1982 ; 22 : 586 – 587 .
• 2 .
Jarret F , Ellerbe S , Demling R . Acute leukopenia during topical burn therapy with silver sulfadiazine .
Amer J Surg .
1978 ; 135 : 818 – 819 .
• 3 .
Kiker RG , Carvajal HF , Micak RP , Larson DL .
A controlled study of the effects of silver sulfadiazine on white blood cell counts in burned children .
J Trauma .
1977 ; 17 : 835 – 836 .
How Supplied Silver sulfadiazine cream , USP 1 % - white to off - white cream 50 Gram jar - 68788 - 0600 - 5 25 Gram Tube – 68788 - 0600 - 2 ——— PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL ——— Silver sulfadiazine ( micronized ) 1 % in a hydrophilic ( water dispersible ) base consisting of water , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , isopropyl myristate , sorbitan monooleate , with 0 . 3 % methylparaben as a preservative .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : See insert provided with this package .
WARNING : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
For Topical Use Only .
Keep tube tightly closed .
See Crimp for Control Number / Expiration Date .
Mfd .
for : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Mfd .
by : Crown Laboratories , Inc .
Johnson City , TN 37604 Product information : 1 - 877 - 272 - 7901 P1837 . 03 NDC 68788 - 0600 - 4 ASCEND Laboratories , LLC Silver Sulfadiazine Cream , USP 1 % Rx ONLY Net Wt .
25 g Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
