Active ingredient Dimethicone 1 . 25 % Purpose Skin protectant Uses • • helps prevent and temporarily protects chafed , chapped and cracked skin .
• • helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • • Do not get into eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • Condition worsens • • Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not use on • • deep or puncture wounds • • animal bites • • serious burns Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply as needed Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , behentrimonium methosulfate , cetyl alcohol , butylene glycol , cetearyl alcohol , isopropyl palmitate , petrolatum , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel flour , distearyldimonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , sodium chloride , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Harmon ® FACE VALUES ™ Compare Ours to Aveeno ® Active Naturals ™ Daily Moisturizing Lotion * Daily Moisturizing Lotion Dimethicone Skin Protectant Relieves and protects dry skin 24 - hour moisturization Fragrance Free with NATURAL COLLOIDAL OATMEAL NET WT 8 OZ ( 227 g ) Daily Moisturizing Lotion Harmon ® Face Values ™ Daily Moisturizing Lotion combines natural oatmeal with rich emollients to provide your skin with 24 hour moisturization .
The unique qualities of oatmeal help prevent and protect dry skin , giving temporary relief from drying , chaffing and scaling .
The nourishing , non - greasy fragrance - free formula is quickly absorbed and non - comedogenic ( won ’ t clog pores ) .
This non - greasy formula leaves your skin looking soft and smooth and a naturally healthy glow .
Distributed by Harmon Stores , Inc . 650 Liberty Ave . Union , NJ 07083 USA © Harmon Stores , Inc .
Visit us at : www . facevalues . com SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Corporation , the owner of the registered trademarks Aveeno ® Active Naturals ™ .
Manufactured in Israel 4A334 B1 T1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
