ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Titanium Dioxide 11 . 38 % , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate 7 . 00 % , Ethylhexyl Salicylate 3 . 00 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclohexasiloxane , Butylene Glycol , Diphenylsiloxy Phenyl Trimethicone , Isoamyl p - Methoxycinnamate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Niacinamide , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Alcohol Denat . , Bis - Ethylhexyloxyphenol Methoxyphenyl Triazine , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Sodium Chloride , Iron Oxides ( CI 77492 ) , Sorbitan Sesquioleate , Lauryl PEG - 9 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Sorbitan Olivate , Beeswax , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Polypropylsilsesquioxane , Isododecane , Dimethicone , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 ) , Dipropylene Glycol , Acrylates / Polytrimethylsiloxymethacrylate Copolymer , Chlorphenesin , Trihydroxystearin , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Hydroxyacetophenone , Saccharum Officinarum ( Sugar Cane ) Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , Mentha Rotundifolia Leaf Extract , Propylene Carbonate , Iron Oxides ( CI 77499 ) , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Dimethiconol , Adenosine , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Disodium EDTA , Brassica Campestris ( Rapeseed ) Flower Extract , Narcissus Tazetta Extract , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Freesia Alba Flower Extract , Taraxacum Officinale ( Dandelion ) Extract , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Flower Extract , Oxalis Hedysaroides Extract , Papaver Rhoeas Flower Extract , Glycerin , Tocopherol PURPOSE Purpose : Sunscreen WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only 1 ) It is recommend to stop using the product and talk to dermatologist immediately if you are suffering such conditions : rash , swell up , itchiness .
2 ) Do not apply this product on any skin trouble .
3 ) Caution for storage and handling ; always recap after use .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
Avoid extremely high and low temperature and direct sunlight .
4 ) For the cleanliness in using the product , do not share the puff with someone else and it is recommended to keep it clean .
DESCRIPTION Uses : Helps prevent sunburn .
Directions : 1 ) Use at the sunscreen step after your basic skin care routine ( it works as a sunblock , makeup base , and foundation ) or Make - up before and after can be used .
2 ) Using the puff applicator , press down on the cushion sponge to get the foundation on the puff .
3 ) Close the inner lid tightly after each use to preserve freshness .
Not closing the lid may cause the beneficial ingredients to evaporate and make the cushion sponge to shrink .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
