Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each unit dose ) Carboxymethylcellulose sodium 0 . 5 % Purpose Eye lubricant Uses • For the temporary relief of burning , irritation , and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun .
• May be used as a protectant against further irritation of the eye .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy .
When using this product • To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Once open , discard .
• Do not touch unit dose tip to eye .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye , or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • TWIST AND REMOVE TAB .
• Place 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed for relief and discard container .
• If used for post - operative ( e . g . , LASIK ) dryness and discomfort , follow your eye doctor ' s instructions .
Other Information • Use only if single - use container in intact .
• Use before expiration date marked on container .
• RETAIN THIS CARTON FOR FUTURE REFERENCE .
Inactive ingredients Calcium chloride , hydrochloric acid [ 1 ] , magnesium chloride , potassium chloride , purified water , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide null , and sodium lactate .
[ 1 ] May or may not contain this ingredient to adjust pH . Questions or comments ?
800 . 477 . 2884 , M - F 8 AM – 5 PM Eastern Time You can also report serious side effects to this number .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 32 Ampule Carton NDC 69183 - 200 - 32 Eyes Alive ™ Lubricating Eye Drops Lubricant / carboxymethylcellulose sodium Long lasting moisturizing drops to keep your Eyes Feeling Alive !
IMMEDIATE RELIEF FOR DRY IRRITATED EYES 32 Sterile Single - Use Containers 0 . 02 fl oz ( 0 . 6 mL ) each MADE IN THE USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
