ACTIVE INGREDIENT Povidone Iodine USP 7 . 5 % w / v ( equivalent to 0 . 75 % titratable iodine ) PURPOSE Antiseptic USES • Surgical hand scrub for health care processionals • Health Care Antiseptic for preparation of the skin prior to surgery • First Aid Antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns WARNINGS For external use only .
Do not • use in the eyes • apply over large areas of the body • use on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine • use as a first aid antiseptic for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor in case of • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor • if condition persists for more than 72 hours • if irritation and redness develop Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS As a surgical hand scrub for use by health care professionals • clean under nails with a nail pick • nails should be maintained with 1 millimeter free edge • wet hands and forearms • apply milliliter ( teaspoon ) or palmful to hands and forearms • scrub thoroughly paying particular attention to nails , cuticles and interdigital spaces • rinse and repeat scrub For preparation of the skin prior to surgery • clean the affected area • apply to the operative site prior to surgery As a first aid antiseptic • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product to the area 1 - 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS citric acid , glycerin , nonoxynol - 9 , PEG - 300 , sodium hydroxide , sodium phosphate , water LABEL INFORMATION Triad Cat .
No . 10 - 8308 NDC 50730 - 8308 - 3 scrub POVIDONE IODINE SOLUTION , USP 7 . 5 % Povidone Iodine ( 0 . 75 % titratable iodine ) Antiseptic / Germicide Antiseptic for preparation of the skin prior to surgery .
Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection First aid antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns For hospital and professional use only Triad Disposables , Inc .
Brookfield , WI 53045 USA 8 fl .
oz .
( 236 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
