Active ingredient ( in each 19 g adult dose / rounded tablespoon ) Methylcellulose 2 g ( a non - allergenic fiber ) Purpose Bulk - forming fiber laxative Uses • • relieves constipation ( irregularity ) • • helps to restore and maintain regularity • • for treating bowel disorders when recommended by a doctor • • generally provide effect in 12 - 72 hours Warnings CHOKING : taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting , or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • • a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • • sensitivity to any of the ingredients Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you have rectal bleeding • • you fail to have a bowl movement after use .
• • These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
When using this product • • do not exceed recommended maximum daily dose unless directed by a doctor • • do not use laxative products for a period longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Directions • • MIX THIS PRODUCT ( CHILD OR ADULT DOSE ) WITH AT LEAST 8 OUNCES ( A FULL GLASS ) OF WATER OR OTHER FLUID .
TAKING THIS PRODUCT WITHOUT ENOUGH LIQUID MAY CAUSE CHOKING .
SEE CHOKING WARNING • • use product at the first sign of constipation or irregularity • • put one dose in a full glass of cold water • • stir briskly and drink promptly • • drinking another glass of water is helpful Age Dose adults & children above 12 years of age and over One rounded tablespoon .
( 19 g ) in 8 ounces of water fluid up to 3 times daily at the first sign of constipation or irregularity children 6 - 12 years of age Children under 6 years of age half the adult dose in 8 ounces of water once daily .
ask a doctor Other information • • Each adult dose contains approximately • • 3 mg of sodium • • 105 mg potassium • • contributes 60 calories from sucrose and sorbitol • • store at room temperature • • protect contents from humidity • • keep tightly closed Tamper Evident : Do not use if printed seal under cap is torn or missing Inactive ingredients citric acid , FD & C yellow 6 aluminum lake , maltodextrin , flavor ( natural and artificial ) , potassium citrate , , silica , sucrose , Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 800 - 616 - 2471 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by GlaxoSmithKline the distributor of CITRUCEL ® Distributed by : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS 17177 N Laurel Park Drive , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 , USA DIRECTIONS FOR USE [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Fill glass with at least 8 ounces of cold water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Add the adult or child dose listed in the directions .
3 .
Stir briskly until dissolved and drink promptly .
Drinking an additional glass of water is helpful .
TAMPER EVIDENT PACKAGE Do not use if printed seal under cap is torn or missing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0904 - 5675 - 16 FIBER THERAPY Methylcellulose Easy to Mix No Gritty Texture 100 % Soluble Fiber for Controlled Regularity ORANGE FLAVOR NET WT 16 OZ ( 454 GRAMS ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
