Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 9 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) 6 / 2022 WARNING : RISK OF THYROID C - CELL TUMORS • In male and female rats , dulaglutide causes a dose - related and treatment - duration - dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C - cell tumors ( adenomas and carcinomas ) after lifetime exposure .
It is unknown whether TRULICITY causes thyroid C - cell tumors , including medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) , in humans as human relevance of dulaglutide - induced rodent thyroid C - cell tumors has not been determined [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
• TRULICITY is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC and in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( MEN 2 ) .
Counsel patients regarding the potential risk of MTC with use of TRULICITY and inform them of symptoms of thyroid tumors ( e . g . , mass in the neck , dysphagia , dyspnea , persistent hoarseness ) .
Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with TRULICITY [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF THYROID C - CELL TUMORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Dulaglutide causes thyroid C - cell tumors in rats .
It is unknown whether TRULICITY causes thyroid C - cell tumors , including medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) , in humans as the human relevance of dulaglutide - induced rodent thyroid C - cell tumors has not been determined ( 5 . 1 , 13 . 1 ) .
• TRULICITY is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC and in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( MEN 2 ) .
Counsel patients regarding the potential risk of MTC and symptoms of thyroid tumors ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TRULICITY ® is indicated • as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
• to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events ( cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , or non - fatal stroke ) in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors .
TRULICITY ® is a glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) receptor agonist indicated : • as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
• to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors .
Limitations of Use : • Has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
Consider other antidiabetic therapies in these patients ( 1 , 5 . 2 ) .
• Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ) .
• Not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease , including severe gastroparesis ( 1 , 5 . 6 ) .
Limitations of Use • TRULICITY has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
• TRULICITY should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
• TRULICITY has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease , including severe gastroparesis and is therefore not recommended in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initiate at 0 . 75 mg subcutaneously once weekly .
Increase the dose to 1 . 5 mg once weekly for additional glycemic control .
• If additional glycemic control is needed , increase the dose to 3 mg once weekly after at least 4 weeks on the 1 . 5 mg dose ( 2 . 1 ) .
• If additional glycemic control is needed , increase to the maximum dose of 4 . 5 mg once weekly after at least 4 weeks on the 3 mg dose .
( 2 . 1 ) .
• If a dose is missed , administer the missed dose as soon as possible if there are at least 3 days ( 72 hours ) until the next scheduled dose ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Administer once weekly at any time of day with or without food ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Inject subcutaneously in the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Dosage • The recommended initiating dose of TRULICITY is 0 . 75 mg injected subcutaneously once weekly .
• Increase the dose to 1 . 5 mg once weekly for additional glycemic control .
• If additional glycemic control is needed , increase the dose to 3 mg once weekly after at least 4 weeks on the 1 . 5 mg dose .
• If additional glycemic control is needed , increase the dose to the maximum dose of 4 . 5 mg once weekly after at least 4 weeks on the 3 mg dose .
• If a dose is missed , instruct patients to administer as soon as possible if there are at least 3 days ( 72 hours ) until the next scheduled dose .
If less than 3 days remain before the next scheduled dose , skip the missed dose and administer the next dose on the regularly scheduled day .
In each case , patients can then resume their regular once weekly dosing schedule .
• The day of weekly administration can be changed if necessary , as long as the last dose was administered 3 or more days before .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions • Administer TRULICITY once weekly , any time of day , with or without food .
• Inject TRULICITY subcutaneously in the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm .
• Rotate injection sites with each dose .
• Inspect TRULICITY visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use TRULICITY if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• When using TRULICITY with insulin , administer as separate injections and never mix .
It is acceptable to inject TRULICITY and insulin in the same body region , but the injections should not be adjacent to each other .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : TRULICITY is a clear and colorless solution available as : • 0 . 75 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen • 1 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen • 3 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen • 4 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen • Injection : 0 . 75 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen ( 3 ) • Injection : 1 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen ( 3 ) • Injection : 3 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen ( 3 ) • Injection : 4 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose pen ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TRULICITY is contraindicated in patients with : • Personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) or in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( MEN 2 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Serious hypersensitivity reaction to dulaglutide or to any of the product components .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema have been reported with TRULICITY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma or in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) .
• Patients with a serious hypersensitivity reaction to TRULICITY or any of the product components ( 4 , 5 . 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thyroid C - cell Tumors : See Boxed Warning ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Pancreatitis : Has been reported in clinical trials .
Discontinue promptly if pancreatitis is suspected .
Do not restart if pancreatitis is confirmed ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Hypoglycemia : Concomitant use with an insulin secretagogue or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia , including severe hypoglycemia .
Reducing the dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin may be necessary ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylactic reactions and angioedema ) have occurred .
Discontinue TRULICITY and promptly seek medical advice ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Acute Kidney Injury : Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Severe Gastrointestinal Disease : Use may be associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions , sometimes severe .
Has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease and is not recommended in these patients ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Diabetic Retinopathy Complications : Have been reported in a cardiovascular outcomes trial .
Monitor patients with a history of diabetic retinopathy ( 5 . 7 ) .
• Acute Gallbladder Disease : If cholelithiasis or cholecystitis are suspected , gallbladder studies are indicated ( 5 . 8 ) .
5 . 1 Risk of Thyroid C - cell Tumors In male and female rats , dulaglutide causes a dose - related and treatment - duration - dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C - cell tumors ( adenomas and carcinomas ) after lifetime exposure [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) receptor agonists have induced thyroid C - cell adenomas and carcinomas in mice and rats at clinically relevant exposures .
It is unknown whether TRULICITY will cause thyroid C - cell tumors , including medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) , in humans , as the human relevance of dulaglutide - induced rodent thyroid C - cell tumors has not been determined .
One case of MTC was reported in a patient treated with TRULICITY in a clinical study .
This patient had pretreatment calcitonin levels approximately 8 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) .
An additional case of C - cell hyperplasia with elevated calcitonin levels following treatment was reported in the cardiovascular outcomes trial ( REWIND ) .
Cases of MTC in patients treated with liraglutide , another GLP - 1 receptor agonist , have been reported in the postmarketing period ; the data in these reports are insufficient to establish or exclude a causal relationship between MTC and GLP - 1 receptor agonist use in humans .
TRULICITY is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC or in patients with MEN 2 .
Counsel patients regarding the potential risk for MTC with the use of TRULICITY and inform them of symptoms of thyroid tumors ( e . g . a mass in the neck , dysphagia , dyspnea , persistent hoarseness ) .
Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with TRULICITY .
Such monitoring may increase the risk of unnecessary procedures , due to the low test specificity for serum calcitonin and a high background incidence of thyroid disease .
Significantly elevated serum calcitonin values may indicate MTC and patients with MTC usually have calcitonin values > 50 ng / L .
If serum calcitonin is measured and found to be elevated , the patient should be further evaluated .
Patients with thyroid nodules noted on physical examination or neck imaging should also be further evaluated .
5 . 2 Pancreatitis In a pooled analysis from the original registration studies , 12 ( 3 . 4 cases per 1000 patient years ) pancreatitis - related adverse reactions were reported in patients exposed to TRULICITY versus 3 in non - incretin comparators ( 2 . 7 cases per 1000 patient years ) .
An analysis of adjudicated events revealed 5 cases of confirmed pancreatitis in patients exposed to TRULICITY ( 1 . 4 cases per 1000 patient years ) versus 1 case in non - incretin comparators ( 0 . 88 cases per 1000 patient years ) .
Based on an analysis of adjudicated events in a clinical study evaluating Trulicity 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , or 4 . 5 mg once weekly , pancreatitis occurred in 1 patient exposed to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( 0 . 2 % ) , in 2 patients exposed to TRULICITY 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) , and 3 patients exposed to TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) .
After initiation of TRULICITY , observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis , including persistent severe abdominal pain , sometimes radiating to the back , which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue TRULICITY .
If pancreatitis is confirmed , TRULICITY should not be restarted .
TRULICITY has not been evaluated in patients with a prior history of pancreatitis .
Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Patients receiving TRULICITY in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may have an increased risk of hypoglycemia , including severe hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The risk of hypoglycemia may be lowered by a reduction in the dose of sulfonylurea ( or other concomitantly administered insulin secretagogue ) or insulin .
Inform patients using these concomitant medications of the risk of hypoglycemia and educate them on the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema in patients treated with TRULICITY [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue TRULICITY ; treat promptly per standard of care , and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve .
Do not use in patients with a previous hypersensitivity reaction to TRULICITY [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported with other GLP - 1 receptor agonists .
Use caution in a patient with a history of angioedema or anaphylaxis with another GLP - 1 receptor agonist because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to anaphylaxis with TRULICITY .
5 . 5 Acute Kidney Injury In patients treated with GLP - 1 receptor agonists , including TRULICITY , there have been postmarketing reports of acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure , which may sometimes require hemodialysis .
Some of these events were reported in patients without known underlying renal disease .
A majority of reported events occurred in patients who had experienced nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , or dehydration .
Because these reactions may worsen renal function , use caution when initiating or escalating doses of TRULICITY in patients with renal impairment .
Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 6 Severe Gastrointestinal Disease Use of TRULICITY may be associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions , sometimes severe [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
TRULICITY has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease , including severe gastroparesis , and is therefore not recommended in these patients .
5 . 7 Diabetic Retinopathy Complications in Patients with a History of Diabetic Retinopathy In a cardiovascular outcomes trial with a median follow up of 5 . 4 years involving patients with type 2 diabetes with established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors , diabetic retinopathy complications occurred in patients treated with TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( 1 . 9 % ) and placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
These events were prospectively ascertained as a secondary composite endpoint .
The proportion of patients with diabetic retinopathy complications was larger among patients with a history of diabetic retinopathy at baseline ( TRULICITY 8 . 5 % , placebo 6 . 2 % ) than among patients without a known history of diabetic retinopathy ( TRULICITY 1 % , placebo 1 % ) .
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a temporary worsening of diabetic retinopathy .
Patients with a history of diabetic retinopathy should be monitored for progression of diabetic retinopathy .
5 . 8 Acute Gallbladder Disease Acute events of gallbladder disease such as cholelithiasis or cholecystitis have been reported in GLP - 1 receptor agonist trials and postmarketing .
In a cardiovascular outcomes trial with a median follow up of 5 . 4 years , cholelithiasis occurred at a rate of 0 . 62 / 100 patient - years in TRULICITY - treated patients and 0 . 56 / 100 patient - years in placebo - treated patients after adjusting for prior cholecystectomy .
Serious events of acute cholecystitis were reported in 0 . 5 % and 0 . 3 % of patients on TRULICITY and placebo respectively .
If cholelithiasis is suspected , gallbladder studies and appropriate clinical follow - up are indicated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious reactions are described below or elsewhere in the prescribing information : • Risk of Thyroid C - cell Tumors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Acute Kidney Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Severe Gastrointestinal Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Diabetic Retinopathy Complications in Patients with a History of Diabetic Retinopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Acute Gallbladder Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most common adverse reactions , reported in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with TRULICITY are : nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and decreased appetite ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Pool of Placebo - controlled Trials for TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg Doses The data in Table 1 are derived from a pool of placebo - controlled trials and include 1670 patients exposed to TRULICITY with a mean duration of exposure of 23 . 8 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The mean age of patients was 56 years , 1 % were 75 years or older and 53 % were male .
The population was 69 % White , 7 % Black or African American , 13 % Asian ; 30 % were of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity .
At baseline , the population had diabetes for an average of 8 years , a mean HbA1c of 8 . 0 % , and 2 . 5 % of the population reported retinopathy .
Baseline estimated renal function was normal or mildly impaired ( eGFR ≥ 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) in 96 % .
Table 1 shows adverse reactions , excluding hypoglycemia , occurring in ≥ 5 % of TRULICITY treated patients and more commonly than placebo in a pool of placebo - controlled trials .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in Pool of Placebo - Controlled Trials Occurring in ≥ 5 % of TRULICITY - Treated Patients a Includes diarrhea , fecal volume increased , frequent bowel movements .
b Includes retching , vomiting , vomiting projectile .
c Includes abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal pain upper , abdominal tenderness , gastrointestinal pain .
d Includes fatigue , asthenia , malaise .
Note : Percentages reflect the number of patients that reported at least 1 treatment - emergent occurrence of the adverse reaction .
Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 568 ) % TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg ( N = 836 ) % TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( N = 834 ) % Nausea 5 . 3 12 . 4 21 . 1 Diarrheaa 6 . 7 8 . 9 12 . 6 Vomitingb 2 . 3 6 . 0 12 . 7 Abdominal Painc 4 . 9 6 . 5 9 . 4 Decreased Appetite 1 . 6 4 . 9 8 . 6 Dyspepsia 2 . 3 4 . 1 5 . 8 Fatigued 2 . 6 4 . 2 5 . 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions In the pool of placebo - controlled trials , gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred more frequently among patients receiving TRULICITY than placebo ( placebo 21 . 3 % , 0 . 75 mg 31 . 6 % , 1 . 5 mg 41 . 0 % ) .
More patients receiving TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg ( 1 . 3 % ) and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( 3 . 5 % ) discontinued treatment due to gastrointestinal adverse reactions than patients receiving placebo ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Investigators graded the severity of gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurring on 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg of TRULICITY as “ mild ” in 58 % and 48 % of cases , respectively , “ moderate ” in 35 % and 42 % of cases , respectively , or “ severe ” in 7 % and 11 % of cases , respectively .
The following adverse reactions were reported more frequently in TRULICITY - treated patients than placebo ( frequencies listed , respectively , as : placebo ; 0 . 75 mg ; 1 . 5 mg ) : constipation ( 0 . 7 % , 3 . 9 % , 3 . 7 % ) , flatulence ( 1 . 4 % , 1 . 4 % , 3 . 4 % ) , abdominal distension ( 0 . 7 % , 2 . 9 % , 2 . 3 % ) , gastroesophageal reflux disease ( 0 . 5 % , 1 . 7 % , 2 . 0 % ) , and eructation ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 6 % , 1 . 6 % ) .
TRULICITY 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg Doses Table 2 shows adverse reactions occurring ≥ 5 % in any of the treatment groups through 36 weeks in a clinical trial with 1842 patients treated with Trulicity 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , or 4 . 5 mg once weekly as an add - on to metformin .
The adverse reaction profile is consistent with previous clinical trials .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of Patients Receiving TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , or 4 . 5 mg in a Clinical Trial through 36 Weeksaa Percentages reflect the number of patients that reported at least 1 treatment - emergent occurrence of the adverse reaction .
Adverse Reaction TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( N = 612 ) % TRULICITY 3 mg ( N = 616 ) % TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg ( N = 614 ) % Nausea 13 . 4 15 . 6 16 . 4 Diarrhea 7 . 0 11 . 4 10 . 7 Vomiting 5 . 6 8 . 3 9 . 3 Dyspepsia 2 . 8 5 . 0 2 . 6 Other Adverse Reactions Hypoglycemia Table 3 summarizes the incidence of hypoglycemia in the placebo - controlled clinical studies : episodes with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL with or without symptoms , and severe hypoglycemia , defined as an episode requiring the assistance of another person to actively administer carbohydrate , glucagon , or other resuscitative actions .
Table 3 : Incidence ( % ) of Hypoglycemia in Placebo - Controlled Trials Placebo TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Add - on to Metformin ( 26 weeks ) N = 177 N = 302 N = 304 Hypoglycemia with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL 0 0 . 3 0 . 7 Severe hypoglycemia 0 0 0 Add - on to Metformin + Pioglitazone ( 26 weeks ) N = 141 N = 280 N = 279 Hypoglycemia with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL 1 . 4 2 . 1 0 Severe hypoglycemia 0 0 0 Add - on to Glimepiride ( 24 weeks ) N = 60 - N = 239 Hypoglycemia with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL 0 - 3 . 3 Severe hypoglycemia 0 - 0 In Combination with Insulin Glargine ± Metformin ( 28 weeks ) N = 150 - N = 150 Hypoglycemia with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL 9 . 3 - 14 . 7 Severe hypoglycemia 0 - 0 . 7 Add - on to SGLT2i ± Metformin ( 24 weeks ) N = 140 N = 141 N = 142 Hypoglycemia with a glucose level < 54 mg / dL 0 . 7 0 . 7 0 . 7 Severe hypoglycemia 0 0 . 7 0 Hypoglycemia was more frequent when TRULICITY was used in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin than when used with non - secretagogues .
In a 78 - week clinical trial , hypoglycemia ( glucose level < 54 mg / dL ) occurred in 20 % and 21 % of patients when TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , were co - administered with a sulfonylurea .
Severe hypoglycemia occurred in 0 % and 0 . 7 % of patients when TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , were co - administered with a sulfonylurea .
In a 52 - week clinical trial , hypoglycemia ( glucose level < 54 mg / dL ) occurred in 77 % and 69 % of patients when TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , were co - administered with prandial insulin .
Severe hypoglycemia occurred in 2 . 7 % and 3 . 4 % of patients when TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , were co - administered with prandial insulin .
Refer to Table 3 for the incidence of hypoglycemia in patients treated in combination with basal insulin glargine .
In the clinical trial with patients on TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , TRULICITY 3 mg , or TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg once weekly , as add - on to metformin , incidences of hypoglycemia ( glucose level < 54 mg / dL ) through 36 weeks were 1 . 1 % , 0 . 3 % , and 1 . 1 % , respectively , and incidences of severe hypoglycemia were 0 . 2 % , 0 % , and 0 . 2 % , respectively .
Cholelithiasis and Cholecystitis In a cardiovascular outcomes trial with a median follow up of 5 . 4 years , cholelithiasis occurred at a rate of 0 . 62 / 100 patient - years in TRULICITY - treated patients and 0 . 56 / 100 patient - years in placebo - treated patients after adjusting for prior cholecystectomy .
Serious events of acute cholecystitis were reported in 0 . 5 % and 0 . 3 % of patients on TRULICITY and placebo respectively .
Heart Rate Increase and Tachycardia - Related Adverse Reactions TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg resulted in a mean increase in heart rate ( HR ) of 2 - 4 beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Adverse reactions of sinus tachycardia were reported more frequently in patients exposed to TRULICITY .
Sinus tachycardia was reported in 3 . 0 % , 2 . 8 % , and 5 . 6 % of patients treated with placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
Persistence of sinus tachycardia ( reported at more than 2 visits ) was reported in 0 . 2 % , 0 . 4 % and 1 . 6 % of patients treated with placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
Episodes of sinus tachycardia , associated with a concomitant increase from baseline in heart rate of ≥ 15 beats per minute , were reported in 0 . 7 % , 1 . 3 % and 2 . 2 % of patients treated with placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
Hypersensitivity Systemic hypersensitivity adverse reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , severe urticaria , systemic rash , facial edema , lip swelling ) , occurred in 0 . 5 % of patients on TRULICITY in clinical studies .
Injection - site Reactions In the placebo - controlled studies , injection - site reactions ( e . g . , injection - site rash , erythema ) were reported in 0 . 5 % of TRULICITY - treated patients and in 0 . 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
PR Interval Prolongation and Adverse Reactions of First - Degree Atrioventricular ( AV ) Block A mean increase from baseline in PR interval of 2 - 3 milliseconds was observed in TRULICITY - treated patients in contrast to a mean decrease of 0 . 9 milliseconds in placebo - treated patients .
The adverse reaction of first - degree AV block occurred more frequently in patients treated with TRULICITY than placebo ( 0 . 9 % , 1 . 7 % and 2 . 3 % for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively ) .
On electrocardiograms , a PR interval increase to at least 220 milliseconds was observed in 0 . 7 % , 2 . 5 % and 3 . 2 % of patients treated with placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
Amylase and Lipase Increase Patients exposed to TRULICITY had mean increases from baseline in lipase and / or pancreatic amylase of 14 % to 20 % , while placebo - treated patients had mean increases of up to 3 % .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity In clinical studies , 64 ( 1 . 6 % ) TRULICITY - treated patients developed anti - drug antibodies ( ADAs ) to the active ingredient in TRULICITY ( i . e . , dulaglutide ) .
Of the 64 dulaglutide - treated patients that developed dulaglutide ADAs , 34 patients ( 0 . 9 % of the overall population ) had dulaglutide - neutralizing antibodies , and 36 patients ( 0 . 9 % of the overall population ) developed antibodies against native GLP - 1 .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , the incidence of antibodies to dulaglutide cannot be directly compared with the incidence of antibodies of other products .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of TRULICITY .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Anaphylactic reactions , angioedema .
• Acute renal failure or worsening of chronic renal failure , sometimes requiring hemodialysis .
• Hepatobiliary : cholecystitis , cholelithiasis requiring cholecystectomy , cholestasis , elevation of liver enzymes , hepatitis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS TRULICITY delays gastric emptying and has the potential to reduce the rate of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications ( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) .
7 . 1 Oral Medications TRULICITY delays gastric emptying and thus has the potential to reduce the rate of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications .
The delay in gastric emptying is dose - dependent but is attenuated with the recommended dose escalation to higher doses of TRULICITY [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The delay is largest after the first dose and diminishes with subsequent doses .
In clinical pharmacology studies , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg did not affect the absorption of the tested orally administered medications to a clinically relevant degree [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There is limited experience with the use of concomitant medications in clinical trials with TRULICITY doses of 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg .
Monitor drug levels of oral medications with a narrow therapeutic index ( e . g . , warfarin ) when concomitantly administered with TRULICITY .
7 . 2 Concomitant Use with an Insulin Secretagogue ( e . g . , Sulfonylurea ) or with Insulin When initiating TRULICITY , consider reducing the dose of concomitantly administered insulin secretagogues ( such as sulfonylureas ) or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : TRULICITY should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to fetus ( 8 . 1 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data with TRULICITY in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are clinical considerations regarding the risks of poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
Based on animal reproduction studies , there may be risks to the fetus from exposure to dulaglutide during pregnancy .
TRULICITY should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In pregnant rats administered dulaglutide during organogenesis , early embryonic deaths , fetal growth reductions , and fetal abnormalities occurred at systemic exposures at least 6 - times human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 4 . 5 mg / week .
In pregnant rabbits administered dulaglutide during organogenesis , major fetal abnormalities occurred at 5 - times human exposure at the MRHD .
Adverse embryo / fetal effects in animals occurred in association with decreased maternal weight and food consumption attributed to the pharmacology of dulaglutide [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 – 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with an HbA1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 – 25 % in women with an HbA1c > 10 % .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rats given subcutaneous doses of 0 . 49 , 1 . 63 , or 4 . 89 mg / kg dulaglutide every 3 days during organogenesis had systemic exposures 2 - , 6 - , and 18 - times human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 4 . 5 mg / week , respectively , based on plasma area under the time - concentration curve ( AUC ) comparison .
Reduced fetal weights associated with decreased maternal food intake and decreased weight gain attributed to the pharmacology of dulaglutide were observed at ≥ 1 . 63 mg / kg .
Irregular skeletal ossifications and increases in post - implantation loss also were observed at 4 . 89 mg / kg .
In pregnant rabbits given subcutaneous doses of 0 . 04 , 0 . 12 , or 0 . 41 mg / kg dulaglutide every 3 days during organogenesis , systemic exposures in pregnant rabbits were 0 . 5 - , 2 - , and 5 - times human exposure at the MRHD , based on plasma AUC comparison .
Fetal visceral malformation of lung lobular agenesis and skeletal malformations of the vertebrae and / or ribs were observed in conjunction with decreased maternal food intake and decreased weight gain attributed to the pharmacology of dulaglutide at 0 . 41 mg / kg .
In a prenatal - postnatal study in F0 maternal rats given subcutaneous doses of 0 . 2 , 0 . 49 , or 1 . 63 mg / kg every third day from implantation through lactation , systemic exposures in pregnant rats were 1 - , 2 - , and 7 - times human exposure at the MRHD , based on plasma AUC comparison .
F1 pups from F0 maternal rats given 1 . 63 mg / kg dulaglutide had statistically significantly lower mean body weight from birth through postnatal day 63 for males and postnatal day 84 for females .
F1 offspring from F0 maternal rats receiving 1 . 63 mg / kg dulaglutide had decreased forelimb and hindlimb grip strength and males had delayed balano - preputial separation .
Females had decreased startle response .
These physical findings may relate to the decreased size of the offspring relative to controls as they appeared at early postnatal assessments but were not observed at a later assessment .
F1 female offspring of the F0 maternal rats given 1 . 63 mg / kg of dulaglutide had a longer mean escape time and a higher mean number of errors relative to concurrent control during 1 of 2 trials in the memory evaluation portion of the Biel water maze .
These findings occurred in conjunction with decreased F0 maternal food intake and decreased weight gain attributed to the pharmacologic activity at 1 . 63 mg / kg .
The human relevance of these memory deficits in the F1 female rats is not known .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dulaglutide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The presence of dulaglutide in milk of treated lactating animals was not determined .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for TRULICITY and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from TRULICITY or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of TRULICITY have not been established in pediatric patients .
TRULICITY is not recommended for use in pediatric patients younger than 18 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the glycemic control trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , 620 ( 18 . 6 % ) TRULICITY - treated patients were 65 years of age or older and 65 ( 1 . 9 % ) TRULICITY - treated patients were 75 years of age or older at baseline .
In the TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg treatment arm of the REWIND trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] , a total of 2619 ( 52 . 9 % ) patients were 65 years of age or older , and 484 ( 9 . 8 % ) patients were 75 years of age or older at baseline .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were detected between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment TRULICITY has been studied in patients with varying degrees of renal function , including a dedicated study in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed in these studies according to renal function [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In a clinical pharmacology study in subjects with renal impairment , including end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) , no clinically relevant change in dulaglutide pharmacokinetics ( PK ) was observed .
In the 52 - week study in patients with type 2 diabetes and moderate to severe renal impairment , the PK behavior of TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly was similar to that demonstrated in previous clinical studies [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment including end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) .
Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions .
Use TRULICITY with caution in patients with ESRD [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment In a clinical pharmacology study in subjects with varying degrees of hepatic impairment , no clinically relevant change in dulaglutide PK was observed [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
However , there is limited clinical experience in patients with mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment ; therefore , use TRULICITY with caution in these patient populations .
8 . 8 Gastroparesis Dulaglutide slows gastric emptying .
TRULICITY has not been studied in patients with preexisting gastroparesis .
Use TRULICITY with caution in patients with gastroparesis .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdoses have been reported in clinical studies .
Effects associated with these overdoses were primarily mild or moderate gastrointestinal events ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting ) and non - severe hypoglycemia .
In the event of overdose , appropriate supportive care ( including frequent plasma glucose monitoring ) should be initiated according to the patient ' s clinical signs and symptoms .
11 DESCRIPTION Dulaglutide is a human glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) receptor agonist .
The molecule is a fusion protein that consists of 2 identical , disulfide - linked chains , each containing an N - terminal GLP - 1 analog sequence covalently linked to the Fc portion of a modified human immunoglobulin G4 ( IgG4 ) heavy chain by a small peptide linker and is produced using mammalian cell ( Chinese hamster ovary ) culture .
The GLP - 1 analog portion of dulaglutide is 90 % homologous to native human GLP - 1 ( 7 - 37 ) .
Structural modifications were introduced in the GLP - 1 part of the molecule responsible for interaction with the enzyme dipeptidyl - peptidase - IV ( DPP - 4 ) .
Additional modifications were made in an area with a potential T - cell epitope and in the areas of the IgG4 Fc part of the molecule responsible for binding the high - affinity Fc receptors and half - antibody formation .
The overall molecular weight of dulaglutide is approximately 63 kilodaltons .
TRULICITY ( dulaglutide ) injection is a clear , colorless , sterile , preservative - free solution for subcutaneous use .
Each single - dose pen contains a 0 . 5 mL solution of 0 . 75 mg , 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , or 4 . 5 mg of dulaglutide and the following excipients : citric acid anhydrous ( 0 . 07 mg ) , mannitol ( 23 . 2 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 10 mg for 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg ; 0 . 125 mg for 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg ) , and trisodium citrate dihydrate ( 1 . 37 mg ) , in water for injection .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action TRULICITY contains dulaglutide , which is a human GLP - 1 receptor agonist with 90 % amino acid sequence homology to endogenous human GLP - 1 ( 7 - 37 ) .
Dulaglutide activates the GLP - 1 receptor , a membrane - bound cell - surface receptor coupled to adenylyl cyclase in pancreatic beta cells .
Dulaglutide increases intracellular cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) in beta cells leading to glucose - dependent insulin release .
Dulaglutide also decreases glucagon secretion and slows gastric emptying .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics TRULICITY lowers fasting glucose and reduces postprandial glucose ( PPG ) concentrations in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
The reduction in fasting and postprandial glucose can be observed after a single dose .
Fasting and Postprandial Glucose In a clinical pharmacology study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , treatment with once weekly TRULICITY resulted in a reduction of fasting and 2 - hour PPG concentrations , and postprandial serum glucose incremental AUC , when compared to placebo ( - 25 . 6 mg / dL , - 59 . 5 mg / dL , and - 197 mg * h / dL , respectively ) ; these effects were sustained after 6 weeks of dosing with the 1 . 5 mg dose .
First - and Second - Phase Insulin Secretion Both first - and second - phase insulin secretion were increased in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with TRULICITY compared with placebo .
Insulin and Glucagon Secretion TRULICITY stimulates glucose - dependent insulin secretion and reduces glucagon secretion .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly increased fasting insulin from baseline at Week 26 by 35 . 38 and 17 . 50 pmol / L , respectively , and C - peptide concentration by 0 . 09 and 0 . 07 nmol / L , respectively , in a monotherapy study .
In the same study , fasting glucagon concentration was reduced by 1 . 71 and 2 . 05 pmol / L from baseline with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
Gastric Motility Dulaglutide causes a delay of gastric emptying .
The delay in gastric emptying is dose - dependent but is attenuated with adequate dose escalation to higher doses of TRULICITY .
The delay is largest after the first dose and diminishes with subsequent doses .
Cardiac Electrophysiology ( QTc ) The effect of dulaglutide on cardiac repolarization was tested in a thorough QTc study .
Dulaglutide did not produce QTc prolongation at doses of 4 and 7 mg .
The maximum recommended dose is 4 . 5 mg once weekly .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of dulaglutide is similar between healthy subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Following subcutaneous administration , the time to maximum plasma concentration of dulaglutide at steady state ranges from 24 to 72 hours , with a median of 48 hours .
After reaching steady state , the accumulation ratio was approximately 1 . 56 .
Steady - state plasma dulaglutide concentrations were achieved between 2 and 4 weeks following once weekly administration .
Site of subcutaneous administration ( abdomen , upper arm , and thigh ) had no statistically significant effect on the exposure to dulaglutide .
Absorption – The mean absolute bioavailability of dulaglutide following subcutaneous administration of single 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg doses was 65 % and 47 % , respectively .
Absolute subcutaneous bioavailability for 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg doses were estimated to be similar to 1 . 5 mg although this has not been specifically studied .
Dulaglutide concentrations increased approximately proportional to dose from 0 . 75 mg to 4 . 5 mg .
Distribution – Apparent population mean central volume of distribution was 3 . 09 L and the apparent population mean peripheral volume of distribution was 5 . 98 L . Metabolism – Dulaglutide is presumed to be degraded into its component amino acids by general protein catabolism pathways .
Elimination – The apparent population mean clearance of dulaglutide was 0 . 142 L / h .
The elimination half - life of dulaglutide was approximately 5 days .
Specific Populations The intrinsic factors of age , gender , race , ethnicity , body weight , or renal or hepatic impairment do not have a clinically relevant effect on the PK of dulaglutide as shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Abbreviations : AUC = area under the time - concentration curve ; CI = confidence interval ; Cmax = maximum concentration ; ESRD = end - stage renal disease ; PK = pharmacokinetics .
Note : Reference values for weight , age , gender , and race comparisons are 93 kg , 56 years old , male , and white , respectively ; reference groups for renal and hepatic impairment data are subjects with normal renal and hepatic function from the respective clinical pharmacology studies .
The weight values shown in the plot ( 70 and 120 kg ) are the 10 th and 90 th percentiles of weight in the PK population .
Figure 1 : Impact of intrinsic factors on dulaglutide pharmacokinetics .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Renal – Dulaglutide systemic exposure was increased by 20 , 28 , 14 and 12 % for mild , moderate , severe , and ESRD renal impairment sub - groups , respectively , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
The corresponding values for increase in Cmax were 13 , 23 , 20 and 11 % , respectively ( Figure 1 ) .
Additionally , in a 52 week clinical study in patients with type 2 diabetes and moderate to severe renal impairment , the PK behavior of TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly was similar to that demonstrated in previous clinical studies [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic – Dulaglutide systemic exposure decreased by 23 , 33 and 21 % for mild , moderate and severe hepatic impairment groups , respectively , compared to subjects with normal hepatic function , and Cmax was decreased by a similar magnitude ( Figure 1 ) [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions The potential effect of co - administered medications on the PK of dulaglutide 1 . 5 mg and vice versa was studied in several single - and multiple - dose studies in healthy subjects , patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , and patients with hypertension .
Potential for Dulaglutide to Influence the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs Dulaglutide slows gastric emptying and , as a result , may reduce the extent and rate of absorption of orally co - administered medications .
In clinical pharmacology studies , dulaglutide at a dose of 1 . 5 mg did not affect the absorption of the tested orally administered medications to any clinically relevant degree .
The delay in gastric emptying is dose - dependent but is attenuated with the recommended dose escalation to higher doses of TRULICITY [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The delay is largest after the first dose and diminishes with subsequent doses .
PK measures indicating the magnitude of these interactions are presented in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Abbreviations : AUC = area under the time - concentration curve ; CI = confidence interval ; Cmax = maximum concentration ; PK = pharmacokinetics .
Note : Reference group is co - administered medication given alone .
Figure 2 : Impact of dulaglutide 1 . 5 mg on the pharmacokinetics of co - administered medications .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Potential for Co - administered Drugs to Influence the Pharmacokinetics of Dulaglutide In a clinical pharmacology study , the co - administration of a single dose of 1 . 5 mg dulaglutide with steady - state dose of 100 mg sitagliptin caused an increase in dulaglutide AUC and Cmax of approximately 38 % and 27 % , which is not considered clinically relevant .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility A 2 - year carcinogenicity study was conducted with dulaglutide in male and female rats at doses of 0 . 05 , 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 , and 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 2 - , 3 - , 8 - , and 24 - fold the MRHD of 4 . 5 mg once weekly based on AUC ) administered by subcutaneous injection twice weekly .
In rats , dulaglutide caused a dose - related and treatment - duration - dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C - cell tumors ( adenomas and / or carcinomas ) compared to controls , at ≥ 3 - fold the MRHD based on AUC .
A statistically significant increase in C - cell adenomas was observed in rats receiving dulaglutide at ≥ 0 . 5 mg / kg .
Numerical increases in thyroid C - cell carcinomas occurred at 5 mg / kg ( 24 times the MRHD based on AUC ) and were considered to be treatment - related despite the absence of statistical significance .
A 6 - month carcinogenicity study was conducted with dulaglutide in rasH2 transgenic mice at doses of 0 . 3 , 1 , and 3 mg / kg administered by subcutaneous injection twice weekly .
Dulaglutide did not produce increased incidences of thyroid C - cell hyperplasia or neoplasia at any dose .
Dulaglutide is a recombinant protein ; no genotoxicity studies have been conducted .
Human relevance of thyroid C - cell tumors in rats is unknown and could not be determined by clinical studies or nonclinical studies [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In fertility and early embryonic development studies in male and female rats , no adverse effects of dulaglutide on sperm morphology , mating , fertility , conception , and embryonic survival were observed at up to 16 . 3 mg / kg ( 55 - fold the MRHD based on AUC ) .
In female rats , an increase in the number of females with prolonged diestrus and a dose - related decrease in the mean number of corpora lutea , implantation sites , and viable embryos were observed at ≥ 4 . 9 mg / kg ( ≥ 13 - fold the MRHD based on AUC ) , which occurred in the presence of decreased maternal food consumption and body weight gain .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Zucker diabetic fatty ( ZDF ) rats were given 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 , or 5 mg / kg / twice weekly of dulaglutide ( 1 - , 3 - , and 13 - fold the MRHD based on AUC ) for 3 months .
Increases of 12 % to 33 % in total and pancreatic amylase , but not lipase , were observed at all doses without microscopic pancreatic inflammatory correlates in individual animals .
Other changes in the dulaglutide - treated animals included increased interlobular ductal epithelium without active ductal cell proliferation ( ≥ 0 . 5 mg / kg ) , increased acinar atrophy with / without inflammation ( ≥ 1 . 5 mg / kg ) , and increased neutrophilic inflammation of the acinar pancreas ( 5 mg / kg ) .
Treatment of monkeys for 12 months with 8 . 15 mg / kg / twice weekly of dulaglutide ( nearly 200 - fold the MRHD based on AUC ) demonstrated no evidence of pancreatic inflammation or pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia .
In 4 of 19 monkeys on dulaglutide treatment , there was an increase in goblet cells within the pancreatic ducts , but no differences from the control group in total amylase or lipase at study termination .
There were no proliferative changes in the thyroid C - cells .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Glycemic Control Trials in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus TRULICITY has been studied as monotherapy and in combination with metformin , sulfonylurea , metformin and sulfonylurea , metformin and thiazolidinedione , sodium - glucose co - transporter - 2 inhibitors ( SGLT2i ) with or without metformin , basal insulin with or without metformin , and prandial insulin with or without metformin .
TRULICITY has also been studied in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and moderate to severe renal impairment .
Dose escalation was performed in one study with TRULICITY doses up to 4 . 5 mg added to metformin .
All other clinical studies evaluated TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg without dose escalation ; patients were initiated and maintained on either 0 . 75 mg or 1 . 5 mg for the duration of the trials .
In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , TRULICITY produced reductions from baseline in HbA1c compared to placebo .
No overall differences in glycemic effectiveness were observed across demographic subgroups ( age , gender , race / ethnicity , duration of diabetes ) .
Monotherapy In a double - blind study with primary endpoint at 26 weeks , 807 patients inadequately treated with diet and exercise , or with diet and exercise and one antidiabetic agent used at submaximal dose , were randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or metformin 1500 to 2000 mg / day following a two - week washout .
Seventy - five percent ( 75 % ) of the randomized population were treated with one antidiabetic agent at the screening visit .
Most patients previously treated with an antidiabetic agent were receiving metformin ( ~ 90 % ) at a median dose of 1000 mg daily and approximately 10 % were receiving a sulfonylurea .
Patients had a mean age of 56 years and a mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 3 years .
Forty - four percent were male .
The White , Black and Asian race accounted for 74 % , 7 % and 8 % of the population , respectively .
Twenty - nine percent of the study population were from the US .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly resulted in reduction in HbA1c from baseline at 26 - weeks ( Table 4 ) .
The difference in observed effect size between TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , and metformin excluded the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 4 % .
Table 4 : Results at Week 26 in a Trial of TRULICITY as MonotherapyaAbbreviation : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a Intent - to - treat population .
Last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data .
Data post - onset of rescue therapy are treated as missing .
At Week 26 , primary efficacy was missing for 10 % , 12 % and 14 % of individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and metformin , respectively .
b Least - squares mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
‡ Subjects included in the analysis are a subset of the ITT population that had at least one post - baseline assessment .
The primary analysis included 265 individuals in each of the treatment arms .
26 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Metformin 1500 - 2000 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) ‡ 270 269 268 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 7 . 6 7 . 6 7 . 6 Change from baselineb - 0 . 7 - 0 . 8 - 0 . 6 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 161 164 161 Change from baselineb - 26 - 29 - 24 Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 91 . 8 92 . 7 92 . 4 Change from baselineb - 1 . 4 - 2 . 3 - 2 . 2 Combination Therapy Add - on to Metformin In this placebo - controlled , double - blind study with primary endpoint at 52 weeks , 972 patients were randomized to placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or sitagliptin 100 mg / day ( after 26 weeks , patients in the placebo treatment group received blinded sitagliptin 100 mg / day for the remainder of the study ) , all as add - on to metformin .
Randomization occurred after an 11 - week lead - in period to allow for a metformin titration period , followed by a 6 - week glycemic stabilization period .
Patients had a mean age of 54 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 7 years ; 48 % were male ; race : White , Black and Asian were 53 % , 4 % and 27 % , respectively ; and 24 % of the study population were in the US .
At the 26 - week placebo - controlled time point , the HbA1c change was 0 . 1 % , - 1 . 0 % , - 1 . 2 % , and - 0 . 6 % for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and sitagliptin , respectively .
The percentage of patients who achieved HbA1c < 7 . 0 % was 22 % , 56 % , 62 % and 39 % for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and sitagliptin , respectively .
At 26 weeks , there was a mean weight reduction of 1 . 4 kg , 2 . 7 kg , 3 . 0 kg , and 1 . 4 kg for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and sitagliptin , respectively .
There was a mean reduction of fasting glucose of 9 mg / dL , 35 mg / dL , 41 mg / dL , and 18 mg / dL for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and sitagliptin , respectively .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly resulted in a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c compared to placebo ( at 26 weeks ) and compared to sitagliptin ( at 26 and 52 weeks ) , all in combination with metformin ( Table 5 and Figure 3 ) .
Table 5 : Results at Week 52 of TRULICITY Compared to Sitagliptin used as Add - On to MetforminaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a All ITT patients randomized after the dose - finding portion of the study .
Last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data .
At Week 52 primary efficacy was missing for 15 % , 19 % , and 20 % of individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and sitagliptin , respectively .
b Least - squares ( LS ) mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
‡ Subjects included in the analysis are a subset of the ITT population that had at least one post - baseline assessment .
The primary analysis included 276 , 277 , and 270 individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and sitagliptin , respectively .
†† Multiplicity adjusted 1 - sided p - value < 0 . 001 , for superiority of TRULICITY compared to sitagliptin , assessed only for HbA1c .
## p < 0 . 001 TRULICITY compared to sitagliptin , assessed only for HbA1c < 7 . 0 % .
52 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Sitagliptin 100 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) ‡ 281 279 273 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 2 8 . 1 8 . 0 Change from baselineb - 0 . 9 - 1 . 1 - 0 . 4 Difference from sitagliptinb ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 3 ) †† - 0 . 7 ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 5 ) †† - Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % 49 ## 59 ## 33 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 174 173 171 Change from baselineb - 30 - 41 - 14 Difference from sitagliptinb ( 95 % CI ) - 15 ( - 22 , - 9 ) - 27 ( - 33 , - 20 ) - Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 85 . 5 86 . 5 85 . 8 Change from baselineb - 2 . 7 - 3 . 1 - 1 . 5 Difference from sitagliptinb ( 95 % CI ) - 1 . 2 ( - 1 . 8 , - 0 . 6 ) - 1 . 5 ( - 2 . 1 , - 0 . 9 ) - [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TRULICITY 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg Add - on to Metformin In this parallel - arm , double - blind study with primary endpoint at 36 weeks , a total of 1842 patients were randomized 1 : 1 : 1 to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , TRULICITY 3 mg , or TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg once weekly , all as add - on to metformin ( NCT03495102 ) .
Following randomization , all patients received TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly .
The dose was increased every 4 weeks to the next higher dose until the patients reached the assigned study dose ( 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , or 4 . 5 mg ) .
Patients were to remain on the assigned study dose for the duration of the study .
Patients had a mean age of 57 . 1 years ; a mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 7 . 6 years ; 51 . 2 % were male ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 85 . 8 % , 4 . 5 % , and 2 . 4 % , respectively ; and 27 . 6 % of the study population was in the US .
At 36 weeks , treatment with TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg resulted in a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c and in body weight compared to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg ( Table 6 and Figure 4 ) .
Table 6 .
Results at Week 36 of TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Compared to 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg as Add - On to MetforminaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c a Intent - to - treat population .
At Week 36 , primary efficacy was missing for 7 % , 7 % , and 6 % of individuals treated with TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , TRULICITY 3 mg , and TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg , respectively .
b Least - squares mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
Missing data were imputed using multiple imputation .
c Patients with missing HbA1c data at Week 36 were considered as not achieving HbA1c target .
^ p = 0 . 0001 for superiority compared to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , overall type I error controlled .
^ ^ p < 0 . 0001 for superiority compared to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , overall type I error controlled .
36 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg TRULICITY 3 mg TRULICITY 4 . 5 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) 612 616 614 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 6 8 . 6 8 . 6 Change from baselineb - 1 . 5 - 1 . 6 - 1 . 8 Difference from 1 . 5 mgb ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 2 , 0 . 0 ) - 0 . 2 ( - 0 . 4 , - 0 . 1 ) ^ Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % c 50 56 62 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 185 184 183 Change from baselineb - 45 - 46 - 51 Difference from 1 . 5 mgb ( 95 % CI ) - 2 ( - 7 , 3 ) - 6 ( - 11 , - 2 ) Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 95 . 5 96 . 3 95 . 4 Change from baselineb - 3 . 0 - 3 . 8 - 4 . 6 Difference from 1 . 5 mgb ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 9 ( - 1 . 4 , - 0 . 4 ) - 1 . 6 ( - 2 . 2 , - 1 . 1 ) ^ ^ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Add - on to Sulfonylurea In this 24 - week placebo - controlled , double - blind study , 299 patients were randomized to and received placebo or once weekly TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , both as add - on to glimepiride .
Patients had a mean age of 58 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 8 years ; 44 % were male ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 83 % , 4 % , and 2 % , respectively ; and 24 % of the study population were in the US .
At 24 weeks , treatment with once weekly TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg resulted in a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c compared to placebo ( Table 7 ) .
Table 7 : Results at Week 24 of TRULICITY Compared to Placebo as Add - On to GlimepirideaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a Intent - to - treat population .
Data post - onset of rescue therapy are treated as missing .
At Week 24 primary efficacy was missing for 10 % and 12 % of individuals randomized to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and placebo , respectively .
b Least - squares mean from ANCOVA adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
Placebo multiple imputation , with respect to the baseline values , was used to model a wash - out of the treatment effect for subjects having missing Week 24 data .
c Patients with missing HbA1c data at Week 24 were considered as non - responders .
†† p < 0 . 001 for superiority of TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg compared to placebo , overall type I error controlled .
24 - Week Primary Time Point Placebo TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) 60 239 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 4 8 . 4 Change from baselineb - 0 . 3 - 1 . 3 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 1 . 1 ( - 1 . 4 , - 0 . 7 ) †† Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % c 17 50 †† Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 175 178 Change from baselineb 2 - 28 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 30 ( - 44 , - 15 ) †† Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 89 . 5 84 . 5 Change from baselineb - 0 . 2 - 0 . 5 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 4 ( - 1 . 2 , 0 . 5 ) Add - on to Metformin and Thiazolidinedione In this placebo - controlled study with primary endpoint at 26 weeks , 976 patients were randomized to and received placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or exenatide 10 mcg BID , all as add - on to maximally tolerated doses of metformin ( ≥ 1500 mg per day ) and pioglitazone ( up to 45 mg per day ) .
Exenatide treatment group assignment was open - label while the treatment assignments to placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg were blinded .
After 26 weeks , patients in the placebo treatment group were randomized to either TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly or TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly to maintain study blind .
Randomization occurred after a 12 - week lead - in period ; during the initial 4 weeks of the lead - in period , patients were titrated to maximally tolerated doses of metformin and pioglitazone ; this was followed by an 8 - week glycemic stabilization period prior to randomization .
Patients randomized to exenatide started at a dose of 5 mcg BID for 4 weeks and then were escalated to 10 mcg BID .
Patients had a mean age of 56 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 9 years ; 58 % were male ; race : White , Black and Asian were 74 % , 8 % and 3 % , respectively ; and 81 % of the study population were in the US .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly resulted in a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c compared to placebo ( at 26 weeks ) and compared to exenatide at 26 weeks ( Table 8 and Figure 5 ) .
Over the 52 - week study period , the percentage of patients who required glycemic rescue was 8 . 9 % in the TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly + metformin and pioglitazone treatment group , 3 . 2 % in the TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly + metformin and pioglitazone treatment group , and 8 . 7 % in the exenatide BID + metformin and pioglitazone treatment group .
Table 8 : Results at Week 26 of TRULICITY Compared to Placebo and Exenatide , All as Add - On to Metformin and ThiazolidinedioneaAbbreviations : BID = twice daily ; HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a Intent - to - treat population .
Last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data .
Data post - onset of rescue therapy are treated as missing .
At Week 26 , primary efficacy was missing for 23 % , 10 % , 7 % and 12 % of individuals randomized to placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and exenatide , respectively .
b Least - squares ( LS ) mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
‡ Subjects included in the analysis are a subset of the ITT population that had at least one post - baseline assessment .
The primary analysis included 119 , 269 , 271 and 266 individuals randomized to placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and exenatide , respectively .
‡‡ Multiplicity adjusted 1 - sided p - value < 0 . 001 , for superiority of TRULICITY compared to placebo , assessed only for HbA1c .
†† Multiplicity adjusted 1 - sided p - value < 0 . 001 , for superiority of TRULICITY compared to exenatide , assessed only for HbA1c .
** p < 0 . 001 TRULICITY compared to placebo , assessed only for HbA1c < 7 . 0 % .
## p < 0 . 001 TRULICITY compared to exenatide , assessed only for HbA1c < 7 . 0 % .
26 - Week Primary Time Point Placebo TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Exenatide 10 mcg BID Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) ‡ 141 280 279 276 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 1 8 . 1 8 . 1 8 . 1 Change from baselineb - 0 . 5 - 1 . 3 - 1 . 5 - 1 . 0 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - - 0 . 8 ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 7 ) ‡‡ - 1 . 1 ( - 1 . 2 , - 0 . 9 ) ‡‡ - Difference from exenatideb ( 95 % CI ) - - 0 . 3 ( - 0 . 4 , - 0 . 2 ) †† - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 4 ) †† - Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % 43 66 ** , ## 78 ** , ## 52 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 166 159 162 164 Change from baselineb - 5 - 34 - 42 - 24 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - - 30 ( - 36 , - 23 ) - 38 ( - 45 , - 31 ) - Difference from exenatideb ( 95 % CI ) - - 10 ( - 15 , - 5 ) - 18 ( - 24 , - 13 ) - Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 94 . 1 95 . 5 96 . 2 97 . 4 Change from baselineb 1 . 2 0 . 2 - 1 . 3 - 1 . 1 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - - 1 . 0 ( - 1 . 8 , - 0 . 3 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 3 . 3 , - 1 . 8 ) - Difference from exenatideb ( 95 % CI ) - 1 . 3 ( 0 . 6 , 1 . 9 ) - 0 . 2 ( - 0 . 9 , 0 . 4 ) - [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Combination Therapy with SGLT2i , with or without Metformin In this 24 - week placebo - controlled , double - blind study , 423 patients were randomized to and received TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , or placebo , as add - on to sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 inhibitor ( SGLT2i ) therapy ( 96 % with and 4 % without metformin ) .
Trulicity was administered once weekly , and SGLT2i was administered according to the local country label .
Patients had a mean age of 57 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 9 . 4 years ; 50 % were male ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 89 % , 3 % , and 0 . 2 % , respectively ; and 21 % of the study population was in the US .
At 24 weeks , treatment with once weekly TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg resulted in a statistically significant reduction from baseline in HbA1c compared to placebo ( Table 9 ) .
The mean baseline body weight was 90 . 5 , 91 . 1 , and 92 . 9 kg in the placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg groups , respectively .
The mean changes from baseline in body weight at Week 24 were - 2 . 0 , - 2 . 5 , and - 2 . 9 kg for placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
The difference from placebo ( 95 % CI ) was - 0 . 9 kg ( - 1 . 7 , - 0 . 1 ) for TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg .
Table 9 : Results at Week 24 of TRULICITY as Add - on to SGLT2iaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c ; SGLT2i = sodium - glucose co - transporter - 2 inhibitors .
a Intent - to - treat population .
At Week 24 , primary efficacy was missing for 3 % , 4 % , and 6 % of individuals treated with placebo , TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
b Least - squares mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
Placebo multiple imputation , using baseline and 24 - week values from the placebo arm , was applied to model a washout of the treatment effect for patients missing 24 - week values ( HbA1c , fasting serum glucose , and body weight ) .
c Patients with missing HbA1c data at Week 24 were considered as non - responders .
†† p < 0 . 001 for superiority of TRULICITY compared to placebo , overall type I error controlled .
24 - Week Primary Time Point Placebo TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) 140 141 142 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 1 8 . 1 8 . 0 Change from baselineb - 0 . 6 - 1 . 2 - 1 . 3 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - - 0 . 7 ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 5 ) †† - 0 . 8 ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 6 ) †† Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % c 31 59 †† 67 †† Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 153 162 161 Change from baselineb - 6 - 25 - 30 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - - 19 ( - 25 , - 13 ) - 24 ( - 30 , - 18 ) †† Add - on to Metformin and Sulfonylurea In this open - label comparator study ( double - blind with respect to TRULICITY dose assignment ) with primary endpoint at 52 weeks , 807 patients were randomized to and received TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or insulin glargine once daily , all as add - on to maximally tolerated doses of metformin and glimepiride .
Randomization occurred after a 10 - week lead - in period ; during the initial 2 weeks of the lead - in period , patients were titrated to maximally tolerated doses of metformin and glimepiride .
This was followed by a 6 - to 8 - week glycemic stabilization period prior to randomization .
Patients randomized to insulin glargine were started on a dose of 10 units once daily .
Insulin glargine dose adjustments occurred twice weekly for the first 4 weeks of treatment based on self - measured fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , followed by once weekly titration through Week 8 of study treatment , utilizing an algorithm that targeted a fasting plasma glucose of < 100 mg / dL .
Only 24 % of patients were titrated to goal at the 52 - week primary endpoint .
The dose of glimepiride could be reduced or discontinued after randomization ( at the discretion of the investigator ) in the event of persistent hypoglycemia .
The dose of glimepiride was reduced or discontinued in 28 % , 32 % , and 29 % of patients randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and glargine .
Patients had a mean age of 57 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 9 years ; 51 % were male ; race : White , Black and Asian were 71 % , 1 % and 17 % , respectively ; and 0 % of the study population were in the US .
Treatment with TRULICITY once weekly resulted in a reduction in HbA1c from baseline at 52 weeks when used in combination with metformin and sulfonylurea ( Table 10 ) .
The difference in observed effect size between TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , and glargine in this trial excluded the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 4 % .
Table 10 : Results at Week 52 of TRULICITY Compared to Insulin Glargine , Both as Add - on to Metformin and SulfonylureaaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a Intent - to - treat population .
Last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data .
Data post - onset of rescue therapy are treated as missing .
At Week 52 , primary efficacy was missing for 17 % , 13 % and 12 % of individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and glargine , respectively .
b Least - squares ( LS ) mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
‡ Subjects included in the analysis are a subset of the ITT population that had at least one post - baseline assessment .
The primary analysis included 267 , 263 and 259 individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and glargine , respectively .
52 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Insulin Glargine Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) ‡ 272 273 262 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 1 8 . 2 8 . 1 Change from baselineb - 0 . 8 - 1 . 1 - 0 . 6 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 161 165 163 Change from baselineb - 16 - 27 - 32 Difference from insulin glargineb ( 95 % CI ) 16 ( 9 , 23 ) 5 ( - 2 , 12 ) - Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 86 . 4 85 . 2 87 . 6 Change from baselineb - 1 . 3 - 1 . 9 1 . 4 Difference from insulinb ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 8 ( - 3 . 4 , - 2 . 2 ) - 3 . 3 ( - 3 . 9 , - 2 . 7 ) - Combination Therapy with Basal Insulin , with or without Metformin In this 28 - week placebo - controlled , double - blind study , 300 patients were randomized to placebo or once weekly TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , as add - on to titrated basal insulin glargine ( with or without metformin ) .
Patients had a mean age of 60 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 13 years ; 58 % were male ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 94 % , 4 % , and 0 . 3 % , respectively ; and 20 % of the study population was in the US .
The mean starting dose of insulin glargine was 37 units / day for patients receiving placebo and 41 units / day for patients receiving TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg .
At randomization , the initial insulin glargine dose in patients with HbA1c < 8 . 0 % was reduced by 20 % .
At 28 weeks , treatment with once weekly TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg resulted in a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c compared to placebo ( Table 11 ) .
Table 11 : Results at Week 28 of TRULICITY Compared to Placebo as Add - On to Basal InsulinaAbbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c .
a Intent - to - treat population .
At Week 28 , primary efficacy was missing for 12 % and 8 % of individuals randomized to placebo and TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , respectively .
b Least - squares mean from ANCOVA adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
Placebo multiple imputation , with respect to baseline values , was used to model a wash - out of the treatment effect for subjects having missing Week 28 data .
c Patients with missing HbA1c data at Week 28 were considered as non - responders .
†† p < 0 . 001 for superiority of TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg compared to placebo , overall type I error controlled .
† p ≤ 0 . 005 for superiority of TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg compared to placebo , overall type I error controlled .
28 - Week Primary Time Point Placebo TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) 150 150 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 3 8 . 4 Change from baselineb - 0 . 7 - 1 . 4 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 7 ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 5 ) †† Percentage of patients HbA1c < 7 . 0 % c 33 67 †† Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 156 157 Change from baselineb - 30 - 44 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 14 ( - 23 , - 4 ) † Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 92 . 6 93 . 3 Change from baselineb 0 . 8 - 1 . 3 Difference from placebob ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 1 ( - 2 . 9 , - 1 . 4 ) †† Combination Therapy with Prandial Insulin , with or without Metformin In this open - label comparator study ( double - blind with respect to TRULICITY dose assignment ) with primary endpoint at 26 weeks , 884 patients on 1 or 2 insulin injections per day were enrolled .
Randomization occurred after a 9 - week lead - in period ; during the initial 2 weeks of the lead - in period , patients continued their pre - study insulin regimen but could be initiated and / or up - titrated on metformin , based on investigator discretion ; this was followed by a 7 - week glycemic stabilization period prior to randomization .
At randomization , patients discontinued their pre - study insulin regimen and were randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or insulin glargine once daily , all in combination with prandial insulin lispro 3 times daily , with or without metformin .
Insulin lispro was titrated in each arm based on preprandial and bedtime glucose , and insulin glargine was titrated to a fasting plasma glucose goal of < 100 mg / dL .
Only 36 % of patients randomized to glargine were titrated to the fasting glucose goal at the 26 - week primary timepoint .
Patients had a mean age of 59 years ; mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 13 years ; 54 % were male ; race : White , Black and Asian were 79 % , 10 % and 4 % , respectively ; and 33 % of the study population were in the US .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly resulted in a reduction in HbA1c from baseline .
The difference in observed effect size between TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , and glargine in this trial excluded the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 4 % ( Table 12 ) .
Table 12 : Results at Week 26 of TRULICITY Compared to Insulin Glargine , Both in Combination with Insulin LisproaAbbreviation : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c a Intent - to - treat population .
Last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) was used to impute missing data .
Data post - onset of rescue therapy are treated as missing .
At Week 26 , primary efficacy was missing for 14 % , 15 % , and 14 % of individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg and glargine , respectively .
b Least - squares ( LS ) mean adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
‡ Subjects included in the analysis are a subset of the ITT population that had at least one post - baseline assessment .
The primary analysis included 275 , 273 and 276 individuals randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and glargine , respectively .
26 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Insulin Glargine Intent - to - Treat ( ITT ) Population ( N ) ‡ 293 295 296 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 4 8 . 5 8 . 5 Change from baselineb - 1 . 6 - 1 . 6 - 1 . 4 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 150 157 154 Change from baselineb 4 - 5 - 28 Difference from insulin glargineb ( 95 % CI ) 32 ( 24 , 41 ) 24 ( 15 , 32 ) - Body Weight ( kg ) ( Mean ) Baseline 91 . 7 91 . 0 90 . 8 Change from baselineb 0 . 2 - 0 . 9 2 . 3 Difference from insulin glargineb ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 2 ( - 2 . 8 , - 1 . 5 ) - 3 . 2 ( - 3 . 8 , - 2 . 6 ) - Moderate to Severe Chronic Kidney Disease In this open - label comparator study ( double - blind with respect to TRULICITY dose assignment ) with primary endpoint at 26 weeks , a total of 576 patients with type 2 diabetes were randomized and treated to compare TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg with insulin glargine ( NCT01621178 ) .
Patients on insulin and other antidiabetic therapy ( e . g . , oral antidiabetic drugs , pramlintide ) had non - insulin therapies discontinued and had their insulin dose adjusted for 12 weeks prior to randomization .
Patients on insulin therapy alone maintained a stable insulin dose for 3 weeks prior to randomization .
At randomization , patients discontinued their pre - study insulin regimen and patients were randomized to TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg once weekly , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg once weekly , or insulin glargine once daily , all in combination with prandial insulin lispro .
For patients randomized to insulin glargine , the initial insulin glargine dose was based on the basal insulin dose prior to randomization .
Insulin glargine was allowed to be titrated with a fasting plasma glucose goal of ≤ 150 mg / dL .
Insulin lispro was allowed to be titrated with a preprandial and bedtime glucose goal of ≤ 180 mg / dL .
Patients had a mean age of 65 years ; a mean duration of type 2 diabetes of 18 years ; 52 % were male ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 69 % , 16 % , and 3 % , respectively ; and 32 % of the study population were in the US .
At baseline , overall mean eGFR was 38 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , 30 % of patients had eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , and 45 % of patients had macroalbuminuria .
Patients on over 70 units / day of basal insulin were excluded from the study .
Treatment with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg once weekly resulted in a reduction in HbA1c at 26 - weeks from baseline .
The difference in observed effect size between TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg , respectively , and glargine in this trial excluded the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 4 % .
Mean fasting plasma glucose increased in the TRULICITY arms ( Table 13 ) .
Mean baseline body weight was 90 . 9 kg , 88 . 1 kg , and 88 . 2 kg in the TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and insulin glargine arms , respectively .
The mean changes from baseline at Week 26 were - 1 . 1 , - 2 , and 1 . 9 kg in the TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and insulin glargine arms , respectively .
Table 13 : Results at Week 26 of TRULICITY Compared to Insulin Glargine , Both in Combination with Insulin Lispro , in Patients with Moderate to Severe Chronic Kidney DiseaseaAbbreviation : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c a Intent - to - treat population ( all randomized and treated subjects ) was used in the analysis regardless of discontinuation of study drug or initiation of rescue therapy .
At Week 26 , primary efficacy was missing for 12 % , 15 % , and 9 % of individuals randomized to and treated with TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg , TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg , and insulin glargine , respectively .
Missing data were imputed using multiple imputation within treatment group .
b Least - squares ( LS ) mean from ANCOVA pattern mixture model adjusted for baseline value and other stratification factors .
26 - Week Primary Time Point TRULICITY 0 . 75 mg TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg Insulin Glargine Intent - to - Treat Population ( N ) 190 192 194 HbA1c ( % ) ( Mean ) Baseline 8 . 6 8 . 6 8 . 6 Change from baselineb - 0 . 9 - 1 . 0 - 1 . 0 Difference from insulin glargineb ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 2 , 0 . 3 ) - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 2 ) Percentage of patients HbA1c < 8 . 0 % 73 75 74 Fasting Serum Glucose ( mg / dL ) ( Mean ) Baseline 167 161 170 Change from baselineb 6 14 - 23 Difference from insulin glargineb ( 95 % CI ) 30 ( 16 , 43 ) 37 ( 24 , 50 ) 14 . 2 Cardiovascular Outcomes Trial in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Cardiovascular Disease or Multiple Cardiovascular Risk Factors The REWIND trial ( NCT01394952 ) was a multi - national , multi - center , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial .
In this study , 9901 adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular ( CV ) disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors were randomized to TRULICITY 1 . 5 mg or placebo both added to standard of care .
The median follow - up duration was 5 . 4 years .
The primary endpoint was the time to the first occurrence of a composite 3 - component Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events ( MACE ) outcome , which included CV death , non - fatal myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and non - fatal stroke .
Patients eligible to enter the trial were 50 years of age or older who had type 2 diabetes mellitus , had an HbA1c value ≤ 9 . 5 % with no lower limit at screening , and had either established CV disease , or did not have established CV disease but had multiple CV risk factors .
Patients who were confirmed to have established CV disease ( 31 . 5 % of randomized patients ) had a history of at least one of the following : MI ( 16 . 2 % ) ; myocardial ischemia by a stress test or with cardiac imaging ( 9 . 3 % ) ; ischemic stroke ( 5 . 3 % ) ; coronary , carotid , or peripheral artery revascularization ( 18 . 0 % ) ; unstable angina ( 5 . 9 % ) ; or hospitalization for unstable angina with at least one of the following : ECG changes , myocardial ischemia on imaging , or a need for percutaneous coronary intervention ( 12 . 0 % ) .
Patients confirmed to be without established CV disease , but with multiple CV risk factors , comprised 62 . 8 % of the randomized trial population .
At baseline , demographic and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment groups .
Patients had a mean age of 66 years ; 46 % were female ; race : White , Black , and Asian were 76 % , 7 % , and 4 % , respectively .
The median baseline HbA1c was 7 . 2 % .
The mean duration of type 2 diabetes was 10 . 5 years and the mean BMI was 32 . 3 kg / m2 .
At baseline , 50 . 5 % of patients had mild renal impairment ( eGFR ≥ 60 but < 90 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , 21 . 6 % had moderate renal impairment ( eGFR ≥ 30 but < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , and 1 . 1 % of patients had severe renal impairment ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) out of 9713 patients whose eGFR were available .
At baseline , 94 . 7 % of patients were taking antidiabetic medication , with 10 . 5 % of patients taking three or more antidiabetic drugs .
The most common background antidiabetic drugs used at baseline were metformin ( 81 . 2 % ) , sulfonylurea ( 46 . 0 % ) , and insulin ( 23 . 9 % ) .
At baseline , CV disease and risk factors were managed with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers ( 81 . 5 % ) , beta blockers ( 45 . 6 % ) , calcium channel blockers ( 34 . 4 % ) , diuretics ( 46 . 5 % ) , statin therapy ( 66 . 1 % ) , antithrombotic agents ( 58 . 7 % ) , and aspirin ( 51 . 7 % ) .
During the trial , investigators were to modify anti - diabetic and cardiovascular medications to achieve local standard of care treatment targets with respect to blood glucose , lipids , and blood pressure , and manage patients recovering from an acute coronary syndrome or stroke event per local treatment guidelines .
For the primary analysis , a Cox proportional hazards model was used to test for superiority .
Type I error was controlled across multiple tests .
TRULICITY significantly reduced the risk of first occurrence of primary composite endpoint of CV death , non - fatal MI , or non - fatal stroke ( HR : 0 . 88 , 95 % CI 0 . 79 , 0 . 99 ) .
Refer to Figure 6 and Table 14 .
Vital status was available for 99 . 7 % of subjects in the trial .
A total of 1128 deaths were recorded during the REWIND trial .
A majority of the deaths in the trial were adjudicated as CV deaths , and non - CV deaths were comparable between the treatment groups ( 4 . 4 % in patients treated with TRULICITY and 5 . 0 % in patients treated with placebo ) .
There were 536 all - cause deaths ( 10 . 8 % ) in the dulaglutide group compared to 592 deaths ( 12 . 0 % ) in the placebo group .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 14 : Treatment Effect for MACE and the Individual Components in the REWIND Trial , Median Study Observation Time of 5 . 4 yearsaa All randomized patients .
b Cox - proportional hazards model with treatment as a factor .
Type I error was controlled for the primary and secondary endpoints .
c p = 0 . 026 for superiority ( 2 - sided ) .
d Number and percentage of patients with events .
e Results for components of MACE , fatal and non - fatal stroke , and fatal and non - fatal MI are listed descriptively for supportive purposes .
No statistical significance should be inferred since these CIs are not adjusted for multiplicity .
Time to First Occurrence of : TRULICITY N = 4949 Placebo N = 4952 Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) b Composite of non - fatal myocardial infarction , non - fatal stroke , cardiovascular death ( MACE ) d 594 ( 12 . 0 % ) 663 ( 13 . 4 % ) 0 . 88 ( 0 . 79 , 0 . 99 ) c Cardiovascular deathd , e 317 ( 6 . 4 % ) 346 ( 7 . 0 % ) 0 . 91 ( 0 . 78 , 1 . 06 ) Non - fatal myocardial infarctiond , e 205 ( 4 . 1 % ) 212 ( 4 . 3 % ) 0 . 96 ( 0 . 79 , 1 . 16 ) Non - fatal stroked , e 135 ( 2 . 7 % ) 175 ( 3 . 5 % ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 61 , 0 . 95 ) Fatal or non - fatal myocardial infarctiond , e 223 ( 4 . 5 % ) 231 ( 4 . 7 % ) 0 . 96 ( 0 . 79 , 1 . 15 ) Fatal or non - fatal stroked , e 158 ( 3 . 2 % ) 205 ( 4 . 1 % ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 62 , 0 . 94 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 5467 NDC : 50090 - 5467 - 0 . 5 mL in a SYRINGE / 4 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) • Inform patients that TRULICITY causes benign and malignant thyroid C - cell tumors in rats and that the human relevance of this finding has not been determined .
Counsel patients to report symptoms of thyroid tumors ( e . g . , a lump in the neck , persistent hoarseness , dysphagia , or dyspnea ) to their physician [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that persistent severe abdominal pain , that may radiate to the back and which may ( or may not ) be accompanied by vomiting , is the hallmark symptom of acute pancreatitis .
Instruct patients to discontinue TRULICITY promptly , and to contact their physician , if persistent severe abdominal pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Inform patients that the risk of hypoglycemia may be increased when TRULICITY is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( such as a sulfonylurea ) or insulin .
Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise patients of the potential risk of dehydration due to gastrointestinal adverse reactions and take precautions to avoid fluid depletion .
Inform patients treated with TRULICITY of the potential risk for worsening renal function and explain the associated signs and symptoms of renal impairment , as well as the possibility of dialysis as a medical intervention if renal failure occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Inform patients that serious hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with use of TRULICITY .
Advise patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and instruct them to stop taking TRULICITY and seek medical advice promptly if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Inform patients to contact their physician if changes in vision are experienced during treatment with TRULICITY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• Inform patients of the potential risk for cholelithiasis or cholecystitis .
Instruct patients to contact their physician if cholelithiasis or cholecystitis is suspected for appropriate clinical follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or intend to become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients if a dose is missed and there are at least 3 days ( 72 hours ) until the next scheduled dose , they should administer it as soon as possible and then resume their usual once weekly dosing schedule .
If a dose is missed and the next regularly scheduled dose is due in 1 or 2 days , inform the patient to not administer the missed dose and instead resume TRULICITY with the next regularly scheduled dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients treated with TRULICITY of the potential risk of gastrointestinal side effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 2014 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
TRU - 0016 - USPI - 20220610 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2022 TRU - 0008 - MG - 20220610 Medication Guide TRULICITY ® ( TRU - li - si - tee ) ( dulaglutide ) injection , for subcutaneous use Read this Medication Guide before you start using TRULICITY and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about TRULICITY ?
TRULICITY may cause serious side effects , including : • Possible thyroid tumors , including cancer .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get a lump or swelling in your neck , hoarseness , trouble swallowing , or shortness of breath .
These may be symptoms of thyroid cancer .
In studies with rats or mice , TRULICITY and medicines that work like TRULICITY caused thyroid tumors , including thyroid cancer .
It is not known if TRULICITY will cause thyroid tumors or a type of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) in people .
• Do not use TRULICITY if you or any of your family have ever had a type of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) , or if you have an endocrine system condition called Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( MEN 2 ) .
What is TRULICITY ?
• TRULICITY is an injectable prescription medicine that is used : • along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar ( glucose ) in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
• to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events such as death , heart attack , or stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with known heart disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors .
• It is not known if TRULICITY can be used in people who have had pancreatitis .
• TRULICITY is not for use in people with type 1 diabetes .
• TRULICITY is not recommended for use in people with severe stomach or intestinal problems .
• It is not known if TRULICITY is safe and effective for use in children .
TRULICITY should not be used in children under 18 years of age .
Do not use TRULICITY if : • you or any of your family have ever had a type of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) or if you have an endocrine system condition called Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 ( MEN 2 ) .
• you have had a serious allergic reaction to dulaglutide or any of the ingredients in TRULICITY .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in TRULICITY .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction include : • swelling of your face , lips , tongue or throat • problems breathing or swallowing • severe rash or itching • fainting or feeling dizzy • very rapid heartbeat Before using TRULICITY , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had problems with your pancreas , kidneys or liver .
• have severe problems with your stomach , such as slowed emptying of your stomach ( gastroparesis ) or problems with digesting food .
• have a history of diabetic retinopathy .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if TRULICITY will harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while using TRULICITY .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TRULICITY passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should breastfeed while taking TRULICITY .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
TRULICITY may affect the way some medicines work , and some medicines may affect the way TRULICITY works .
Before using TRULICITY , tell your healthcare provider if you are taking other medicines to treat diabetes including insulin or sulfonylureas which could increase your risk of low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use TRULICITY ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that comes with TRULICITY .
• Use TRULICITY exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• TRULICITY is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach ( abdomen ) , thigh , or upper arm .
• Use TRULICITY 1 time each week on the same day each week at any time of the day .
• You may change the day of the week as long as your last dose was given 3 or more days before .
• If you miss a dose of TRULICITY , take the missed dose as soon as possible if there are at least 3 days ( 72 hours ) until your next scheduled dose .
If there are less than 3 days remaining , skip the missed dose and take your next dose on the regularly scheduled day .
Do not take 2 doses of TRULICITY within 3 days of each other .
• TRULICITY may be taken with or without food .
• Do not mix insulin and TRULICITY together in the same injection .
• You may give an injection of TRULICITY and insulin in the same body area ( such as , your stomach area ) , but not right next to each other .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site with each weekly injection .
Do not use the same site for each injection .
• If you take too much TRULICITY , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of TRULICITY ?
TRULICITY may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about TRULICITY ? ”
• Inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
Stop using TRULICITY and call your healthcare provider right away if you have severe pain in your stomach area ( abdomen ) that will not go away , with or without vomiting .
You may feel the pain from your abdomen to your back .
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Your risk for getting low blood sugar may be higher if you use TRULICITY with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin .
• Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • dizziness or light - headedness • sweating • confusion or drowsiness • headache • blurred vision • slurred speech • shakiness • fast heartbeat • anxiety , irritability , or mood changes • hunger • weakness • feeling jittery • Serious allergic reactions .
Stop using TRULICITY and get medical help right away if you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction including : • swelling of your face , lips , tongue or throat • problems breathing or swallowing • severe rash or itching • fainting or feeling dizzy • very rapid heartbeat • Kidney problems ( kidney failure ) .
In people who have kidney problems , diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting may cause a loss of fluids ( dehydration ) which may cause kidney problems to get worse .
• Severe stomach problems .
Other medicines like TRULICITY may cause severe stomach problems .
It is not known if TRULICITY causes or worsens stomach problems .
• Changes in vision .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have changes in vision during treatment with TRULICITY .
• Gallbladder problems .
Gallbladder problems have happened in some people who take TRULICITY .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of gallbladder problems , which may include : • pain in your upper stomach ( abdomen ) • diarrhea • fever • yellowing of skin or eyes ( jaundice ) • clay - colored stools The most common side effects of TRULICITY may include : • nausea • diarrhea • vomiting • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • decreased appetite Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of TRULICITY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of TRULICITY .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use TRULICITY for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TRULICITY to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about TRULICITY .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TRULICITY that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TRULICITY ?
Active ingredient : dulaglutide Inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , mannitol , polysorbate 80 , trisodium citrate dihydrate , in water for injection TRULICITY ® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA , US License Number 1891 www . TRULICITY . com .
Copyright © 2014 , 2022 Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . TRULICITY . com or call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 .
Instructions for Use TRULICITY ® ( TRU - li - si - tee ) ( dulaglutide ) injection , for subcutaneous use 0 . 75 mg / 0 . 5 mL Single - Dose Pen use 1 time each week ( once weekly ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Information About TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen Please read this Instructions for Use and the Medication Guide carefully and completely before using your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to inject TRULICITY the right way .
• TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen ( Pen ) is a disposable , prefilled medicine delivery device .
Each Pen contains 1 dose of TRULICITY ( 0 . 75 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) .
Each Pen should only be used 1 time .
• TRULICITY is used 1 time each week .
You may want to mark your calendar to remind you when to take your next dose .
Before You Get Started [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove Check Inspect Prepare Remove the Pen from the refrigerator .
Leave the Base Cap on until you are ready to inject .
Check the Pen label to make sure you have the right medicine and it has not expired .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Check the Pen to make sure that it is not damaged and inspect the medicine to make sure it is not cloudy , discolored or has particles in it .
Wash your hands .
Choose Your Injection Site • Your healthcare provider can help you choose the injection site that is best for you .
• You may inject the medicine into your stomach ( abdomen ) or thigh .
• Another person may give you the injection in your upper arm .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site each week .
You may use the same area of your body , but be sure to choose a different injection site in that area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 Uncap the Pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the Pen is locked .
• Pull the Base Cap straight off and throw it away in your household trash .
Do not put the Base Cap back on — this could damage the needle .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 Place and Unlock • Place the Clear Base flat and firmly against your skin at the injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Unlock by turning the Lock Ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 Press and Hold • Press and hold the green Injection Button .
You will hear a loud click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue holding the Clear Base firmly against your skin until you hear a second click .
This happens when the needle starts retracting in about 5 - 10 seconds .
• Remove the Pen from your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] You will know your injection is complete when the gray plunger is visible .
Important Information Disposal of Pen Storage and Handling Commonly Asked Questions Other Information Where to Learn More Disposing of Your Used Pens • Put your used Pens in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) Pens in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling • Store your Pen in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store your Pen at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to a total of 14 days .
• Do not freeze your Pen .
If the Pen has been frozen , throw the Pen away and use a new Pen .
• Storage of your Pen in the original carton is recommended .
Protect your Pen from direct heat and light .
• The Pen has glass parts .
Handle it carefully .
If you drop it on a hard surface , do not use it .
Use a new Pen for your injection .
• Keep your TRULICITY Pen and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Commonly Asked Questions What if I see air bubbles in my Pen ?
Air bubbles are normal .
What if I unlock the Pen and press the green Injection Button before pulling off the Base Cap ?
Do not remove the Base Cap .
Throw away the Pen and get a new Pen .
What if there is a drop of liquid on the tip of the needle when I remove the Base Cap ?
A drop of liquid on the tip of the needle is normal .
Do I need to hold the Injection Button down until the injection is complete ?
This is not necessary , but it may help you keep the Pen steady and firm against your skin .
I heard more than 2 clicks during my injection — 2 louder clicks and 1 soft one .
Did I get my complete injection ?
Some patients may hear a soft click right before the second loud click .
That is the normal operation of the Pen .
Do not remove the Pen from your skin until you hear the second louder click .
What if there is a drop of liquid or blood on my skin after my injection ?
This is normal .
I am not sure if my Pen worked the right way .
Check to see if you have received your dose .
Your dose was delivered the right way if the gray plunger is visible ( see step 3 ) .
Also contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) for further instructions .
Until then , store your Pen safely to avoid an accidental needle stick .
Other Information • If you have vision problems , do not use your Pen without help from a person trained to use the TRULICITY Pen .
Where to Learn More • If you have any questions or problems with your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider .
• For more information about TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , visit our website at : www . trulicity . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SCAN THIS CODE TO LAUNCH www . trulicity . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 TRULICITY is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Copyright © 2014 , 2018 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
The TRULICITY Pen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 : 2012 and 11608 - 5 : 2012 .
Revised : 09 / 2018 TRULOAI - 0003 - IFU - 20180921 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use TRULICITY ® ( TRU - li - si - tee ) ( dulaglutide ) injection , for subcutaneous use 1 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL Single - Dose Pen use 1 time each week ( once weekly ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Information About TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen Please read this Instructions for Use and the Medication Guide carefully and completely before using your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to inject TRULICITY the right way .
• TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen ( Pen ) is a disposable , prefilled medicine delivery device .
Each Pen contains 1 dose of TRULICITY ( 1 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) .
Each Pen should only be used 1 time .
• TRULICITY is used 1 time each week .
You may want to mark your calendar to remind you when to take your next dose .
Before You Get Started [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove Check Inspect Prepare Remove the Pen from the refrigerator .
Leave the Base Cap on until you are ready to inject .
Check the Pen label to make sure you have the right medicine and it has not expired .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Check the Pen to make sure that it is not damaged and inspect the medicine to make sure it is not cloudy , discolored or has particles in it .
Wash your hands .
Choose Your Injection Site • Your healthcare provider can help you choose the injection site that is best for you .
• You may inject the medicine into your stomach ( abdomen ) or thigh .
• Another person may give you the injection in your upper arm .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site each week .
You may use the same area of your body , but be sure to choose a different injection site in that area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 Uncap the Pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the Pen is locked .
• Pull the Base Cap straight off and throw it away in your household trash .
Do not put the Base Cap back on — this could damage the needle .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 Place and Unlock • Place the Clear Base flat and firmly against your skin at the injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Unlock by turning the Lock Ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 Press and Hold • Press and hold the green Injection Button .
You will hear a loud click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue holding the Clear Base firmly against your skin until you hear a second click .
This happens when the needle starts retracting in about 5 - 10 seconds .
• Remove the Pen from your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] You will know your injection is complete when the gray plunger is visible .
Important Information Disposal of Pen Storage and Handling Commonly Asked Questions Other Information Where to Learn More Disposing of Your Used Pens • Put your used Pens in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) Pens in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling • Store your Pen in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store your Pen at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to a total of 14 days .
• Do not freeze your Pen .
If the Pen has been frozen , throw the Pen away and use a new Pen .
• Storage of your Pen in the original carton is recommended .
Protect your Pen from direct heat and light .
• The Pen has glass parts .
Handle it carefully .
If you drop it on a hard surface , do not use it .
Use a new Pen for your injection .
• Keep your TRULICITY Pen and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Commonly Asked Questions What if I see air bubbles in my Pen ?
Air bubbles are normal .
What if I unlock the Pen and press the green Injection Button before pulling off the Base Cap ?
Do not remove the Base Cap .
Throw away the Pen and get a new Pen .
What if there is a drop of liquid on the tip of the needle when I remove the Base Cap ?
A drop of liquid on the tip of the needle is normal .
Do I need to hold the Injection Button down until the injection is complete ?
This is not necessary , but it may help you keep the Pen steady and firm against your skin .
I heard more than 2 clicks during my injection — 2 louder clicks and 1 soft one .
Did I get my complete injection ?
Some patients may hear a soft click right before the second loud click .
That is the normal operation of the Pen .
Do not remove the Pen from your skin until you hear the second louder click .
What if there is a drop of liquid or blood on my skin after my injection ?
This is normal .
I am not sure if my Pen worked the right way .
Check to see if you have received your dose .
Your dose was delivered the right way if the gray plunger is visible ( see step 3 ) .
Also contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) for further instructions .
Until then , store your Pen safely to avoid an accidental needle stick .
Other Information • If you have vision problems , do not use your Pen without help from a person trained to use the TRULICITY Pen .
Where to Learn More • If you have any questions or problems with your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider .
• For more information about TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , visit our website at : www . trulicity . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SCAN THIS CODE TO LAUNCH www . trulicity . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 TRULICITY is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Copyright © 2014 , 2018 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
The TRULICITY Pen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 : 2012 and 11608 - 5 : 2012 .
Revised : 09 / 2018 TRUHIAI - 0003 - IFU - 20180921 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use TRULICITY ® ( TRU - li - si - tee ) ( dulaglutide ) injection , for subcutaneous use 3 mg / 0 . 5 mL Single - Dose Pen use 1 time each week ( once weekly ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Information About TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen Please read this Instructions for Use and the Medication Guide carefully and completely before using your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to inject TRULICITY the right way .
• TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen ( Pen ) is a disposable , prefilled medicine delivery device .
Each Pen contains 1 dose of TRULICITY ( 3 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) .
Each Pen should only be used 1 time .
• TRULICITY is used 1 time each week .
You may want to mark your calendar to remind you when to take your next dose .
Before You Get Started [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove Check Inspect Prepare Remove the Pen from the refrigerator .
Leave the Base Cap on until you are ready to inject .
Check the Pen label to make sure you have the right medicine and it has not expired .
Expiration Date [ MULTIMEDIA ] Check the Pen to make sure that it is not damaged and inspect the medicine to make sure it is not cloudy , discolored or has particles in it .
Wash your hands .
Choose Your Injection Site • Your healthcare provider can help you choose the injection site that is best for you .
• You may inject the medicine into your stomach ( abdomen ) or thigh .
• Another person may give you the injection in your upper arm .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site each week .
You may use the same area of your body , but be sure to choose a different injection site in that area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 Uncap the Pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the Pen is locked .
• Pull the Base Cap straight off and throw it away in your household trash .
Do not put the Base Cap back on — this could damage the needle .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 Place and Unlock • Place the Clear Base flat and firmly against your skin at the injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Unlock by turning the Lock Ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 Press and Hold • Press and hold the green Injection Button .
You will hear a loud click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue holding the Clear Base firmly against your skin until you hear a second click .
This happens when the needle starts retracting in about 5 - 10 seconds .
• Remove the Pen from your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important Information Disposal of Pen Storage and Handling Commonly Asked Questions Other Information Where to Learn More Disposing of Your Used Pens • Put your used Pens in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) Pens in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling • Store your Pen in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store your Pen at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for a total of 14 days .
• Do not freeze your Pen .
If the Pen has been frozen , throw the Pen away and use a new Pen .
• Storage of your Pen in the original carton is recommended .
Protect your Pen from direct heat and light .
• The Pen has glass parts .
Handle it carefully .
If you drop it on a hard surface , do not use it .
Use a new Pen for your injection .
• Keep your TRULICITY Pen and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Commonly Asked Questions What if I see air bubbles in my Pen ?
Air bubbles are normal .
What if I unlock the Pen and press the green Injection Button before pulling off the Base Cap ?
Do not remove the Base Cap .
Throw away the Pen and get a new Pen .
What if there is a drop of liquid on the tip of the needle when I remove the Base Cap ?
A drop of liquid on the tip of the needle is normal .
Do I need to hold the Injection Button down until the injection is complete ?
This is not necessary , but it may help you keep the Pen steady and firm against your skin .
I heard more than 2 clicks during my injection — 2 louder clicks and 1 soft one .
Did I get my complete injection ?
Some people may hear a soft click right before the second loud click .
That is the normal operation of the Pen .
Do not remove the Pen from your skin until you hear the second louder click .
What if there is a drop of liquid or blood on my skin after my injection ?
This is normal .
I am not sure if my Pen worked the right way .
Check to see if you have received your dose .
Your dose was delivered the right way if the gray plunger is visible ( see step 3 ) .
Also contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) for further instructions .
Until then , store your Pen safely to avoid an accidental needle stick .
Other Information • If you have vision problems , do not use your Pen without help from a person trained to use the TRULICITY Pen .
Where to Learn More • If you have any questions or problems with your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider .
• For more information about TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , visit our website at : www . trulicity . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . trulicity . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 TRULICITY is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Copyright © 2020 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
The TRULICITY Pen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 : 2012 and 11608 - 5 : 2012 .
Approved : 09 / 2020 TRU3MG - 0001 - IFU - 20200903 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use TRULICITY ® ( TRU - li - si - tee ) ( dulaglutide ) injection , for subcutaneous use 4 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL Single - Dose Pen use 1 time each week ( once weekly ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Information About TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen Please read this Instructions for Use and the Medication Guide carefully and completely before using your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to inject TRULICITY the right way .
• TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen ( Pen ) is a disposable , prefilled medicine delivery device .
Each Pen contains 1 dose of TRULICITY ( 4 . 5 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) .
Each Pen should only be used 1 time .
• TRULICITY is used 1 time each week .
You may want to mark your calendar to remind you when to take your next dose .
Before You Get Started [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove Check Inspect Prepare Remove the Pen from the refrigerator .
Leave the Base Cap on until you are ready to inject .
Check the Pen label to make sure you have the right medicine and it has not expired .
Expiration Date [ MULTIMEDIA ] Check the Pen to make sure that it is not damaged and inspect the medicine to make sure it is not cloudy , discolored or has particles in it .
Wash your hands .
Choose Your Injection Site • Your healthcare provider can help you choose the injection site that is best for you .
• You may inject the medicine into your stomach ( abdomen ) or thigh .
• Another person may give you the injection in your upper arm .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site each week .
You may use the same area of your body , but be sure to choose a different injection site in that area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 Uncap the Pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the Pen is locked .
• Pull the Base Cap straight off and throw it away in your household trash .
Do not put the Base Cap back on — this could damage the needle .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 Place and Unlock • Place the Clear Base flat and firmly against your skin at the injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Unlock by turning the Lock Ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 Press and Hold • Press and hold the green Injection Button .
You will hear a loud click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue holding the Clear Base firmly against your skin until you hear a second click .
This happens when the needle starts retracting in about 5 - 10 seconds .
• Remove the Pen from your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important Information Disposal of Pen Storage and Handling Commonly Asked Questions Other Information Where to Learn More Disposing of Your Used Pens • Put your used Pens in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) Pens in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling • Store your Pen in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store your Pen at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for a total of 14 days .
• Do not freeze your Pen .
If the Pen has been frozen , throw the Pen away and use a new Pen .
• Storage of your Pen in the original carton is recommended .
Protect your Pen from direct heat and light .
• The Pen has glass parts .
Handle it carefully .
If you drop it on a hard surface , do not use it .
Use a new Pen for your injection .
• Keep your TRULICITY Pen and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Commonly Asked Questions What if I see air bubbles in my Pen ?
Air bubbles are normal .
What if I unlock the Pen and press the green Injection Button before pulling off the Base Cap ?
Do not remove the Base Cap .
Throw away the Pen and get a new Pen .
What if there is a drop of liquid on the tip of the needle when I remove the Base Cap ?
A drop of liquid on the tip of the needle is normal .
Do I need to hold the Injection Button down until the injection is complete ?
This is not necessary , but it may help you keep the Pen steady and firm against your skin .
I heard more than 2 clicks during my injection — 2 louder clicks and 1 soft one .
Did I get my complete injection ?
Some people may hear a soft click right before the second loud click .
That is the normal operation of the Pen .
Do not remove the Pen from your skin until you hear the second louder click .
What if there is a drop of liquid or blood on my skin after my injection ?
This is normal .
I am not sure if my Pen worked the right way .
Check to see if you have received your dose .
Your dose was delivered the right way if the gray plunger is visible ( see step 3 ) .
Also contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) for further instructions .
Until then , store your Pen safely to avoid an accidental needle stick .
Other Information • If you have vision problems , do not use your Pen without help from a person trained to use the TRULICITY Pen .
Where to Learn More • If you have any questions or problems with your TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider .
• For more information about TRULICITY Single - Dose Pen , visit our website at : www . trulicity . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . trulicity . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 TRULICITY is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Copyright © 2020 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
The TRULICITY Pen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 : 2012 and 11608 - 5 : 2012 .
Approved : 09 / 2020 TRU4 . 5 MG - 0001 - IFU - 20200903 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TRULICITY ( DULAGLUTIDE ) INJECTION , SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
