Active ingredient : DIMETHICONE Inactive ingredients : Water , Butylene Glycol , Squalane , Caprylic Capric Triglyceride , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , CETOSTEARYL ALCOHOL , Propylene Glycol Dicaprylate Dicaprate , Glycerin , Carbomer , Polysorbate 20 , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Copper Tripeptide - 1 , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , Glycol Stearate SE , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea Butter ) , Pinus Sylvestris Bud Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Extract , Polysorbate 60 , Sorbitan Stearate , Stearic Acid , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Isononyl Isononanoate , Triethanolamine , Hematite Extract , Aluminum Silicate , Topaz , Amethyst Powder , Zeolite , Methyl Paraben , Allantoin , Butyl Paraben , Alcohol , Adenosine , Disodium EDTA , Xanthan Gum , Ubiquinone , Sodium Hyaluronate Purpose : It controls concentedly thick wrinkles around the eye rims and the sides of mouth caused by the lack of sleep , various kinds of pollution and stress .
And it helps to make skin resiliency and animating shapes of eyes .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indication and usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight .
Use it in the morning and evening after applying the Biowhite Beauty Serum .
Dosage and administration : Take up about 0 . 5 g - 1 . 0 g of it and smooth over around the eyes , and then patting on it 2 - 3 times with the ring fingers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
