BAL ( 2 , 3 - dimercapto - 1 - propanol ) 10 % , Benzyl Benzoate 20 % , in Peanut Oil C3H8OS2 Molecular Weight 124 . 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Dimercaprol Injection USP is a colorless or almost colorless liquid chelating agent having a disagreeable , mercaptan - like odor .
Each 1 mL sterile BAL in Oil ( Dimercaprol Injection USP ) contains : 100 mg Dimercaprol in 200 mg Benzyl Benzoate and 700 mg Peanut Oil .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The sulfhydryl groups of dimercaprol form complexes with certain heavy metals thus preventing or reversing the metallic binding of sulfhydryl - containing enzymes .
The complex is excreted .
The sustained presence of dimercaprol promotes continued excretion of the metallic poisons - arsenic , gold and mercury .
It is also used in combination with Edetate Calcium Disodium Injection USP to promote the excretion of lead .
INDICATIONS BAL in Oil ( Dimercaprol Injection USP ) is indicated in the treatment of arsenic , gold and mercury poisoning .
It is indicated in acute lead poisoning when used concomitantly with Edetate Calcium Disodium Injection USP .
Dimercaprol Injection USP is effective for use in acute poisoning by mercury salts if therapy is begun within one or two hours following ingestion .
It is not very effective for chronic mercury poisoning .
Dimercaprol Injection USP is of questionable value in poisoning caused by other heavy metals such as antimony and bismuth .
It should not be used in iron , cadmium , or selenium poisoning because the resulting dimercaprol - metal complexes are more toxic than the metal alone , especially to the kidneys .
CONTRAINDICATIONS BAL in Oil ( Dimercaprol Injection USP ) is contraindicated in most instances of hepatic insufficiency with the exception of postarsenical jaundice .
The drug should be discontinued or used only with extreme caution if acute renal insufficiency develops during therapy .
WARNINGS There may be local pain at the site of the injection .
A reaction apparently peculiar to children is fever which may persist during therapy .
It occurs in approximately 30 % of children .
A transient reduction of the percentage of polymorphonuclear leukocytes may also be observed .
PRECAUTIONS Because the dimercaprol - metal complex breaks down easily in an acid medium , production of an alkaline urine affords protection to the kidney during therapy .
Medicinal iron should not be administered to patients under therapy with BAL in Oil ( Dimercaprol Injection USP ) .
BAL in Oil Ampules is formulated with peanut oil .
Peanut oil may cause allergic reactions in some individuals .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing BAL in Oil Ampules for peanut - sensitive patients .
Medication and equipment necessary to treat allergic reactions should be available if the product is administered to peanut - allergic patients .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with BAL in Oil .
It is also not known whether BAL in Oil can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman , or can affect reproduction capacity .
BAL in Oil should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
However , because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BAL in Oil is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most consistent responses to Dimercaprol Injection USP is a rise in blood pressure accompanied by tachycardia .
This rise is roughly proportional to the dose administered .
Doses larger than those recommended may cause other transitory signs and symptoms in approximate order of frequency as follows : ( 1 ) nausea and , in some instance , vomiting ; ( 2 ) headache ; ( 3 ) a burning sensation in the lips , mouth and throat ; ( 4 ) a feeling of constriction , even pain , in the throat , chest , or hands ; ( 5 ) conjunctivitis , lacrimation , blepharal spasm , rhinorrhea , and salivation ; ( 6 ) tingling of the hands ; ( 7 ) a burning sensation in the penis ; ( 8 ) sweating of the forehead , hands and other areas ; ( 9 ) abdominal pain ; and ( 10 ) occasional appearance of painful sterile abscesses .
Many of the above symptoms are accompanied by a feeling of anxiety , weakness , and unrest and often are relieved by administration of antihistamine .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Dimercaprol Injection USP is not a controlled substance listed in any other Drug Enforcement Administration schedules .
Its use is not known to lead to dependence or abuse .
OVERDOSE Dosage exceeding 5 mg / kg will usually be followed by vomiting , convulsions and stupor , beginning within 30 minutes and subsiding within 6 hours following injection .
AMER .
HOSP .
FORM .
SERV . , 64 : 00 , Amer .
Soc .
Hosp .
Pharm . , 1977 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION By deep intramuscular injection only .
For mild arsenic or gold poisoning , 2 . 5 mg / kg of body weight four times daily for two days , two times on the third day , and once daily thereafter for ten days ; for severe arsenic or gold poisoning , 3 mg / kg every four hours for two - days , four times on the third day , then twice daily thereafter for ten days .
For mercury poisoning , 5 mg / kg initially , followed by 2 . 5 mg / kg one or two times daily for ten days .
For acute lead encephalopathy , 4 mg / kg body weight is given alone in the first dose and thereafter at four - hour intervals in combination with Edetate Calcium Disodium Injection USP administered at a separate site .
For less severe poisoning the dose can be reduced to 3 mg / kg after the first dose .
Treatment is maintained for two to seven days depending on clinical response .
Successful treatment depends on beginning injections at the earliest possible moment and on the use of adequate amounts at frequent intervals .
Other supportive measures should always be used in conjunction with BAL in Oil ( Dimercaprol Injection USP ) therapy .
BAL in Oil should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 mL ( 100 mg / mL ) ampules , box of 10 ( NDC 11098 - 526 - 03 ) .
STORAGE Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY The intramuscular LD50 in rats is approximately 105 mg / kg ; intraperitoneally 140 mg / kg .
The intraperitoneal LD80 in mice is approximately 125 mg / kg .
JR .
PHARM .
EXPER .
THER .
87 , Supplement Aug . 1946 .
Manufactured by [ Taylor logo ] Decatur , IL 62522 BL00N Rev . 10 / 06
