Active ingredients Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 26 % Zinc chloride 0 . 15 % Purpose Oral pain reliever and Oral astringent Use for the temporary relief of pain due to minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) , headache , rapid heart rate , shortness of breath , dizziness or lightheadedness , fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older • Apply to affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children between 2 and 12 years of age • Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age • Do not use Other information do not use if Tamper - Evident Tab is open before first use Inactive ingredients ammonium glycyrrhizate , flavor , PEG - 8 , PEG - 75 , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid , water Questions or comments ?
call us at 1 - 800 - 952 - 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm ET or visit our website at www . orajel . com Principal Display Panel # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIEVER BRAND FOR ADULTS Open Tube Tip Orajel GUM PAIN 3 X MEDICATED GEL INSTANT PAIN RELIEF 20 % Benzocaine to Relieve Gum Pain Cooling Relief to Soothe Gums Relieves Gum Irritation ORAL PAIN RELIEVER / ASTRINGENT NET WT 0 . 125 oz ( 3 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
