meperidine hydrochloride injection , USP CII Rx only DESCRIPTION Meperidine hydrochloride is ethyl 1 - methyl - 4 - phenylisonipecotate hydrochloride , a white crystalline substance with a melting point of 186 ° C to 189 ° C .
It is readily soluble in water and has a neutral reaction and a slightly bitter taste .
The solution is not decomposed by a short period of boiling .
DEMEROL injectable is supplied in Carpuject ™ with luer lock of 2 . 5 % ( 25 mg / 1 mL ) , 5 % ( 50 mg / 1 mL ) , 7 . 5 % ( 75 mg / 1 mL ) , and 10 % ( 100 mg / 1 mL ) .
Uni - Amp ™ unit dose pak - ampuls of 5 % solution ( 25 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) , ( 50 mg / 1 mL ) , ( 75 mg / 1 . 5 mL ) , ( 100 mg / 2 mL ) , and 10 % solution ( 100 mg / 1 mL ) .
Multiple - dose vials of 5 % and 10 % solutions contain metacresol 0 . 1 % as preservative .
The pH of DEMEROL solutions is adjusted between 3 . 5 and 6 with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
DEMEROL , brand of meperidine hydrochloride , 5 percent solution has a specific gravity of 1 . 0086 at 20 ° C and 10 percent solution , a specific gravity of 1 . 0165 at 20 ° C . CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meperidine hydrochloride is a narcotic analgesic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of morphine ; the most prominent of these involve the central nervous system and organs composed of smooth muscle .
The principal actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation .
There is some evidence which suggests that meperidine may produce less smooth muscle spasm , constipation , and depression of the cough reflex than equianalgesic doses of morphine .
Meperidine , in 60 mg to 80 mg parenteral doses , is approximately equivalent in analgesic effect to 10 mg of morphine .
The onset of action is slightly more rapid than with morphine , and the duration of action is slightly shorter .
Meperidine is significantly less effective by the oral than by the parenteral route , but the exact ratio of oral to parenteral effectiveness is unknown .
In clinical studies reported in the literature , changes in several pharmacokinetic parameters with increasing age have been observed .
The initial volume of distribution and steady - state volume of distribution may be higher in elderly patients than in younger patients .
The free fraction of meperidine in plasma may be higher in patients over 45 years of age than in younger patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the relief of moderate to severe pain For preoperative medication For support of anesthesia For obstetrical analgesia CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to meperidine .
Meperidine is contraindicated in patients who are receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or those who have recently received such agents .
Therapeutic doses of meperidine have occasionally precipitated unpredictable , severe , and occasionally fatal reactions in patients who have received such agents within 14 days .
The mechanism of these reactions is unclear , but may be related to a preexisting hyperphenylalaninemia .
Some have been characterized by coma , severe respiratory depression , cyanosis , and hypotension , and have resembled the syndrome of acute narcotic overdose .
In other reactions the predominant manifestations have been hyperexcitability , convulsions , tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , and hypertension .
Although it is not known that other narcotics are free of the risk of such reactions , virtually all of the reported reactions have occurred with meperidine .
If a narcotic is needed in such patients , a sensitivity test should be performed in which repeated , small , incremental doses of morphine are administered over the course of several hours while the patient ’ s condition and vital signs are under careful observation .
( Intravenous hydrocortisone or prednisolone have been used to treat severe reactions , with the addition of intravenous chlorpromazine in those cases exhibiting hypertension and hyperpyrexia .
The usefulness and safety of narcotic antagonists in the treatment of these reactions is unknown . )
Solutions of DEMEROL and barbiturates are chemically incompatible .
WARNINGS Drug Dependence .
Meperidine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore has the potential for being abused .
Psychic dependence , physical dependence , and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of meperidine , and it should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of morphine .
Like other narcotics , meperidine is subject to the provisions of the Federal narcotic laws .
Interaction with Other Central Nervous System Depressants .
MEPERIDINE SHOULD BE USED WITH GREAT CAUTION AND IN REDUCED DOSAGE IN PATIENTS WHO ARE CONCURRENTLY RECEIVING OTHER NARCOTIC ANALGESICS , GENERAL ANESTHETICS , PHENOTHIAZINES , OTHER TRANQUILIZERS ( SEE DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , SEDATIVE - HYPNOTICS ( INCLUDING BARBITURATES ) , TRICYCLIC ANTIDEPRESSANTS AND OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS ( INCLUDING ALCOHOL ) .
RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION , HYPOTENSION , AND PROFOUND SEDATION OR COMA MAY RESULT .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure .
The respiratory depressant effects of meperidine and its capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
In such patients , meperidine must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential .
Intravenous Use .
If necessary , meperidine may be given intravenously , but the injection should be given very slowly , preferably in the form of a diluted solution .
Rapid intravenous injection of narcotic analgesics , including meperidine , increases the incidence of adverse reactions ; severe respiratory depression , apnea , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , and cardiac arrest have occurred .
Meperidine should not be administered intravenously unless a narcotic antagonist and the facilities for assisted or controlled respiration are immediately available .
When meperidine is given parenterally , especially intravenously , the patient should be lying down .
Asthma and Other Respiratory Conditions .
Meperidine should be used with extreme caution in patients having an acute asthmatic attack , patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , and patients with preexisting respiratory depression , hypoxia , or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
Hypotensive Effect .
The administration of meperidine may result in severe hypotension in the postoperative patient or any individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume or the administration of drugs such as the phenothiazines or certain anesthetics .
Usage in Ambulatory Patients .
Meperidine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
Meperidine , like other narcotics , may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Usage in Pregnancy and Lactation .
Meperidine should not be used in pregnant women prior to the labor period , unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards , because safe use in pregnancy prior to labor has not been established relative to possible adverse effects on fetal development .
When used as an obstetrical analgesic , meperidine crosses the placental barrier and can produce depression of respiration and psychophysiologic functions in the newborn .
Resuscitation may be required ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Meperidine appears in the milk of nursing mothers receiving the drug .
PRECAUTIONS As with all intramuscular preparations , DEMEROL intramuscular injection should be injected well within the body of a large muscle .
Supraventricular Tachycardias .
Meperidine should be used with caution in patients with atrial flutter and other supraventricular tachycardias because of a possible vagolytic action which may produce a significant increase in the ventricular response rate .
Convulsions .
Meperidine may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders .
If dosage is escalated substantially above recommended levels because of tolerance development , convulsions may occur in individuals without a history of convulsive disorders .
Acute Abdominal Conditions .
The administration of meperidine or other narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Special Risk Patients .
Meperidine should be given with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in certain patients such as the debilitated , and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ’ s disease , and prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture .
Geriatric Use .
Clinical studies of DEMEROL did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be low , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and oversedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of DEMEROL and observed closely .
This drug is known to be excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Clinical studies indicate that differences in various pharmacokinetic parameters may exist between elderly and younger patients .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of meperidine , as with other narcotic analgesics , are respiratory depression and , to a lesser degree , circulatory depression ; respiratory arrest , shock , and cardiac arrest have occurred .
The most frequently observed adverse reactions include lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea , vomiting , and sweating .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those who are not experiencing severe pain .
In such individuals , lower doses are advisable .
Some adverse reactions in ambulatory patients may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include : Nervous System .
Euphoria , dysphoria , weakness , headache , agitation , tremor , uncoordinated muscle movements , severe convulsions , transient hallucinations and disorientation , visual disturbances .
Inadvertent injection about a nerve trunk may result in sensory - motor paralysis which is usually , though not always , transitory .
Gastrointestinal .
Dry mouth , constipation , biliary tract spasm .
Cardiovascular .
Flushing of the face , tachycardia , bradycardia , palpitation , hypotension ( see WARNINGS ) , syncope , phlebitis following intravenous injection .
Genitourinary .
Urinary retention .
Allergic .
Pruritus , urticaria , other skin rashes , wheal and flare over the vein with intravenous injection .
Other .
Pain at injection site ; local tissue irritation and induration following subcutaneous injection , particularly when repeated ; antidiuretic effect .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms .
Serious overdosage with meperidine is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , particularly by the intravenous route , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment .
Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist , naloxone hydrochloride , is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics , including meperidine .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of this antagonist should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
NOTE : In an individual physically dependent on narcotics , the administration of the usual dose of a narcotic antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The severity of this syndrome will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of antagonist administered .
The use of narcotic antagonists in such individuals should be avoided if possible .
If a narcotic antagonist must be used to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , the antagonist should be administered with extreme care and only one - fifth to one - tenth the usual initial dose administered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Relief of Pain Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
While subcutaneous administration is suitable for occasional use , intramuscular administration is preferred when repeated doses are required .
If intravenous administration is required , dosage should be decreased and the injection made very slowly , preferably utilizing a diluted solution .
The dose of DEMEROL should be proportionately reduced ( usually by 25 to 50 percent ) when administered concomitantly with phenothiazines and many other tranquilizers since they potentiate the action of DEMEROL .
Adults .
The usual dosage is 50 mg to 150 mg intramuscularly or subcutaneously every 3 or 4 hours as necessary .
Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range and observed closely .
Children .
The usual dosage is 0 . 5 mg / lb to 0 . 8 mg / lb intramuscularly or subcutaneously up to the adult dose , every 3 or 4 hours as necessary .
For Preoperative Medication Adults .
The usual dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg intramuscularly or subcutaneously , 30 to 90 minutes before the beginning of anesthesia .
Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range and observed closely .
Children .
The usual dosage is 0 . 5 mg / lb to 1 mg / lb intramuscularly or subcutaneously up to the adult dose , 30 to 90 minutes before the beginning of anesthesia .
For Support of Anesthesia Repeated slow intravenous injections of fractional doses ( e . g . , 10 mg / mL ) or continuous intravenous infusion of a more dilute solution ( e . g . , 1 mg / mL ) should be used .
The dose should be titrated to the needs of the patient and will depend on the premedication and type of anesthesia being employed , the characteristics of the particular patient , and the nature and duration of the operative procedure .
Elderly patients should usually be given meperidine at the lower end of the dose range and observed closely .
For Obstetrical Analgesia The usual dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg intramuscularly or subcutaneously when pain becomes regular , and may be repeated at 1 - to 3 - hour intervals .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED For Parenteral Use Solutions of DEMEROL for parenteral use are clear and colorless and are available as follows : NDC Number Container Concentration Fill ( mL ) Quantity 54868 - 5808 - 0 Carpuject with luer lock 5 % ( 50 mg / mL ) 1 10 54868 - 3230 - 1 Uni - Amp unit dose pak 5 % ( 50 mg ) 1 25 54868 - 4751 - 0 Uni - Amp unit dose pak 10 % ( 100 mg ) 1 25 54868 - 4751 - 1 Uni - Amp unit dose pak 10 % ( 100 mg ) 1 1 Carpuject ™ are packaged in a Slim - Pak ™ tamper detection package .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent , or broken by hand .
Blunt cannulas should not be recapped , purposely bent or broken by hand .
NOTE : The pH of DEMEROL solutions is adjusted between 3 . 5 and 6 with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
Multiple - dose vials contain metacresol 0 . 1 percent as preservative .
No preservatives are added to the ampuls or Carpuject ™ sterile cartridge units .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Demerol is not a trademark of Hospira .
Revised : June , 2010 Printed in USA EN - 2526 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 Additional bar code label applied by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
