DESCRIPTIONMegestrol Acetate Oral Suspension USP contains megestrol acetate , a synthetic derivative of the naturally occurring steroid hormone , progesterone .
Megestrol acetate is a white , crystalline solid chemically designated as pregna - 4 , 6 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 - methyl - .
Solubility at 37 ° C in water is 2 mcg per mL , solubility in plasma is 24 mcg per mL .
Its molecular weight is 384 . 51 .
The molecular formula is C24H3204 and the structural formula is represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension is supplied as an oral suspension containing 40 mg of micronized megestrol acetate per mL .
Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension contains the following inactive ingredients : citric acid , lemon - lime flavor , microcrystalline cellulose / carboxymethylcellulose , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , and sucrose .
The suspension meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 3 in the USP monograph for Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYSeveral investigators have reported on the appetite enhancing property of megestrol acetate and its possible use in cachexia .
The precise mechanism by which megestrol acetate produces effects in anorexia and cachexia is unknown at the present time .
There are several analytical methods used to estimate megestrol acetate plasma concentrations , including gas chromatography - mass fragmentography ( GC - MF ) , high pressure liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) and radioimmunoassay ( RIA ) .
The GC - MF and HPLC methods are specific for megestrol acetate and yield equivalent concentrations .
The RIA method reacts to megestrol acetate metabolites and is , therefore , non - specific and indicates higher concentrations than the GC - MF and HPLC methods .
Plasma concentrations are dependent , not only on the method used , but also on intestinal and hepatic inactivation of the drug , which may be affected by factors such as intestinal tract motility , intestinal bacteria , antibiotics administered , body weight , diet and liver function .
The major route of drug elimination in humans is urine .
When radiolabeled megestrol acetate was administered to humans in doses of 4 mg to 90 mg , the urinary excretion within 10 days ranged from 56 . 5 % to 78 . 4 % ( mean 66 . 4 % ) and fecal excretion ranged from 7 . 7 % to 30 . 3 % ( mean 19 . 8 % ) .
The total recovered radioactivity varied between 83 . 1 % and 94 . 7 % ( mean 86 . 2 % ) .
Megestrol acetate metabolites which were identified in urine constituted 5 % to 8 % of the dose administered .
Respiratory excretion as labeled carbon dioxide and fat storage may have accounted for at least part of the radioactivity not found in urine and feces .
Plasma steady state pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate were evaluated in 10 adult , cachectic male patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) and an involuntary weight loss greater than 10 % of baseline .
Patients received single oral doses of 800 mg / day of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension for 21 days .
Plasma concentration data obtained on day 21 were evaluated for up to 48 hours past the last dose .
Mean ( ± 1 SD ) peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of megestrol acetate was 753 ( ± 539 ) ng / mL .
Mean area under the concentration time - curve ( AUC ) was 10476 ( ± 7788 ) ng x hr / mL .
Median Tmax value was five hours .
Seven of 10 patients gained weight in three weeks .
Additionally , 24 adult , asymptomatic HIV seropositive male subjects were dosed once daily with 750 mg of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension .
The treatment was administered for 14 days .
Mean Cmax and AUC values were 490 ( ± 238 ) ng / mL and 6779 ( ± 3048 ) hr x ng / mL , respectively .
The median Tmax value was three hours .
The mean Cmin value was 202 ( ± 101 ) ng / mL .
The mean percentage of fluctuation value was 107 ( ± 40 ) .
The effect of food on the bioavailability of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension has not been evaluated .
DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIESThe clinical efficacy of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension was assessed in two clinical trials .
One was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study comparing megestrol acetate ( MA ) at doses of 100 mg , 400 mg , and 800 mg per day versus placebo in AIDS patients with anorexia / cachexia and significant weight loss .
Of the 270 patients entered on study , 195 met all inclusion / exclusion criteria , had at least two additional post baseline weight measurements over a 12 - week period or had one post baseline weight measurement but dropped out for therapeutic failure .
The percent of patients gaining five or more pounds at maximum weight gain in 12 study weeks was statistically significantly greater for the 800 mg ( 64 % ) and 400 mg ( 57 % ) MA - treated groups than for the placebo group ( 24 % ) .
Mean weight increased from baseline to last evaluation in 12 study weeks in the 800 mg MA - treated group by 7 . 8 pounds , the 400 mg MA group by 4 . 2 pounds , the 100 mg MA group by 1 . 9 pounds and decreased in the placebo group by 1 . 6 pounds .
Mean weight changes at 4 , 8 and 12 weeks for patients evaluable for efficacy in the two clinical trials are shown graphically .
Changes in body composition during the 12 study weeks as measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis showed increases in non - water body weight in the MA - treated groups ( see Clinical Studies Table ) .
In addition , edema developed or worsened in only 3 patients .
Greater percentages of MA - treated patients in the 800 mg group ( 89 % ) , the 400 mg group ( 68 % ) and the 100 mg group ( 72 % ) , than in the placebo group ( 50 % ) , showed an improvement in appetite at last evaluation during the 12 study weeks .
A statistically significant difference was observed between the 800 mg MA - treated group and the placebo group in the change in caloric intake from baseline to time of maximum weight change .
Patients were asked to assess weight change , appetite , appearance , and overall perception of well - being in a 9 question survey .
At maximum weight change only the 800 mg MA - treated group gave responses that were statistically significantly more favorable to all questions when compared to the placebo - treated group .
A dose response was noted in the survey with positive responses correlating with higher dose for all questions .
The second trial was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study comparing megestrol acetate 800 mg / day versus placebo in AIDS patients with anorexia / cachexia and significant weight loss .
Of the 100 patients entered on study , 65 met all inclusion / exclusion criteria , had at least two additional post baseline weight measurements over a 12 - week period or had one post baseline weight measurement but dropped out for therapeutic failure .
Patients in the 800 mg MA - treated group had a statistically significantly larger increase in mean maximum weight change than patients in the placebo group .
From baseline to study week 12 , mean weight increased by 11 . 2 pounds in the MA - treated group and decreased 2 . 1 pounds in the placebo group .
Changes in body composition as measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis showed increases in non - water weight in the MA - treated group ( see Clinical Studies Table ) .
No edema was reported in the MA - treated group .
A greater percentage of MA - treated patients ( 67 % ) than placebo - treated patients ( 38 % ) showed an improvement in appetite at last evaluation during the 12 study weeks ; this difference was statistically significant .
There were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups in mean caloric change or in daily caloric intake at time to maximum weight change .
In the same 9 question survey referenced in the first trial , patients ’ assessments of weight change , appetite , appearance , and overall perception of well - being showed increases in mean scores in MA - treated patients as compared to the placebo group .
In both trials , patients tolerated the drug well and no statistically significant differences were seen between the treatment groups with regard to laboratory abnormalities , new opportunistic infections , lymphocyte counts , T4 counts , T8 counts , or skin reactivity tests ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Presented below are the results of mean weight changes for patients evaluable for efficacy in Trials 1 and 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGEMegestrol Acetate Oral Suspension USP is indicated for the treatment of anorexia , cachexia , or an unexplained , significant weight loss in patients with a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONSHistory of hypersensitivity to megestrol acetate or any component of the formulation .
Known or suspected pregnancy .
WARNINGSMegestrol acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
For animal data on fetal effects , see PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Impairment of Fertility .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking ( receiving ) this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Megestrol acetate is not intended for prophylactic use to avoid weight loss .
( See also PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility . )
The glucocorticoid activity of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension has not been fully evaluated .
Clinical cases of new onset diabetes mellitus , exacerbation of pre - existing diabetes mellitus , and overt Cushing ’ s syndrome have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol .
In addition , clinical cases of adrenal insufficiency have been observed in patients receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol therapy in the stressed and non - stressed state .
Furthermore , adrenocorticotropin ( ACTH ) stimulation testing has revealed the frequent occurrence of asymptomatic pituitary - adrenal suppression in patients treated with chronic megestrol therapy .
Therefore , the possibility of adrenal insufficiency should be considered in any patient receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol therapy who presents with symptoms and / or signs suggestive of hypoadrenalism ( e . g . , hypotension , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or weakness ) in either the stressed or non - stressed state .
Laboratory evaluation for adrenal insufficiency and consideration of replacement or stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid are strongly recommended in such patients .
Failure to recognize inhibition of the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal axis may result in death .
Finally , in patients who are receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol therapy , consideration should be given to the use of empiric therapy with stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid in conditions of stress or serious intercurrent illness ( e . g . , surgery , infection ) .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralTherapy with Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension , USP for weight loss should only be instituted after treatable causes of weight loss are sought and addressed .
These treatable causes include possible malignancies , systemic infections , gastrointestinal disorders affecting absorption , endocrine disease and renal or psychiatric diseases .
Effects on HIV viral replication have not been determined .
Use with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease .
Use in DiabeticsExacerbation of pre - existing diabetes with increased insulin requirements have been reported in association with the use of megestrol acetate .
Information for the PatientsPatients using megestrol acetate should receive the following instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
• Report any adverse reaction experiences while taking this medication .
• Use contraception while taking this medication if you are a woman capable of becoming pregnant .
• Notify your physician if you become pregnant while taking this medication .
Drug InteractionsPharmacokinetic studies show that there are no significant alterations in pharmacokinetic parameters of zidovudine or rifabutin to warrant dosage adjustment when megestrol acetate is administered with these drugs .
The effects of zidovudine or rifabutin on the pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate were not studied .
Animal ToxicologyLong - term treatment with megestrol acetate may increase the risk of respiratory infections .
A trend toward increased frequency of respiratory infections , decreased lymphocyte counts and increased neutrophil counts was observed in a two - year chronic toxicity / carcinogenicity study of megestrol acetate conducted in rats .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityCarcinogenesisData on carcinogenesis were obtained from studies conducted in dogs , monkeys and rats treated with megestrol acetate at doses 53 . 2 , 26 . 6 and 1 . 3 times lower than the proposed dose ( 13 . 3 mg / kg / day ) for humans .
No males were used in the dog and monkey studies .
In female beagles , megestrol acetate ( 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ) administered for up to 7 years induced both benign and malignant tumors of the breast .
In female monkeys , no tumors were found following 10 years of treatment with 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 5 mg / kg / day megestrol acetate .
Pituitary tumors were observed in female rats treated with 3 . 9 or 10 mg / kg / day of megestrol acetate for 2 years .
The relationship of these tumors in rats and dogs to humans is unknown but should be considered in assessing the risk - to - benefit ratio when prescribing Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension and in surveillance of patients on therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
MutagenesisNo mutagenesis data are currently available .
Impairment of FertilityPerinatal / postnatal ( segment III ) toxicity studies were performed in rats at doses ( 0 . 05 to 12 . 5 mg / kg ) less than that indicated for humans ( 13 . 3 mg / kg ) ; in these low dose studies , the reproductive capability of male offspring of megestrol acetate - treated females was impaired .
Similar results were obtained in dogs .
Pregnant rats treated with megestrol acetate showed a reduction in fetal weight and number of live births , and feminization of male fetuses .
No toxicity data are currently available on male reproduction ( spermatogenesis ) .
PregnancyPregnancy Category X ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Impairment of Fertility . )
No adequate animal teratology information is available at clinically relevant doses .
Nursing MothersBecause of the potential for adverse effects on the newborn , nursing should be discontinued if Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension is required .
Use in HIV Infected WomenAlthough megestrol acetate has been used extensively in women for the treatment of endometrial and breast cancers , its use in HIV infected women has been limited .
All 10 women in the clinical trials reported breakthrough bleeding .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of Megesterol Acetate Oral Suspension in the treatment of anorexia , cachexia , or an unexplained , significant weight loss in patients with AIDS did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Megestrol acetate is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONSClinical Adverse EventsAdverse events which occurred in at least 5 % of patients in any arm of the two clinical efficacy trials and the open trial are listed below by treatment group .
All patients listed had at least one post baseline visit during the 12 study weeks .
These adverse events should be considered by the physician when prescribing Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension Adverse events which occurred in 1 % to 3 % of all patients enrolled in the two clinical efficacy trials with at least one follow - up visit during the first 12 weeks of the study are listed below by body system .
Adverse events occurring less than 1 % are not included .
There were no significant differences between incidence of these events in patients treated with megestrol acetate and patients treated with placebo .
Body as a Whole : abdominal pain , chest pain , infection , moniliasis and sarcoma Cardiovascular System : cardiomyopathy and palpitation Digestive System : constipation , dry mouth , hepatomegaly , increased salivation and oral moniliasis Hemic and Lymphatic System : leukopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : LDH increased , edema and peripheral edema Nervous System : paresthesia , confusion , convulsion , depression , neuropathy , hypesthesia and abnormal thinking Respiratory System : dyspnea , cough , pharyngitis and lung disorder Skin and Appendages : alopecia , herpes , pruritus , vesiculobullous rash , sweating and skin disorder Special Senses : amblyopia Urogenital System : albuminuria , urinary incontinence , urinary tract infection and gynecomastia PostmarketingPostmarketing reports associated with Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension include thromboembolic phenomena including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism , and glucose intolerance ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGENo serious unexpected side effects have resulted from studies involving Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension administered in dosages as high as 1200 mg / day .
Megestrol acetate has not been tested for dialyzability ; however , due to its low solubility it is postulated that dialysis would not be an effective means of treating overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONThe recommended adult initial dosage of Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension is 800 mg / day ( 20 mL / day ) .
Shake container well before using .
In clinical trials evaluating different dose schedules , daily doses of 400 and 800 mg / day were found to be clinically effective .
A plastic dosage cup with 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 mL markings is provided for convenience .
HOW SUPPLIEDMegestrol Acetate Oral Suspension USP , 40 mg / mL Smooth , viscous , white , lemon - lime flavored suspension containing 40 mg of micronized megestrol acetate per mL NDC 0054 - 3542 - 58 : Bottles of 240 mL ( 8 fl .
oz ) .
Storage Store between 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) and dispense in a tight container .
Protect from heat .
SPECIAL HANDLINGHealth Hazard DataThere is no threshold limit value established by OSHA , NIOSH , or ACGIH .
Exposure or “ overdose ” at levels approaching recommended dosing levels could result in side effects described above ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS - ) .
Women at risk of pregnancy should avoid such exposure .
10000312 / 06 Revised November 2007 © RLI , 2007
