Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser contains 98 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 48 mg of Sulfur in a formulation containing aloe vera gel , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium edetate , glyceryl monostearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , PEG - 40 stearate , PEG - 6 caprylic / capric glyceride , PEG - 60 almond glyceride , propylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium thiosulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , and xanthan gum Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER .
It is also not known whether SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topicaI use of SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be excreted in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash affected areas with SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER 1 to 2 times daily or as directed by a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using cleanser less often .
HOW SUPPLIED SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 9 . 8 % - SULFUR 4 . 8 % CLEANSER is supplied in an 10 oz .
( 285 g ) bottle , NDC 71399 - 0486 - 1 STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP “ Controlled Room Temperature . ” ]
Note : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep container or packet tightly closed .
Occasionally , a slight yellowish discoloration may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendation based on his / her professional knowledge and opinion , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients , excipients and chemical information provided herein .
QUESTIONS ?
Please Call 1 ( 877 ) 225 - 6999 Manufactured for : Akron Pharma , Inc .
Fairfield , NJ 07004 Manufactured in U . S . A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
