DESCRIPTION Betaxolol is a β1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent available as 10 - mg and 20 - mg tablets for oral administration .
Betaxolol is chemically described as 2 - propanol , 1 - [ 4 - [ 2 - ( cyclopropylmethoxy ) ethyl ] phenoxy ] - 3 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] - , hydrochloride , ( ± ) .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betaxolol hydrochloride is a water - soluble white crystalline powder with a molecular formula of C18H29NO3 • HCl and a molecular weight of 343 . 9 .
It is freely soluble in water , ethanol , chloroform , and methanol , and has a pKa of 9 . 4 .
The inactive ingredients are anhydrous lactose , carnauba wax , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , pregeletanized starch ( corn ) , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Betaxolol is a β1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent that has weak membrane - stabilizing activity and no intrinsic sympathomimetic ( partial agonist ) activity .
The preferential effect on β1 receptors is not absolute , however , and some inhibitory effects on β2 receptors ( found chiefly in the bronchial and vascular musculature ) can be expected at higher doses .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism In man , absorption of an oral dose is complete .
There is a small and consistent first - pass effect resulting in an absolute bioavailability of 89 % ± 5 % that is unaffected by the concomitant ingestion of food or alcohol .
Mean peak blood concentrations of 21 . 6 ng / ml ( range 16 . 3 to 27 . 9 ng / ml ) are reached between 1 . 5 and 6 ( mean about 3 ) hours after a single oral dose , in healthy volunteers , of 10 mg of betaxolol .
Peak concentrations for 20 - mg and 40 - mg doses are 2 and 4 times that of a 10 - mg dose and have been shown to be linear over the dose range of 5 to 40 mg .
The peak to trough ratio of plasma concentrations over 24 hours is 2 . 7 .
The mean elimination half - life in various studies in normal volunteers ranged from about 14 to 22 hours after single oral doses and is similar in chronic dosing .
Steady state plasma concentrations are attained after 5 to 7 days with once - daily dosing in persons with normal renal function .
Betaxolol is approximately 50 % bound to plasma proteins .
It is eliminated primarily by liver metabolism and secondarily by renal excretion .
Following oral administration , greater than 80 % of a dose is recovered in the urine as betaxolol and its metabolites .
Approximately 15 % of the dose administered is excreted as unchanged drug , the remainder being metabolites whose contribution to the clinical effect is negligible .
Steady state studies in normal volunteers and hypertensive patients found no important differences in kinetics .
In patients with hepatic disease , elimination half - life was prolonged by about 33 % , but clearance was unchanged , leading to little change in AUC .
Dosage reductions have not routinely been necessary in these patients .
In patients with chronic renal failure undergoing dialysis , mean elimination half - life was approximately doubled , as was AUC , indicating the need for a lower initial dosage ( 5 mg ) in these patients .
The clearance of betaxolol by hemodialysis was 0 . 015 L / h / kg and by peritoneal dialysis , 0 . 010 L / h / kg .
In one study ( n = 8 ) , patients with stable renal failure , not on dialysis , with mean creatinine clearance of 27 ml / min showed slight increases in elimination half - life and AUC , but no change in Cmax .
In a second study of 30 hypertensive patients with mild to severe renal impairment , there was a reduction in clearance of betaxolol with increasing degrees of renal insufficiency .
Inulin clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) ranged from 70 to 107 in 7 patients with mild impairment , 41 to 69 in 14 patients with moderate impairment , and 8 to 37 in 9 patients with severe impairment .
Clearance following oral dosing was reduced significantly in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment ( 26 % and 35 % , respectively ) when compared with those with mildly impaired renal function .
In the severely impaired group , the mean Cmax and the mean elimination half - life tended to increase ( 28 % and 24 % , respectively ) when compared with the mildly impaired group .
A starting dose of 5 mg is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment .
( See Dosage and Administration . )
Studies in elderly patients ( n = 10 ) gave inconsistent results but suggest some impairment of elimination , with one small study ( n = 4 ) finding a mean half - life of 30 hours .
A starting dose of 5 mg is suggested in older patients .
Pharmacodynamics Clinical pharmacology studies have demonstrated the beta - adrenergic receptor blocking activity of betaxolol by ( 1 ) reduction in resting and exercise heart rate , cardiac output , and cardiac work load , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest and during exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
The β1 - selectivity of betaxolol in man was shown in three ways : ( 1 ) In normal subjects , 10 - and 40 - mg oral doses of betaxolol , which reduced resting heart rate at least as much as 40 mg of propranolol , produced less inhibition of isoproterenol - induced increases in forearm blood flow and finger tremor than propranolol .
In this study , 10 mg of betaxolol was at least comparable to 50 mg of atenolol .
Both doses of betaxolol , and the one dose of atenolol , however , had more effect on the isoproterenol - induced changes than placebo ( indicating some β2 effect at clinical doses ) and the higher dose of betaxolol was more inhibitory than the lower .
( 2 ) In normal subjects , single intravenous doses of betaxolol and propranolol , which produced equal effects on exercise - induced tachycardia , had differing effects on insulin - induced hypoglycemia , with propranolol , but not betaxolol , prolonging the hypoglycemia compared with placebo .
Neither drugaffected the maximum extent of the hypoglycemic response .
( 3 ) In a single - blind crossover study in asthmatics ( n = 10 ) , intravenous infusion over 30 minutes of low doses of betaxolol ( 1 . 5 mg ) and propranolol ( 2 mg ) had similar effects on resting heart rate but had differing effects on FEV1 and forced vital capacity , with propranolol causing statistically significant ( 10 % to 20 % ) reductions from baseline in mean values for both parameters while betaxolol had no effect on mean values .
While blood levels were not measured , the dose of betaxolol used in this study would be expected to produce blood concentrations , at the time of the pulmonary function studies , considerably lower than those achieved during antihypertensive therapy with recommended doses of betaxolol .
In a randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled crossover ( 4X4 Latin Square ) study in 10 asthmatics , betaxolol ( about 5 or 10 mg IV ) had little effect on isoproterenol - induced increases in FEV1 ; in contrast , propranolol ( about 7 mg IV ) inhibited the response .
Consistent with its negative chronotropic effect , due to beta - blockade of the SA node , and lack of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , betaxolol increases sinus cycle length and sinus node recovery time .
Conduction in the AV node is also prolonged .
Significant reductions in blood pressure and heart rate were observed 24 hours after dosing in double - blind , placebo - controlled trials with doses of 5 to 40 mg administered once daily .
The antihypertensive response to betaxolol was similar at peak blood levels ( 3 to 4 hours ) and at trough ( 24 hours ) .
In a large randomized , parallel dose - response study of 5 , 10 , and 20 mg , the antihypertensive effects of the 5 - mg dose were roughly half of the effects of the 20 - mg dose ( after adjustment for placebo effects ) and the 10 - mg dose gave more than 80 % of the antihypertensive response to the 20 - mg dose .
The effect of increasing the dose from 10 mg to 20 mg was thus small .
In this study , while the antihypertensive response to betaxolol showed a dose - response relationship , the heart rate response ( reduction in HR ) was not dose related .
In other trials , there was little evidence of a greater antihypertensive response to 40 mg than to 20 mg .
The maximum effect of each dose was achieved within 1 or 2 weeks .
In comparative trials against propranolol , atenolol , and chlorthalidone , betaxolol appeared to be at least as effective as the comparative agent .
Betaxolol has been studied in combination with thiazide - type diuretics and the blood pressure effects of the combination appear additive .
Betaxolol has also been used concurrently with methyldopa , hydralazine , and prazosin .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents has not been established .
Several possible mechanisms have been proposed , however , including : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic - neuronal sites , leading to decreased cardiac output , ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery , and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
The results from long - term studies have not shown any diminution of the antihypertensive effect of betaxolol with prolonged use .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betaxolol is indicated in the management of hypertension .
It may be used alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents , particularly thiazide - type diuretics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betaxolol is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
Betaxolol is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia , heart block greater than first degree , cardiogenic shock , and overt cardiac failure .
( see Warnings ) .
WARNINGS Cardiac failure Sympathetic stimulation may be a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure , and beta - adrenergic receptor blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe heart failure .
In hypertensive patients who have congestive heart failure controlled by digitalis and diuretics , beta - blockers should be administered cautiously .
Both digitalis and beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents slow AV conduction .
In patients without a history of cardiac failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
Therefore at the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , discontinuation of betaxolol should be considered .
In some cases beta - blocker therapy can be continued while cardiac failure is treated with cardiac glycosides , diuretics , and other agents , as appropriate .
Exacerbation of angina pectoris upon withdrawal Abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease has been followed by exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction has been reported .
Therefore , such patients should be warned against interruption of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris , when discontinuation of betaxolol is planned , the patient should be carefully observed and therapy should be reinstituted , at least temporarily , if withdrawal symptoms occur .
Bronchospastic diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD NOT IN GENERAL RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of its relative β1 - selectivity ( cardioselectivity ) , low doses of betaxolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to or cannot tolerate alternative treatment .
Since β1 - selectivity is not absolute and is inversely related to dose , the lowest possible dose of betaxolol should be used ( 5 to 10 mg once daily ) and a bronchodilator should be made available .
If dosage must be increased , divided dosage should be considered to avoid the higher peak blood levels associated with once - daily dosing .
Anesthesia and major surgery The necessity , or desirability , of withdrawal of a beta - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
While this might be of benefit in preventing arrhythmic response , the risk of excessive myocardial depression during general anesthesia may be increased and difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heart beat has been reported with beta - blockers .
If treatment is continued , particular care should be taken when using anesthetic agents which depress the myocardium , such as ether , cyclopropane , and trichloroethylene , and it is prudent to use the lowest possible dose of betaxolol .
Betaxolol , like other beta - blockers , is a competitive inhibitor of beta - receptor agonists and its effect on the heart can be reversed by cautious administration of such agents ( eg , dobutamine or isoproterenol — see Overdosage ) .
Manifestations of excessive vagal tone ( eg , profound bradycardia , hypotension ) may be corrected with atropine 1 to 3 mg IV in divided doses .
Diabetes and hypoglycemia Beta - blockers should be used with caution in diabetic patients .
Beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia ( patients should be warned of this ) , although other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
Unlike nonselective beta - blockers , betaxolol does not prolong insulin - induced hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs of hyperthyroidism ( eg , tachycardia ) .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm ; therefore , patients known or suspected of being thyrotoxic from whom betaxolol is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely ( see Dosage and Administration : Cessation of Therapy ) .
Betaxolol should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma .
PRECAUTIONS General Beta - adrenoceptor blockade can cause reduction of intraocular pressure .
Since betaxolol hydrochloride is marketed as an ophthalmic solution for treatment of glaucoma , patients should be told that betaxolol may interfere with the glaucoma - screening test .
Withdrawal may lead to a return of increased intraocular pressure .
Patients receiving beta - adrenergic blocking agents orally and beta - blocking ophthalmic solutions should be observed for potential additive effects either on the intraocular pressure or on the known systemic effects of beta - blockade .
The value of using beta - blockers in psoriatic patients should be carefully weighed since they have been reported to cause an aggravation in psoriasis .
Impaired hepatic or renal function Betaxolol is primarily metabolized in the liver to metabolites that are inactive and then excreted by the kidneys ; clearance is somewhat reduced in patients with renal failure but little changed in patients with hepatic disease .
Dosage reductions have not routinely been necessary when hepatic insufficiency is present ( see Dosage and Administration ) but patients should be observed .
Patients with severe renal impairment and those on dialysis require a reduced dose .
( See Dosage and Administration ) .
Information for Patients Patients , especially those with evidence of coronary artery insufficiency , should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of betaxolol therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Although cardiac failure rarely occurs in appropriately selected patients , patients being treated with beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be advised to consult a physician at the first sign or symptom of failure .
Patients should know how they react to this medicine before they operate automobiles and machinery or engage in other tasks requiring alertness .
Patients should contact their physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs , and before surgery of any type .
Patients should inform their physicians , ophthalmologists , or dentists that they are taking betaxolol .
Patients with diabetes should be warned that beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions The following drugs have been coadministered with betaxolol and have not altered its pharmacokinetics : cimetidine , nifedipine , chlorthalidone , and hydrochlorothiazide .
Concomitant administration of betaxolol with the oral anticoagulant warfarin has been shown not to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin .
Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( eg , reserpine ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Patients treated with a beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Should it be decided to discontinue therapy in patients receiving beta - blockers and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be discontinued slowly over several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine .
Literature reports suggest that oral calcium antagonists may be used in combination with beta - adrenergic blocking agents when heart function is normal , but should be avoided in patients with impaired cardiac function .
Hypotension , AV conduction disturbances , and left ventricular failure have been reported in some patients receiving beta - adrenergic blocking agents when an oral calcium antagonist was added to the treatment regimen .
Hypotension was more likely to occur if the calcium antagonist were a dihydropyridine derivative , eg , nifedipine , while left ventricular failure and AV conduction disturbances , including complete heart block , were more likely to occur with either verapamil or diltiazem .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta blockers .
Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects .
Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia , 0 Hasystole and heart failure when administered with beta blockers .
Risk of anaphylactic reaction Although it is known that patients on beta - blockers may be refractory to epinephrine in the treatment of anaphylactic shock , beta - blockers can , in addition , interfere with the modulation of allergic reaction and lead to an increased severity and / or frequency of attacks .
Severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported in patients exposed to a variety of allergens either by repeated challenge , or accidental contact , and with diagnostic or therapeutic agents while receiving beta - blockers .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Lifetime studies with betaxolol HCl in mice at oral dosages of 6 , 20 , and 60 mg / kg / day ( up to 90 × the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] based on 60 - kg body weight ) and in rats at 3 , 12 , or 48 mg / kg / day ( up to 72 × MRHD ) showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect .
In a variety of in vitro and in vivo bacterial and mammalian cell assays , betaxolol HCl was nonmutagenic .
Betaxolol did not adversely affect fertility or mating performance of male or female rats at doses up to 256 mg / kg / day ( 380 × MRHD ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In a study in which pregnant rats received betaxolol at doses of 4 , 40 , or 400 mg / kg / day , the highest dose ( 600 × MRHD ) was associated with increased postimplantation loss , reduced litter size and weight , and an increased incidence of skeletal and visceral abnormalities , which may have been a consequence of drug - related maternal toxicity .
Other than a possible increased incidence of incomplete descent of testes and sternebral reductions , betaxolol at 4 mg / kg / day and 40 mg / kg / day ( 6 × MRHD and 60 × MRHD ) caused no fetal abnormalities .
In a second study with a different strain of rat , 200 mg betaxolol / kg / day ( 300 × MRHD ) was associated with maternal toxicity and an increase in resorptions , but no teratogenicity .
In a study in which pregnant rabbits received doses of 1 , 4 , 12 , or 36 mg betaxolol / kg / day ( 54 × MRHD ) , a marked increase in post - implantation loss occurred at the highest dose , but no drug - related teratogenicity was observed .
The rabbit is more sensitive to betaxolol than other species because of higher bioavailability resulting from saturation of the first - pass effect .
In a peri - and postnatal study in rats at doses of 4 , 32 , and 256 mg betaxolol / kg / day ( 380 × MRHD ) , the highest dose was associated with a marked increase in total litter loss within 4 days postpartum .
In surviving offspring , growth and development were also affected .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Betaxolol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Beta - blockers reduce placental perfusion , which may result in intrauterine fetal death , immature and premature deliveries .
In addition , adverse effects ( especially hypoglycemia and bradycardia ) may occur in fetus .
Neonatal period The beta - blocker action persists in the neonate for several days after birth to a treated mother : there is an increased risk of cardiac and pulmonary complications in the neonate in the postnatal period .
Bradycardia , respiratory distress and hypoglycemia have also been reported .
Accordingly , attentive surveillance of the neonate ( heart rate and blood glucose for the first 3 to 5 days of life ) in a specialized setting is recommended .
Nursing mothers Since betaxolol is excreted in human milk in sufficient amounts to have pharmacological effects in the infant , caution should be exercised when betaxolol is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Elderly patients Betaxolol may produce bradycardia more frequently in elderly patients .
In general , patients 65 years of age and older had a higher incidence rate of bradycardia ( heart rate < 50 BPM ) than younger patients in U . S . clinical trials .
In a double - blind study in Europe , 19 elderly patients ( mean age = 82 ) received betaxolol 20 mg daily .
Dosage reduction to 10 mg or discontinuation was required for 6 patients due to bradycardia ( See Dosage and Administration ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient and are typical of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , eg , bradycardia , fatigue , dyspnea , and lethargy .
Withdrawal of therapy in U . S . and European controlled clinical trials has been necessary in about 3 . 5 % of patients , principally because of bradycardia , fatigue , dizziness , headache , and impotence .
Frequency estimates of adverse events were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were volunteered and elicited in U . S . studies and volunteered and / or elicited in European studies .
In the U . S . , the placebo - controlled hypertension studies lasted for 4 weeks , while the active - controlled hypertension studies had a 22 - to 24 - week double - blind phase .
The following doses were studied : betaxolol — 5 , 10 , 20 , and 40 mg once daily ; atenolol — 25 , 50 , and 100 mg once daily ; and propranolol — 40 , 80 , and 160 mg b . i . d . Betaxolol , like other beta - blockers , has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies ( ANA ) ( e . g . , lupus erythematosus ) .
In controlled clinical studies , conversion of ANA from negative to positive occurred in 5 . 3 % of the patients treated with betaxolol , 6 . 3 % of the patients treated with atenolol , 4 . 9 % of the patients treated with propranolol , and 3 . 2 % of the patients treated with placebo .
Betaxolol adverse events reported with a 2 % or greater frequency , and selected events with lower frequency , in U . S . controlled studies are : Table 1 - Adverse Events ReportAdverse Events for Betaxolol and Placebo - Treated Patients Dose Range Body System / Adverse Reaction Betaxolol ( N = 509 ) 5 - 40 mg q . d . * ( % ) Betaxolol ( N = 73 ) 40 - 160 mg b . i . d . ( % ) Betaxolol ( N = 75 ) 25 - 100 mg b . i . d . ( % ) Placebo ( N = 109 ) ( % ) Cardiovascular ( heart rate < 50 BPM ) Symptomatic bradycardia Edema 8 . 1 0 . 8 1 . 8 4 . 1 1 . 4 0 12 . 0 0 0 0 Central Nervous System Headache Dizziness Fatigue Lethargy 6 . 5 4 . 5 2 . 9 2 . 8 4 . 1 11 . 0 9 . 6 4 . 1 5 . 3 2 . 7 4 . 0 2 . 7 15 . 6 5 . 5 0 0 . 9 Psychiatric Insomnia Nervousness Bizarre dreams Depression 1 . 2 0 . 8 1 . 0 0 . 8 8 . 2 1 . 4 2 . 7 2 . 7 2 . 7 2 . 7 1 . 3 4 . 0 0 0 0 0 Autonomic Impotence 1 . 2 † 0 0 0 Respiratory Dyspnea Pharyngitis Rhinitis Upper respiratory infection 2 . 4 2 . 0 1 . 4 2 . 6 2 . 7 0 0 0 1 . 3 4 . 0 4 . 0 0 0 . 9 0 . 9 0 . 9 5 . 5 Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia Nausea Diarrhea 4 . 7 1 . 6 2 . 0 6 . 8 1 . 4 6 . 8 2 . 7 4 . 0 8 . 0 0 . 9 0 0 . 9 Musculoskeletal Chest pain Arthralgia 2 . 4 3 . 1 1 . 4 0 2 . 7 4 . 0 0 . 9 1 . 8 Skin Rash 1 . 2 0 0 0 * Five patients received 80 mg q . d . † N = 336 males , impotence is a known possible adverse effect of this pharmacological class .
Of the above adverse reactins associated with the use of betaxolol , only bradycardia was clearly dose related , but there was a suggestion of dose relatedness for fatigue , lethargy , and dyspepsia .
In Europe , the placebo - controlled study lasted for 4 weeks , while the comparative studies had a 4 - 52 - week double - blind phase .
The following doses were studied : betaxolol 20 and 40 mg once daily and atenolol 100 mg once daily .
From European controlled hypertension clinical trials , the following adverse events reported by 2 % or more patients and selected events with lower frequency are presented : Table 2 - European Controlled Hypertension Clinical TrialsAdverse Events Reporting for Betaxolol , Atenolol and Placebo Patients Dose Range Body System / Adverse Reaction Betaxolol ( N = 155 ) 20 - 40 mg q . d . ( % ) Atenolol ( N = 81 ) 100 mg q . d . ( % ) Placebo ( N = 60 ) ( % ) Cardiovascular Bradycardia ( heartrate < 50 BPM ) Symptomatic bradycardia Palpitation Edema Cold extremities 5 . 8 1 . 9 1 . 9 1 . 3 1 . 9 5 . 0 2 . 5 3 . 7 1 . 2 0 0 0 1 . 7 0 0 Central Nervous System Headache Dizziness Fatigue Asthenia Insomnia Paresthesia 14 . 8 14 . 8 9 . 7 7 . 1 5 . 0 . 9 9 . 9 17 . 3 18 . 5 0 3 . 7 2 . 5 23 . 3 15 . 0 0 16 . 7 3 . 3 0 Gastrointestinal Nausea Dyspepsia Diarrhea 5 . 8 3 . 9 1 . 9 1 . 2 7 . 4 3 . 7 0 3 . 3 0 Musculoskeletal Chest pain Joint pain Myalgia 7 . 1 5 . 2 3 . 2 6 . 2 4 . 9 3 . 7 5 . 0 1 . 7 3 . 3 The only adverse event whose frequency clearly rose with increasing dose was bradycardia .
Elderly patients were especially susceptible to bradycardia , which in some cases responded to dose - reduction ( see Precautions ) .
The following selected ( potentially important ) adverse events have been reported at an incidence of less than 2 % in U . S . controlled and open , long - term clinical studies , European controlled clinical trials , or in marketing experience .
It is not known whether a causal relationship exists between betaxolol and these events ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Autonomic : flushing , salivation , sweating .
Body as a whole : allergy , fever , malaise , pain , rigors .
Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , atrioventricular block , heart failure , hypertension , hypotension , myocardial infarction , thrombosis , syncope .
Central and peripheral nervous system : ataxia , neuralgia , neuropathy , numbness , speech disorder , stupor , tremor , twitching .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dry mouth , increased appetite , mouth ulceration , rectal disorders , vomiting , dysphagia .
Hearing and Vestibular : earache , labyrinth disorders , tinnitus , deafness .
Hematologic : anemia , leucocytosis , lymphadenopathy , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
Liver and biliary : increased AST , increased ALT .
Metabolic and nutritional : acidosis , diabetes , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , hyperlipemia , hyperuricemia , hypokalemia , weight gain , weight loss , thirst , increased LDH .
Musculoskeletal : arthropathy , neck pain , muscle cramps , tendonitis .
Psychiatric : abnormal thinking , amnesia , impaired concentration , confusion , emotional lability , hallucinations , decreased libido .
Reproductive disorders : Female : breast pain , breast fibroadenosis , menstrual disorder ; Male : Peyronie ' s disease , prostatitis .
Respiratory : bronchitis , bronchospasm , cough , epistaxis , flu , pneumonia , sinusitis .
Skin : alopecia , eczema , erythematous rash , hypertrichosis , pruritus , skin disorders .
Special senses : abnormal taste , taste loss .
Urinary system : cystitis , dysuria , micturition disorder , oliguria , proteinuria , abnormal renal function , renal pain .
Vascular : cerebrovascular disorder , intermittent claudication , leg cramps , peripheral ischemia , thrombophlebitis .
Vision : abnormal lacrimation , abnormal vision , blepharitis , ocular hemorrhage , conjunctivitis , dry eyes , iritis , cataract , scotoma .
Potential adverse effects Although not reported in clinical studies with betaxolol , a variety of adverse effects have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and may be considered potential adverse effects of betaxolol : Central nervous system : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability with slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometric tests .
Allergic : Fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenic purpura , and nonthrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis .
Metabolic : Hypoglycemia .
Miscellaneous : Raynaud ' s phenomena .
There have been reports of skin rashes and / or dry eyes associated with the use of beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
The reported incidence is small , and in most cases , the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn .
Discontinuation of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable .
Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with betaxolol during investigational use and extensive foreign experience .
However , dry eyes have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information on emergency treatment of overdosage with betaxolol is available .
The most common effects expected are bradycardia , congestive heart failure , hypotension , bronchospasm , and hypoglycemia .
In one acute overdosage of betaxolol , a 16 - year - old female recovered fully after ingesting 460 mg .
Oral LD50s are 350 to 400 mg betaxolol / kg in mice and 860 to 980 mg / kg in rats .
In the case of overdosage , treatment with betaxolol should be stopped and the patient carefully observed .
Hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis does not remove substantial amounts of the drug .
In addition to gastric lavage , the following therapeutic measures are suggested if warranted : Hypotension Use sympathomimetic pressor drug therapy , such as dopamine , dobutamine , or norepinephrine .
In refractory cases of overdosage of other beta - blockers , the use of glucagon hydrochloride has been reported to be useful .
Bradycardia Atropine should be administered .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , isoproterenol should be administered cautiously .
( see Warnings : Anesthesia and major surgery ) .
In refractory cases the use of a transvenous cardiac pacemaker may be considered .
Acute cardiac failure Conventional therapy including digitalis , diuretics , and oxygen should be instituted immediately .
Bronchospasm Use a β2 - agonist .
Additional therapy with aminophylline may be considered .
Heart block ( 2 nd - or 3 rd - degree ) Use isoproterenol or a transvenous cardiac pacemaker .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dose of betaxolol in hypertension is ordinarily 10 mg once daily either alone or added to diuretic therapy .
The full antihypertensive effect is usually seen within 7 to 14 days .
If the desired response is not achieved the dose can be doubled after 7 to 14 days .
Increasing the dose beyond 20 mg has not been shown to produce a statistically significant additional antihypertensive effect ; but the 40 - mg dose has been studied and is well tolerated .
An increased effect ( reduction ) on heart rate should be anticipated with increasing dosage .
If monotherapy with betaxolol does not produce the desired response , the addition of a diuretic agent or other antihypertensive should be considered ( see , Drug Interactions ) .
Dosage adjustments for specific patients Patients with renal failure In patients with renal impairment , clearance of betaxolol declines with decreasing renal function .
In patients with severe renal impairment and those undergoing dialysis the initial dose of betaxolol is 5 mg once daily .
If the desired response is not achieved , dosage may be increased by 5 mg / day increments every 2 weeks to a maximum dose of 20 mg / day .
Patients with hepatic disease Patients with hepatic disease do not have significantly altered clearance .
Dosage adjustments are not routinely needed .
Elderly patients Consideration should be given to reduction in the starting dose to 5 mg in elderly patients .
These patients are especially prone to beta - blocker - induced bradycardia , which appears to be dose related and sometimes responds to reductions in dose .
Cessation of therapy If withdrawal of betaxolol therapy is planned , it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks .
Patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum .
HOW SUPPLIED Betaxolol Tablets USP , 10 mg * contains 10 mg betaxolol hydrochloride ( equivalent to 8 . 94 mg betaxolol ) are white , round biconvex , film - coated tablets , debossed “ Є ” above and “ 38 ” below bisect on one side and plain on the other side , available in Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 4932 - 1 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 4932 - 0 Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Issued 05 / 10 MF038ISS05 / 10 OE1091 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
