Octocrylene 4 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Ensulizole 2 . 5 % Sunscreen Helps prevent sunburn For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children • Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Do not remain in the sun for too long , even if you are using a sunscreen product .
Even with UV light protection , direct sunlight at noontime is to be avoided .
If not enough of the product is used , the sun protection provided is significantly reduced .
Avoid excessive sunbathing .
Do not expose infants and small children to direct sunlight .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Ask a doctor before use on children under six month of age Do not store above 25 ° C . protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun water ( aqua ) , caprylyl - caprylate / caprate , coco - caprylate , pentylene glycol , glycerin , cetearyl olivate , sorbitan olivate , polysilicone - 15 , sodium hydroxide , pvp / eicosene copolymer , sodium stearoyl glutamate , ectoin , cetyl alcohol , saccharide isomerate ( pentavitin ) , octyldodecanol , cardiospermum halicacabum extract , echium plantagineum seed oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) oil unsaponifiables , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , squalane , solanum lycopersicum ( tomato ) fruit extract , brassica oleracea italica ( broccoli ) seed oil , xanthan gum , tocopheryl acetate , parfum ( fragrance ) , citric acid , sodium phytate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
