FOR INTRAVAGINAL USE ONLY DESCRIPTION Clindamycin phosphate is a water - soluble ester of the semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
The monohydrate form has a molecular weight of 522 . 98 , and the molecular formula is C18H34ClN2O8PS • H2O .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules are semisolid , white to off - white suppositories for intravaginal administration .
Each 2 . 5 g suppository contains clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 100 mg clindamycin in a base consisting of a mixture of glycerides of saturated fatty acids .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Clindamycin is an antibacterial drug ( See MICROBIOLOGY ) .
Pharmacokinetics Systemic absorption of clindamycin was estimated following a once - a - day intravaginal dose of one clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppository ( equivalent to 100 mg clindamycin ) administered to 11 healthy female volunteers for 3 days .
Approximately 30 % ( range 6 % to 70 % ) of the administered dose was absorbed systemically on day 3 of dosing based on area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) .
Systemic absorption was estimated using a subtherapeutic 100 mg intravenous dose of clindamycin phosphate as a comparator in the same volunteers .
The mean AUC following day 3 of dosing with the suppository was 3 . 2 µg hr / mL ( range 0 . 42 to 11 µg hr / mL ) .
The Cmax observed on day 3 of dosing with the suppository averaged 0 . 27 µg / mL ( range 0 . 03 to 0 . 67 µg / mL ) and was observed about 5 hours after dosing ( range 1 to 10 hours ) .
In contrast , the AUC and Cmax after the single intravenous dose averaged 11 µg hr / mL ( range 5 . 1 to 26 µg hr / mL ) and 3 . 7 µg / mL ( range 2 . 4 to 5 . 0 µg / mL ) , respectively .
The mean apparent elimination half - life after dosing with the suppository was 11 hours ( range 4 to 35 hours ) and is considered to be limited by the absorption rate .
The results from this study showed that systemic exposure to clindamycin ( based on AUC ) from the suppository was , on average , three - fold lower than that from a single subtherapeutic 100 mg intravenous dose of clindamycin .
In addition , the recommended daily and total doses of intravaginal clindamycin suppository are far lower than those typically administered in oral or parenteral clindamycin therapy ( 100 mg of clindamycin per day for 3 days equivalent to about 30 mg absorbed per day from the ovule relative to 600 to 2700 mg / day for up to 10 days or more , orally or parenterally ) .
The overall systemic exposure to clindamycin from Cleocin Vaginal Ovules is substantially lower than the systemic exposure from therapeutic doses of oral clindamycin hydrochloride ( two - fold to 20 - fold lower ) or parenteral clindamycin phosphate ( 40 - fold to 50 - fold lower ) .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is predominantly bacteriostatic .
Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts it to active clindamycin .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of the target site on the ribosome , usually by chemical modification of RNA bases or by point mutations in RNA or occasionally in proteins .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramins B in some organisms .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antibacterial Activity Culture and sensitivity testing of bacteria are not routinely performed to establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) ; standard methodology for the susceptibility testing of the potential bacterial pathogens , Gardnerella vaginalis , Mobiluncus spp . , or Mycoplasma hominis , has not been defined .
The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown .
Clindamycin is active in vitro against most isolates of the following organisms reported to be associated with bacterial vaginosis : • Bacteroides spp .
• Gardnerella vaginalis • Mobiluncus spp .
• Mycoplasma hominis • Peptostreptococcus spp .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules are indicated for 3 - day treatment of bacterial vaginosis in non - pregnant women .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules in pregnant women .
NOTE : For purposes of this indication , a clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis is usually defined by the presence of a homogeneous vaginal discharge that ( a ) has a pH of greater than 4 . 5 , ( b ) emits a " fishy " amine odor when mixed with a 10 % KOH solution , and ( c ) contains clue cells on microscopic examination .
Gram ' s stain results consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include ( a ) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology , ( b ) predominance of Gardnerella morphotype , and ( c ) absent or few white blood cells .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis , e . g . , Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans , and herpes simplex virus , should be ruled out .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to clindamycin , lincomycin , or any of the components of this vaginal suppository .
CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules are also contraindicated in individuals with a history of regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or a history of " antibiotic - associated " colitis .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis , which may end fatally .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of orally and parenterally administered clindamycin , as well as with topical ( dermal and vaginal ) formulations of clindamycin .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules , because approximately 30 % of the clindamycin dose is systemically absorbed from the vagina .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridioides difficile is a primary cause of " antibiotic - associated " colitis .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridioides difficile colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antimicrobial treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General The use of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms in the vagina .
In clinical studies using CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules , treatment - related moniliasis was reported in 2 . 7 % and vaginitis in 3 . 6 % of 589 nonpregnant women .
Moniliasis , as reported here , includes the terms : vaginal or nonvaginal moniliasis and fungal infection .
Vaginitis includes the terms : vulvovaginal disorder , vaginal discharge , and vaginitis / vaginal infection .
Information for the Patient The patient should be instructed not to engage in vaginal intercourse or use other vaginal products ( such as tampons or douches ) during treatment with this product .
The patient should also be advised that these suppositories use an oleaginous base that may weaken latex or rubber products such as condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Therefore , the use of such products within 72 hours following treatment with CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules is not recommended .
Drug Interactions Systemic clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 31 times the human exposure based on mg / m2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters , has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
Clindamycin vaginal ovules should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed and the benefits outweigh the risks .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
CLEOCIN Vaginal Cream , 2 % , has been studied in pregnant women during the second trimester .
In women treated for 7 days , abnormal labor was reported more frequently in patients who received CLEOCIN Vaginal Cream compared to those receiving placebo ( 1 . 1 % vs . 0 . 5 % of patients , respectively ) .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral and parenteral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 62 and 25 times , respectively , the maximum human dose based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to clindamycin .
Cleft palates were observed in fetuses from one mouse strain treated intraperitoneally with clindamycin at 200 mg / kg / day ( about 10 times the recommended dose based on body surface area conversions ) .
Since this effect was not observed in other mouse strains or in other species , the effect may be strain specific .
Nursing Mothers Limited published data based on breast milk sampling reports that clindamycin appears in human breast milk in the range of less than 0 . 5 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL at dosages of 150 mg orally to 600 mg intravenously .
It is not known if clindamycin is excreted in human breast milk following the use of vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
If clindamycin is required by a nursing mother , it is not a reason to discontinue breastfeeding , but an alternate drug may be preferred .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis in post - menarchal females have been established on the extrapolation of clinical trial data from adult women .
When a post - menarchal adolescent presents to a health professional with bacterial vaginosis symptoms , a careful evaluation for sexually transmitted diseases and other risk factors for bacterial vaginosis should be considered .
The safety and efficacy of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules in pre - menarchal females have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials In clinical trials , 3 ( 0 . 5 % ) of 589 nonpregnant women who received treatment with CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules discontinued therapy due to drug - related adverse events .
Adverse events judged to have a reasonable possibility of having been caused by clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories were reported for 10 . 5 % of patients .
Events reported by 1 % or more of patients receiving CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules were as follows : Urogenital system : Vulvovaginal disorder ( 3 . 4 % ) , vaginal pain ( 1 . 9 % ) , and vaginal moniliasis ( 1 . 5 % ) .
Body as a whole : Fungal infection ( 1 . 0 % ) .
Other events reported by < 1 % of patients included : Urogenital system : Menstrual disorder , dysuria , pyelonephritis , vaginal discharge , and vaginitis / vaginal infection .
Body as a whole : Abdominal cramps , localized abdominal pain , fever , flank pain , generalized pain , headache , localized edema , and moniliasis .
Digestive system : Diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
Skin : Nonapplication - site pruritis , rash , application - site pain , and application - site pruritis .
Other clindamycin formulations The overall systemic exposure to clindamycin from CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules is substantially lower than the systemic exposure from therapeutic doses of oral clindamycin hydrochloride ( two - fold to 20 - fold lower ) or parenteral clindamycin phosphate ( 40 - fold to 50 - fold lower ) .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral or parenteral clindamycin , the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded .
The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin and may also occur following administration of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules : Infections and Infestations : Clostridioides difficile colitis Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and pseudomembranous colitis .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) , eosinophilia , agranulocytosis , and thrombocytopenia have been reported .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy .
Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions .
Cases of Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) , erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have been associated with clindamycin .
A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Musculoskeletal : Cases of polyarthritis have been reported .
Renal : Acute kidney injury Immune System : Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) cases have been reported .
There have been reports of pseudomembranous colitis following the administration of clindamycin vaginal cream .
OVERDOSAGE Vaginally applied clindamycin phosphate contained in CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules could be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovule ( containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 100 mg clindamycin per 2 . 5 g suppository ) intravaginally per day , preferably at bedtime , for 3 consecutive days .
HOW SUPPLIED CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules are supplied as follows : Carton of three suppositories with one applicator NDC 0009 - 7667 - 01 Carton of three suppositories without the applicator NDC 0009 - 7667 - 05 Important Information : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Caution : Avoid heat over 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Avoid high humidity .
See end of carton for the lot number and expiration date .
Rx only This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0047 - 15 . 0 Revised 07 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cleocin ® Vaginal Ovules ( clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories ) DIRECTIONS FOR USE How do I use CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules ?
For vaginal use only .
Do not take by mouth .
Use one CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovule daily , preferably at bedtime , for 3 days in a row .
Do not use this product if the foiled pouches containing vaginal ovules are torn , opened , or incompletely sealed .
Read the full directions below before using .
Insertion with the applicator : • 1 .
Remove the vaginal ovule from its packaging ( See Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Pull back the plunger about an inch and place the vaginal ovule in the wider end of the applicator barrel ( See Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Hold the applicator as shown and gently insert the end of the applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
This can be done while lying on your back with your knees bent ( as shown in Figure 3 ) , or while standing with your feet apart and your knees bent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
While holding the barrel of the applicator in place , push the plunger in until it stops to release the vaginal ovule .
Remove the applicator from the vagina .
• 5 .
Clean the applicator after each use .
Pull the two pieces apart and wash them with soap and warm water .
Rinse well and dry .
Put the two pieces back together and store in a clean , dry place .
• 6 .
Once inside the vagina , the ovule melts .
Lie down as soon as possible .
This will keep leakage to a minimum .
• 7 .
Repeat steps 1 through 6 , before bedtime , for the next 2 days .
Insertion without the applicator : • Remove the vaginal ovule from its packaging ( See Figure 1 above ) .
• Holding the ovule with your thumb and a finger , insert it into the vagina ( See Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 • Using your finger , gently push the ovule into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go ( See Figure 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 • Once inside the vagina , the ovule melts .
Lie down as soon as possible .
This will keep leakage to a minimum .
• Repeat steps 1 through 4 , before bedtime , for the next 2 days .
STORAGE CONDITIONS : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Caution : Avoid heat over 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Avoid high humidity .
See end of carton for the lot number and expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0649 - 2 . 0 Revised July 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Suppository Blister Pack Cleocin ® 100 mg ( clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories ) Dist .
by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co .
LLC A subsidiary of Pfizer Inc . , NY , NY 10017 Lot Exp [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Suppository Blister Pack Carton NDC 0009 - 7667 - 01 Pfizer Cleocin ® Vaginal Ovules ( clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories ) equivalent to 100 mg * clindamycin For Intravaginal Use Only 3 Suppositories with one applicator Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Suppository Blister Pack Carton - NDC 0009 - 7667 - 05 NDC 0009 - 7667 - 05 Pfizer Cleocin ® Vaginal Ovules ( clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories ) equivalent to 100 mg * clindamycin For Intravaginal Use Only 3 Suppositories Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
