Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) 12 / 2011 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 12 / 2011 WARNING : DIMINISHED EFFECTIVENESS IN POOR METABOLIZERS The effectiveness of clopidogrel bisulfate is dependent on its activation to an active metabolite by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system , principally CYP2C19 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Clopidogrel bisulfate at recommended doses forms less of that metabolite and has a smaller effect on platelet function in patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
Poor metabolizers with acute coronary syndrome or undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention treated with clopidogrel bisulfate at recommended doses exhibit higher cardiovascular event rates than do patients with normal CYP2C19 function .
Tests are available to identify a patient ' s CYP2C19 genotype ; these tests can be used as an aid in determining therapeutic strategy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Consider alternative treatment or treatment strategies in patients identified as CYP2C19 poor metabolizers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : DIMINISHED EFFECTIVENESS IN POOR METABOLIZERS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Effectiveness of clopidogrel bisulfate depends on activation to an active metabolite by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system , principally CYP2C19 .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Poor metabolizers treated with clopidogrel bisulfate at recommended doses exhibit higher cardiovascular event rates following acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) or percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) than patients with normal CYP2C19 function .
( 12 . 5 ) • • Tests are available to identify a patient ' s CYP2C19 genotype and can be used as an aid in determining therapeutic strategy .
( 12 . 5 ) • • Consider alternative treatment or treatment strategies in patients identified as CYP2C19 poor metabolizers .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel bisulfate is a P2Y12 platelet inhibitor indicated for : • • Acute coronary syndrome • 1 .
For patients with non - ST - segment elevation ACS [ unstable angina ( UA ) / non - ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( NSTEMI ) ] including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization , clopidogrel has been shown to decrease the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction ( MI ) , or stroke as well as the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , MI , stroke , or refractory ischemia .
( 1 . 1 ) • 2 .
For patients with ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) , clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of death , re - infarction , or stroke .
The benefit for patients who undergo primary PCI is unknown .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Recent myocardial infarction ( MI ) , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease .
clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the combined endpoint of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new MI ( fatal or not ) , and other vascular death .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome ( ACS ) • • For patients with non - ST - segment elevation ACS [ unstable angina ( UA ) / non - ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( NSTEMI ) ] , including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization , clopidogrel bisulate has been shown to decrease the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction ( MI ) , or stroke as well as the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , MI , stroke , or refractory ischemia .
• • For patients with ST - elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) , clopidogdrel bisulfate has been shown to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of death , re - infarction , or stroke .
The benefit for patients who undergo primary percutaneous coronary intervention is unknown .
The optimal duration of clopidogrel bisulfate therapy in ACS is unknown .
1 . 2 Recent MI , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease For patients with a history of recent myocardial infarction ( MI ) , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease , clopidogrel bisulfate has been shown to reduce the rate of a combined endpoint of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new MI ( fatal or not ) , and other vascular death .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Acute coronary syndrome ( 2 . 1 ) • Non - ST - segment elevation ACS ( UA / NSTEMI ) : 300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg once daily , in combination with aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) • STEMI : 75 mg once daily , in combination with aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) , with or without a loading dose and with or without thrombolytics • • Recent MI , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease : 75 mg once daily ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome Clopidogrel Tablets can be administered with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• • For patients with non - ST - elevation ACS ( UA / NSTEMI ) , initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily .
Initiate aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) and continue in combination with clopidogrel tablets [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
• • For patients with STEMI , the recommended dose of clopidogrel is 75 mg once daily orally , administered in combination with aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) , with or without thrombolytics .
Clopidogrel may be initiated with or without a loading dose [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recent MI , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease The recommended daily dose of clopidogrel is 75 mg once daily orally , with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers CYP2C19 poor metabolizer status is associated with diminished antiplatelet response to clopidogrel .
Although a higher dose regimen in poor metabolizers increases antiplatelet response [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] , an appropriate dose regimen for this patient population has not been established .
2 . 4 Use with Proton Pump Inhibitors ( PPI ) Avoid using omeprazole or esomeprazole with Clopidogrel .
Omeprazole and esomeprazole significantly reduce the antiplatelet activity of Clopidogrel .
When concomitant administration of a PPI is required , consider using another acid - reducing agent with minimal or no CYP2C19 inhibitory effect on the formation of clopidogrel active metabolite [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Clopidogrel Tablets , USP 75 mg are pink , round , biconvex , film coated tablets , engraved " APO " on one side and " CL " over " 75 " on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 30 Bottles of 90 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 90 Bottles of 100 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 01 Carton of 100 ( 10 x 10 Blister Pack ) NDC 62034 - 015 - 77 • • Tablets : 75 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Active pathological bleeding , such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel bisulfate is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel bisulfate is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reduced effectiveness in impaired CYP2C19 function : Avoid concomitant use with omeprazole or esomeprazole .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Bleeding : clopidogrel bisulfate increases risk of bleeding .
Discontinue 5 days prior to elective surgery .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Discontinuation of clopidogrel bisulfate : Premature discontinuation increases risk of cardiovascular events .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Recent transient ischemic attack or stroke : Combination use of clopidogrel bisulfate and aspirin in these patients was not shown to be more effective than clopidogrel bisulfate alone , but was shown to increase major bleeding .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) : TTP has been reported with clopidogrel bisulfate , including fatal cases .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Diminished Antiplatelet Activity Due to Impaired CYP2C19 Function Clopidogrel is a prodrug .
Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is achieved through an active metabolite .
The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by genetic variations in CYP2C19 [ see Boxed Warning ] and by concomitant medications that interfere with CYP2C19 .
Proton Pump Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use of Clopidogrel with omeprazole or esomeprazole because both significantly reduce the antiplatelet activity of Clopidogrel [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 General Risk of Bleeding Thienopyridines , including clopidogrel bisulfate , increase the risk of bleeding .
If a patient is to undergo surgery and an antiplatelet effect is not desired , discontinue clopidogrel bisulfate five days prior to surgery .
In patients who stopped therapy more than five days prior to CABG the rates of major bleeding were similar ( event rate 4 . 4 % clopidogrel bisulfate + aspirin ; 5 . 3 % placebo + aspirin ) .
In patients who remained on therapy within five days of CABG , the major bleeding rate was 9 . 6 % for clopidogrel bisulfate + aspirin , and 6 . 3 % for placebo + aspirin .
Thienopyridines inhibit platelet aggregation for the lifetime of the platelet ( 7 - 10 days ) , so withholding a dose will not be useful in managing a bleeding event or the risk of bleeding associated with an invasive procedure .
Because the half - life of clopidogrel ’ s active metabolite is short , it may be possible to restore hemostasis by administering exogenous platelets ; however , platelet transfusions within 4 hours of the loading dose or 2 hours of the maintenance dose may be less effective .
5 . 3 Discontinuation of Clopidogrel Bisulfate Avoid lapses in therapy , and if clopidogrel bisulfate must be temporarily discontinued , restart as soon as possible .
Premature discontinuation of clopidogrel bisulfate may increase the risk of cardiovascular events .
5 . 4 Patients with Recent Transient Ischemic Attack ( TIA ) or Stroke In patients with recent TIA or stroke who are at high risk for recurrent ischemic events , the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel bisulfate has not been shown to be more effective than clopidogrel bisulfate alone , but the combination has been shown to increase major bleeding .
5 . 5 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( TTP ) TTP , sometimes fatal , has been reported following use of clopidogrel bisulfate , sometimes after a short exposure ( < 2 weeks ) .
TTP is a serious condition that requires urgent treatment including plasmapheresis ( plasma exchange ) .
It is characterized by thrombocytopenia , microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( schistocytes [ fragmented RBCs ] seen on peripheral smear ) , neurological findings , renal dysfunction , and fever [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Cross - Reactivity among Thienopyridines Hypersensitivity including rash , angioedema or hematologic reaction have been reported in patients receiving clopidogrel , including patients with a history of hypersensitivity or hematologic reaction to other thienopyridines [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed below and elsewhere in the labeling : • • Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Bleeding , including life - threatening and fatal bleeding , is the most commonly reported adverse reaction .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Inc . at 1 - 800 - 667 - 4708 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions and durations of follow up , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Clopidogrel bisulfate has been evaluated for safety in more than 54 , 000 patients , including over 21 , 000 patients treated for 1 year or more .
The clinically important adverse reactions observed in trials comparing clopidogrel plus aspirin to placebo plus aspirin and trials comparing clopidogrel bisulfate alone to aspirin alone are discussed below .
Bleeding CURE In CURE , clopidogrel bisulfate use with aspirin was associated with an increase in major bleeding ( primarily gastrointestinal and at puncture sites ) compared to placebo with aspirin ( see Table 1 ) .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage ( 0 . 1 % ) and fatal bleeding ( 0 . 2 % ) were the same in both groups .
Other bleeding events that were reported more frequently in the clopidogrel group were epistaxis , hematuria , and bruise .
The overall incidence of bleeding is described in Table 1 .
Ninety - two percent ( 92 % ) of the patients in the CURE study received heparin or low molecular weight heparin ( LMWH ) , and the rate of bleeding in these patients was similar to the overall results Table 1 : CURE Incidence of Bleeding Complications ( % patients ) Event Clopidogrel Bisulfate ( + aspirin ) [ 1 ] Placebo ( + aspirin ) null ( n = 6259 ) ( n = 6303 ) Major bleeding [ 2 ] 3 . 7 [ 3 ] 2 . 7 [ 4 ] Life - threatening bleeding 2 . 2 1 . 8 Fatal 0 . 2 0 . 2 5 g / dL hemoglobin drop 0 . 9 0 . 9 Requiring surgical intervention 0 . 7 0 . 7 Hemorrhagic strokes 0 . 1 0 . 1 Requiring inotropes 0 . 5 0 . 5 Requiring transfusion ( ≥ 4 units ) 1 . 2 1 . 0 Other major bleeding 1 . 6 1 . 0 Significantly disabling 0 . 4 0 . 3 Intraocular bleeding with significant loss of vision 0 . 05 0 . 03 Requiring 2 – 3 units of blood 1 . 3 0 . 9 Minor bleeding [ 5 ] 5 . 1 2 . 4 [ 1 ] Other standard therapies were used as appropriate .
[ 2 ] Life - threatening and other major bleeding .
[ 3 ] Major bleeding event rate for clopidogrel bisulfate + aspirin was dose - dependent on aspirin : < 100 mg = 2 . 6 % ; 100 – 200 mg = 3 . 5 % ; > 200 mg = 4 . 9 % [ 4 ] Major bleeding event rate for placebo + aspirin was dose - dependent on aspirin : < 100 mg = 2 . 0 % ; 100 – 200 mg = 2 . 3 % ; > 200 mg = 4 . 0 % [ 5 ] Led to interruption of study medication .
COMMIT In COMMIT , similar rates of major bleeding were observed in the clopidogrel bisulfate and placebo groups , both of which also received aspirin ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Incidence of Bleeding Events in COMMIT ( % patients ) Type of bleeding Clopidogrel bisulfate ( + aspirin ) ( n = 22961 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) ( n = 22891 ) p - value Major [ 1 ] noncerebral or cerebral bleeding [ 2 ] 0 . 6 0 . 5 0 . 59 Major noncerebral 0 . 4 0 . 3 0 . 48 Fatal 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 90 Hemorrhagic stroke 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 91 Fatal 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 81 Other noncerebral bleeding ( non - major ) 3 . 6 3 . 1 0 . 005 Any noncerebral bleeding 3 . 9 3 . 4 0 . 004 [ 1 ] Major bleeds were cerebral bleeds or non - cerebral bleeds thought to have caused death or that required transfusion .
[ 2 ] The relative rate of major noncerebral or cerebral bleeding was independent of age .
Event rates for Clopidogrel bisulfate + aspirin by age were : < 60 years = 0 . 3 % , ≥ 60 to < 70 years = 0 . 7 % , ≥ 70 years = 0 . 8 % .
Event rates for placebo + aspirin by age were : < 60 years = 0 . 4 % , ≥ 60 to < 70 years = 0 . 6 % , ≥ 70 years = 0 . 7 % .
CAPRIE ( Clopidogrel bisulfate vs . Aspirin ) In CAPRIE , gastrointestinal hemorrhage occurred at a rate of 2 . 0 % in those taking clopidogrel bisulfate vs . 2 . 7 % in those taking aspirin ; bleeding requiring hospitalization occurred in 0 . 7 % and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage was 0 . 4 % for clopidogrel bisulfate compared to 0 . 5 % for aspirin .
Other bleeding events that were reported more frequently in the clopidogrel bisulfate group were epistaxis and hematoma .
Other Adverse Events In CURE and CHARISMA , which compared clopidogrel bisulfate plus aspirin to aspirin alone , there was no difference in the rate of adverse events ( other than bleeding ) between clopidogrel bisulfate and placebo .
In CAPRIE , which compared clopidogrel bisulfate to aspirin , pruritus was more frequently reported in those taking clopidogrel bisulfate .
No other difference in the rate of adverse events ( other than bleeding ) was reported .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clopidogrel bisulfate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of an unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia / pancytopenia , thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) • • Eye disorders : Eye ( conjunctival , ocular , retinal ) bleeding • • Gastrointestinal disorders : Gastrointestinal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage with fatal outcome , colitis ( including ulcerative or lymphocytic colitis ) , pancreatitis , stomatitis , gastric / duodenal ulcer , diarrhea • • General disorders and administration site condition : Fever , hemorrhage of operative wound • • Hepato - biliary disorders : Acute liver failure , hepatitis ( non - infectious ) , abnormal liver function test • • Immune system disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactoid reactions , serum sickness • • Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : Musculoskeletal bleeding , myalgia , arthralgia , arthritis • • Nervous system disorders : Taste disorders , fatal intracranial bleeding , headache • • Psychiatric disorders : Confusion , hallucinations • • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Bronchospasm , interstitial pneumonitis , respiratory tract bleeding • • Renal and urinary disorders : Increased creatinine levels • • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Maculopapular or erythematous rash , urticaria , bullous dermatitis , eczema , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , angioedema , erythema multiforme , skin bleeding , lichen planus , generalized pruritus • • Vascular disorders : Vasculitis , hypotension 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Combination use increases risk of gastrointestinal bleeding .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Warfarin : Combination use increases risk of bleeding .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Proton Pump Inhibitors ( PPI ) Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel bisulfate with omeprazole or esomeprazole .
In clinical studies , omeprazole was shown to reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel bisulfate when given concomitantly or 12 hours apart .
A higher dose regimen of clopidogrel concomitantly administered with omeprazole increases antiplatelet response ; an appropriate dose regimen has not been established .
A similar reduction in antiplatelet activity was observed with esomeprazole when given concomitantly with clopidogrel bisulfate .
Consider using another acid - reducing agent with minimal or no CYP2C19 inhibitory effect on the formation of clopidogrel active metabolite .
Dexlansoprazole , lansoprazole and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel bisulfate than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) Coadministration of Clopidogrel Bisulfate and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding .
7 . 3 Warfarin ( CYP2C9 Substrates ) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S - warfarin ( a CYP2C9 substrate ) or INR in patients receiving long - term warfarin therapy , coadministration of clopiodgrel bisulfate with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis .
However , at high concentrations in vitro , clopidogrel inhibits CYP2C9 .
7 . 4 SSRIs and SNRIs Since selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) affect platelet activation , the concomitant administration of SSRIs and SNRIs with clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing mothers : Discontinue drug or nursing , taking into consideration importance of drug to mother .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 500 and 300 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 65 and 78 times the recommended daily human dose , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or fetotoxicity due to clopidogrel .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of a human response , clopiodgrel bisulfate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Studies in rats have shown that clopidogrel and / or its metabolites are excreted in the milk .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from clopidogrel , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric populations have not been established .
Additional information describing a clinical study in which efficacy was not demonstrated in neonates and infants is approved in the package insert for Bristol - Myers Squibb ’ s clopidogrel tablets .
However , due to Bristol - Myers Squibb ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in the CAPRIE and CURE controlled clinical studies , approximately 50 % of patients treated with clopiodgrel bisulfate were 65 years of age and older , and 15 % were 75 years and older .
In COMMIT , approximately 58 % of the patients treated with clopiodgrel bisulfate were 60 years and older , 26 % of whom were 70 years and older .
The observed risk of bleeding events with clopiodgrel plus aspirin versus placebo plus aspirin by age category is provided in Table 1 and Table 2 for the CURE and COMMIT trials , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment 8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Platelet inhibition by clopidogrel is irreversible and will last for the life of the platelet .
Overdose following clopidogrel administration may result in bleeding complications .
A single oral dose of clopidogrel at 1500 or 2000 mg / kg was lethal to mice and to rats and at 3000 mg / kg to baboons .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were vomiting , prostration , difficult breathing , and gastrointestinal hemorrhage in animals .
Based on biological plausibility , platelet transfusion may restore clotting ability .
11 DESCRIPTION Clopidogrel bisulfate is an inhibitor of ADP - induced platelet aggregation acting by direct inhibition of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) binding to its receptor and of the subsequent ADP - mediated activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb / IIIa complex .
Chemically it is methyl ( + ) - ( S ) - α - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 6 , 7 - dihydrothieno [ 3 , 2 - c ] pyridine - 5 ( 4 H ) - acetate sulfate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The empirical formula of clopidogrel bisulfate is C16H16ClNO2S • H2SO4 and its molecular weight is 419 . 9 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clopidogrel bisulfate is a white to off - white powder .
It is practically insoluble in water at neutral pH but freely soluble at pH 1 .
It also dissolves freely in methanol , dissolves sparingly in methylene chloride , and is practically insoluble in ethyl ether .
It has a specific optical rotation of about + 56 ° .
Clopidogrel Tablets , USP 75 mg for oral administration are provided as pink , round , biconvex , film coated tablets , engraved “ APO ” on one side , “ CL ” over “ 75 ” on the other side .
The tablets contain 97 . 875 mg of clopidogrel bisulfate , which is the molar equivalent of 75 mg of clopidogrel base .
Each tablet contains anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , methylcellulose and zinc stearate as inactive ingredients .
The pink film coating contains red ferric oxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose 2910 , polyethylene glycol and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clopidogrel is an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation through the irreversible binding of its active metabolite to the P2Y12 class of ADP receptors on platelets .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clopidogrel must be metabolized by CYP450 enzymes to produce the active metabolite that inhibits platelet aggregation .
The active metabolite of clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) to its platelet P2Y12 receptor and the subsequent ADP - mediated activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb / IIIa complex , thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation .
This action is irreversible .
Consequently , platelets exposed to clopidogrel ' s active metabolite are affected for the remainder of their lifespan ( about 7 to 10 days ) .
Platelet aggregation induced by agonists other than ADP is also inhibited by blocking the amplification of platelet activation by released ADP .
Dose - dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation can be seen 2 hours after single oral doses of clopidogrel .
Repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day inhibit ADP - induced platelet aggregation on the first day , and inhibition reaches steady state between Day 3 and Day 7 .
At steady state , the average inhibition level observed with a dose of 75 mg clopidogrel per day was between 40 % and 60 % .
Platelet aggregation and bleeding time gradually return to baseline values after treatment is discontinued , generally in about 5 days .
Geriatric Patient Elderly ( ≥ 75 years ) and young healthy subjects had similar effects on platelet aggregation .
Renally - Impaired Patients After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day , patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance from 5 to 15 mL / min ) and moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance from 30 to 60 mL / min ) showed low ( 25 % ) inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation .
Hepatically - Impaired Patients After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day for 10 days in patients with severe hepatic impairment , inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was similar to that observed in healthy subjects .
Gender In a small study comparing men and women , less inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was observed in women .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Clopidogrel is a prodrug and is metabolized to a pharmacologically active metabolite and inactive metabolites .
Absorption After single and repeated oral doses of 75 mg per day , clopidogrel is rapidly absorbed .
Absorption is at least 50 % , based on urinary excretion of clopidogrel metabolites .
Effect of Food Clopidogrel can be administered with or without food .
In a study in healthy male subjects when Clopidogrel 75 mg per day was given with a standard breakfast , mean inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was reduced by less than 9 % .
The active metabolite AUC0 – 24 was unchanged in the presence of food , while there was a 57 % decrease in active metabolite Cmax .
Similar results were observed when a Clopidogrel 300 mg loading dose was administered with a high - fat breakfast .
Metabolism Clopidogrel is extensively metabolized by two main metabolic pathways : one mediated by esterases and leading to hydrolysis into an inactive carboxylic acid derivative ( 85 % of circulating metabolites ) and one mediated by multiple cytochrome P450 enzymes .
Cytochromes first oxidize clopidogrel to a 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Subsequent metabolism of the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite results in formation of the active metabolite , a thiol derivative of clopidogrel .
This metabolic pathway is mediated by CYP2C19 , CYP3A , CYP2B6 and CYP1A2 .
The active thiol metabolite binds rapidly and irreversibly to platelet receptors , thus inhibiting platelet aggregation for the lifespan of the platelet .
The Cmax of the active metabolite is twice as high following a single 300 mg clopidogrel loading dose as it is after four days of 75 mg maintenance dose .
Cmax occurs approximately 30 to 60 minutes after dosing .
In the 75 to 300 mg dose range , the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite deviates from dose proportionality : increasing the dose by a factor of four results in 2 . 0 - and 2 . 7 - fold increases in Cmax and AUC , respectively .
Elimination Following an oral dose of 14 C - labeled clopidogrel in humans , approximately 50 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 46 % in feces over the 5 days post - dosing .
After a single , oral dose of 75 mg , clopidogrel has a half - life of approximately 6 hours .
The half - life of the active metabolite is about 30 minutes .
Drug Interactions Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
Concomitant use of certain inhibitors of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition .
Proton Pump Inhibitors ( PPI ) The effect of proton pump inhibitors ( PPI ) on the systemic exposure to the clopidogrel active metabolite following multiple doses of Clopidogrel 75 mg evaluated in dedicated drug interaction studies is presented in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic parameters measured in these studies showed that the interaction was highest with omeprazole and least with dexlansoprazole .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2C19 is involved in the formation of both the active metabolite and the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Clopidogrel active metabolite pharmacokinetics and antiplatelet effects , as measured by ex vivo platelet aggregation assays , differ according to CYP2C19 genotype .
Genetic variants of other CYP450 enzymes may also affect the formation of clopidogrel ' s active metabolite .
The CYP2C19 * 1 allele corresponds to fully functional metabolism while the CYP2C19 * 2 and * 3 alleles are nonfunctional .
CYP2C19 * 2 and * 3 account for the majority of reduced function alleles in white ( 85 % ) and Asian ( 99 % ) poor metabolizers .
Other alleles associated with absent or reduced metabolism are less frequent , and include , but are not limited to , CYP2C19 * 4 , * 5 , * 6 , * 7 , and * 8 .
A patient with poor metabolizer status will possess two loss - of - function alleles as defined above .
Published frequencies for poor CYP2C19 metabolizer genotypes are approximately 2 % for whites , 4 % for blacks and 14 % for Chinese .
Tests are available to determine a patient ' s CYP2C19 genotype .
A crossover study in 40 healthy subjects , 10 each in the four CYP2C19 metabolizer groups , evaluated pharmacokinetic and antiplatelet responses using 300 mg followed by 75 mg per day and 600 mg followed by 150 mg per day , each for a total of 5 days .
Decreased active metabolite exposure and diminished inhibition of platelet aggregation were observed in the poor metabolizers as compared to the other groups .
When poor metabolizers received the 600 mg / 150 mg regimen , active metabolite exposure and antiplatelet response were greater than with the 300 mg / 75 mg regimen ( see Table 3 ) .
An appropriate dose regimen for this patient population has not been established in clinical outcome trials .
Table 3 : Active Metabolite Pharmacokinetics and Antiplatelet Responses by CYP2C19 Metabolizer Status Dose Ultrarapid ( n = 10 ) Extensive ( n = 10 ) Intermediate ( n = 10 ) Poor ( n = 10 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 300 mg ( 24 h ) 24 ( 10 ) 32 ( 21 ) 23 ( 11 ) 11 ( 4 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 36 ( 13 ) 44 ( 27 ) 39 ( 23 ) 17 ( 6 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 12 ( 6 ) 13 ( 7 ) 12 ( 5 ) 4 ( 1 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 16 ( 9 ) 19 ( 5 ) 18 ( 7 ) 7 ( 2 ) IPA ( % ) [ 1 ] 300 mg ( 24 h ) 40 ( 21 ) 39 ( 28 ) 37 ( 21 ) 24 ( 26 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 51 ( 28 ) 49 ( 23 ) 56 ( 22 ) 32 ( 25 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 56 ( 13 ) 58 ( 19 ) 60 ( 18 ) 37 ( 23 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 68 ( 18 ) 73 ( 9 ) 74 ( 14 ) 61 ( 14 ) VASP - PRI ( % ) [ 2 ] 300 mg ( 24 h ) 73 ( 12 ) 68 ( 16 ) 78 ( 12 ) 91 ( 12 ) 600 mg ( 24 h ) 51 ( 20 ) 48 ( 20 ) 56 ( 26 ) 85 ( 14 ) 75 mg ( Day 5 ) 40 ( 9 ) 39 ( 14 ) 50 ( 16 ) 83 ( 13 ) 150 mg ( Day 5 ) 20 ( 10 ) 24 ( 10 ) 29 ( 11 ) 61 ( 18 ) Values are mean ( SD ) [ 1 ] Inhibition of platelet aggregation with 5 mcM ADP ; larger value indicates greater platelet inhibition [ 2 ] Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein – platelet reactivity index ; smaller value indicates greater platelet inhibition Some published studies suggest that intermediate metabolizers have decreased active metabolite exposure and diminished antiplatelet effects .
The relationship between CYP2C19 genotype and clopidogrel treatment outcome was evaluated in retrospective analyses of clopidogrel - treated subjects in CHARISMA ( n = 2428 ) and TRITON - TIMI 38 ( n = 1477 ) , and in several published cohort studies .
In TRITON - TIMI 38 and the majority of the cohort studies , the combined group of patients with either intermediate or poor metabolizer status had a higher rate of cardiovascular events ( death , myocardial infarction , and stroke ) or stent thrombosis compared to extensive metabolizers .
In CHARISMA and one cohort study , the increased event rate was observed only in poor metabolizers .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of tumorigenicity when clopidogrel was administered for 78 weeks to mice and 104 weeks to rats at dosages up to 77 mg / kg per day , which afforded plasma exposures > 25 times that in humans at the recommended daily dose of 75 mg .
Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in four in vitro tests ( Ames test , DNA - repair test in rat hepatocytes , gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , and metaphase chromosome analysis of human lymphocytes ) and in one in vivo test ( micronucleus test by oral route in mice ) .
Clopidogrel was found to have no effect on fertility of male and female rats at oral doses up to 400 mg / kg per day ( 52 times the recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Coronary Syndrome CURE The CURE study included 12 , 562 patients with ACS without ST - elevation ( UA or NSTEMI ) and presenting within 24 hours of onset of the most recent episode of chest pain or symptoms consistent with ischemia .
Patients were required to have either ECG changes compatible with new ischemia ( without ST - elevation ) or elevated cardiac enzymes or troponin I or T to at least twice the upper limit of normal .
The patient population was largely Caucasian ( 82 % ) and included 38 % women , and 52 % patients ≥ 65 years of age .
Patients were randomized to receive clopidogrel ( 300 - mg loading dose followed by 75 mg once daily ) or placebo , and were treated for up to one year .
Patients also received aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) and other standard therapies such as heparin .
The use of GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors was not permitted for three days prior to randomization .
The number of patients experiencing the primary outcome ( CV death , MI , or stroke ) was 582 ( 9 . 3 % ) in the clopidogrel - treated group and 719 ( 11 . 4 % ) in the placebo - treated group , a 20 % relative risk reduction ( 95 % CI of 10 % – 28 % ; p < 0 . 001 ) for the clopidogrel - treated group ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Outcome Events in the CURE Primary Analysis Outcome Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) [ 1 ] Placebo ( + aspirin ) null Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) ( n = 6259 ) ( n = 6303 ) ( 95 % CI ) Primary outcome ( Cardiovascular death , MI , stroke ) 582 ( 9 . 3 % ) 719 ( 11 . 4 % ) 20 % ( 10 . 3 , 27 . 9 ) p < 0 . 001 All Individual Outcome Events : [ 2 ] CV death 318 ( 5 . 1 % ) 345 ( 5 . 5 % ) 7 % ( - 7 . 7 , 20 . 6 ) MI 324 ( 5 . 2 % ) 419 ( 6 . 6 % ) 23 % ( 11 . 0 , 33 . 4 ) Stroke 75 ( 1 . 2 % ) 87 ( 1 . 4 % ) 14 % ( - 17 . 7 , 36 . 6 ) [ 1 ] Other standard therapies were used as appropriate .
[ 2 ] The individual components do not represent a breakdown of the primary and co - primary outcomes , but rather the total number of subjects experiencing an event during the course of the study .
Most of the benefit of clopidogrel occurred in the first two months , but the difference from placebo was maintained throughout the course of the trial ( up to 12 months ) ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In CURE , the use of clopidogrel was associated with a lower incidence of CV death , MI or stroke in patient populations with different characteristics , as shown in Figure 3 .
The benefits associated with cloppdogrel were independent of the use of other acute and long - term cardiovascular therapies , including heparin / LMWH , intravenous glycoprotein IIb / IIIa ( GPIIb / IIIa ) inhibitors , lipid - lowering drugs , beta - blockers , and ACE - inhibitors .
The efficacy of clopidogrel was observed independently of the dose of aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) .
The use of oral anticoagulants , non - study anti - platelet drugs , and chronic NSAIDs was not allowed in CURE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The use of clopidogrel in CURE was associated with a decrease in the use of thrombolytic therapy ( 71 patients [ 1 . 1 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 126 patients [ 2 . 0 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 43 % ) , and GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors ( 369 patients [ 5 . 9 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 454 patients [ 7 . 2 % ] in the placebo group , relative risk reduction of 18 % ) .
The use of clopidogrel in CURE did not affect the number of patients treated with CABG or PCI ( with or without stenting ) , ( 2253 patients [ 36 . 0 % ] in the clopidogrel group , 2324 patients [ 36 . 9 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 4 . 0 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] COMMIT In patients with STEMI , the safety and efficacy of clopidogrel were evaluated in the randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind study , COMMIT .
COMMIT included 45 , 852 patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of the symptoms of myocardial infarction with supporting ECG abnormalities ( i . e . , ST - elevation , ST - depression or left bundle - branch block ) .
Patients were randomized to receive clopidogrel ( 75 mg once daily ) or placebo , in combination with aspirin ( 162 mg per day ) , for 28 days or until hospital discharge , whichever came first .
The primary endpoints were death from any cause and the first occurrence of re - infarction , stroke or death .
The patient population included 28 % women , 58 % age ≥ 60 years ( 26 % age ≥ 70 years ) , 55 % patients who received thrombolytics , 68 % who received ACE - inhibitors , and only 3 % who underwent PCI .
As shown in Table 5 and Figure 4 and Figure 5 below , clopidogrel significantly reduced the relative risk of death from any cause by 7 % ( p = 0 . 029 ) , and the relative risk of the combination of re - infarction , stroke or death by 9 % ( p = 0 . 002 ) .
Table 5 : Outcome Events in the COMMIT Analysis Event Clopidogrel ( + aspirin ) ( N = 22961 ) Placebo ( + aspirin ) ( N = 22891 ) Odds ratio ( 95 % CI ) p - value Composite endpoint : Death , MI , or Stroke [ 1 ] 2121 ( 9 . 2 % ) 2310 ( 10 . 1 % ) 0 . 91 ( 0 . 86 , 0 . 97 ) 0 . 002 Death 1726 ( 7 . 5 % ) 1845 ( 8 . 1 % ) 0 . 93 ( 0 . 87 , 0 . 99 ) 0 . 029 Non - fatal MI [ 2 ] 270 ( 1 . 2 % ) 330 ( 1 . 4 % ) 0 . 81 ( 0 . 69 , 0 . 95 ) 0 . 011 Non - fatal Stroke null 127 ( 0 . 6 % ) 142 ( 0 . 6 % ) 0 . 89 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 13 ) 0 . 33 [ 1 ] The difference between the composite endpoint and the sum of death + non - fatal MI + non - fatal stroke indicates that 9 patients ( 2 clopidogrel and 7 placebo ) suffered both a non - fatal stroke and a non - fatal MI .
[ 2 ] Non - fatal MI and non - fatal stroke exclude patients who died ( of any cause ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The effect of clopidogrel did not differ significantly in various pre - specified subgroups as shown in Figure 6 .
The effect was also similar in non - prespecified subgroups including those based on infarct location , Killip class or prior MI history ( see Figure 7 ) .
Such subgroup analyses should be interpreted cautiously .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Recent Myocardial Infarction , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease CAPRIE The CAPRIE trial was a 19 , 185 - patient , 304 - center , international , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group study comparing clopidogrel ( 75 mg daily ) to aspirin ( 325 mg daily ) .
The patients randomized had : 1 ) recent histories of myocardial infarction ( within 35 days ) ; 2 ) recent histories of ischemic stroke ( within 6 months ) with at least a week of residual neurological signs ; or 3 ) established peripheral arterial disease .
Patients received randomized treatment for an average of 1 . 6 years ( maximum of 3 years ) .
The trial ' s primary outcome was the time to first occurrence of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new myocardial infarction ( fatal or not ) , or other vascular death .
Deaths not easily attributable to nonvascular causes were all classified as vascular .
Table 6 : Outcome Events in the CAPRIE Primary Analysis Clopidogrel aspirin Patients n = 9599 n = 9586 Ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) 438 ( 4 . 6 % ) 461 ( 4 . 8 % ) MI ( fatal or not ) 275 ( 2 . 9 % ) 333 ( 3 . 5 % ) Other vascular death 226 ( 2 . 4 % ) 226 ( 2 . 4 % ) Total 939 ( 9 . 8 % ) 1020 ( 10 . 6 % ) As shown in Table 6 , clopidogrel was associated with a lower incidence of outcome events , primarily MI .
The overall relative risk reduction ( 9 . 8 % vs . 10 . 6 % ) was 8 . 7 % , p = 0 . 045 .
Similar results were obtained when all - cause mortality and all - cause strokes were counted instead of vascular mortality and ischemic strokes ( risk reduction 6 . 9 % ) .
In patients who survived an on - study stroke or myocardial infarction , the incidence of subsequent events was lower in the clopidogrel group .
The curves showing the overall event rate are shown in Figure 8 .
The event curves separated early and continued to diverge over the 3 - year follow - up period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The statistical significance favoring clopidogrel over aspirin was marginal ( p = 0 . 045 ) .
However , because aspirin is itself effective in reducing cardiovascular events in patients with recent myocardial infarction or stroke , the effect of clopidogrel is substantial .
The CAPRIE trial included a population that was randomized on the basis of 3 entry criteria .
The efficacy of clopidogrel relative to aspirin was heterogeneous across these randomized subgroups ( p = 0 . 043 ) .
It is not clear whether this difference is real or a chance occurrence .
Although the CAPRIE trial was not designed to evaluate the relative benefit of clopidogrel over aspirin in the individual patient subgroups , the benefit appeared to be strongest in patients who were enrolled because of peripheral vascular disease ( especially those who also had a history of myocardial infarction ) and weaker in stroke patients .
In patients who were enrolled in the trial on the sole basis of a recent myocardial infarction , clopiodgrel was not numerically superior to aspirin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 Lack of Established Benefit of Clopidogrel plus Aspirin in Patients with Multiple Risk Factors or Established Vascular Disease CHARISMA The CHARISMA trial was a 15 , 603 subject , randomized , double - blind , parallel group study comparing clopiodgrel ( 75 mg daily ) to placebo for prevention of ischemic events in patients with vascular disease or multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis .
All subjects were treated with aspirin 75 – 162 mg daily .
The mean duration of treatment was 23 months .
The study failed to demonstrate a reduction in the occurrence of the primary endpoint , a composite of CV death , MI , or stroke .
A total of 534 ( 6 . 9 % ) patients in the clopidogrel group versus 573 ( 7 . 4 % ) patients in the placebo group experienced a primary outcome event ( p = 0 . 22 ) .
Bleeding of all severities was more common in the subjects randomized to clopidogrel .
15 REFERENCES 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clopidogrel Tablets , USP 75 mg tablets are available as pink , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets engraved " APO ' on one side and " CL " over " 75 " on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 30 Bottles of 90 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 90 Bottles of 100 , NDC 62034 - 015 - 01 Carton of 100 ( 10 x 10 Blister Pack ) NDC 62034 - 015 - 77 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See Medication Guide ( 17 . 6 ) ] 17 . 1 Benefits and Risks • • Summarize the effectiveness features and potential side effects of clopidogrel .
• • Tell patients to take clopidogrel exactly as prescribed .
• • Remind patients not to discontinue clopidogrel without first discussing it with the physician who prescribed clopidogrel .
17 . 2 Bleeding Inform patients that they : • • will bruise and bleed more easily .
• • will take longer than usual to stop bleeding .
• • should report any unanticipated , prolonged , or excessive bleeding , or blood in their stool or urine .
17 . 3 Other Signs and Symptoms Requiring Medical Attention • • Inform patients that TTP is a rare but serious condition that has been reported with Clopidogrel and other drugs in this class of drugs .
• • Instruct patients to get prompt medical attention if they experience any of the following symptoms that cannot otherwise be explained : fever , weakness , extreme skin paleness , purple skin patches , yellowing of the skin or eyes , or neurological changes .
17 . 4 Invasive Procedures Instruct patients to : • • inform physicians and dentists that they are taking Clopiodgrel before any invasive procedure is scheduled .
• • tell the doctor performing the invasive procedure to talk to the prescribing health care professional before stopping Clopidogrel .
17 . 5 Concomitant Medications Ask patients to list all prescription medications , over - the - counter medications , or dietary supplements they are taking or plan to take , including prescription or over - the - counter proton pump inhibitors ( e . g . , omeprazole ) , warfarin or NSAIDs , [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
BLENHEIM PHARMACAL INC .
CLOPIDOGREL TABLETS , USP 75 mg Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Marketed / Packaged by : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida North Blenheim , NY Canada M9L 1T9 33326 12131 , ( USA ) Revised : January 2014 Rev . 19 17 . 6 MEDICATION GUIDE Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets , USP 75 mg ( kloe pid ’ oh grel bye sul ’ fate ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
• 1 .
Clopidogrel bisulfate tablets may not work as well in people who : • • have certain genetic factors that affect how the body breaks down clopidogrel .
Your doctor may do genetic tests to make sure clopidogdrel is right for you .
• • take certain medicines , especially omeprazole ( Prilosec ® ) or esomeprazole ( Nexium ® ) .
Your doctor may change the medicine you take for stomach acid problems while you take clopiodgrel .
• 2 .
Clopiodgrel bisulfate tablets can cause bleeding which can be serious and can sometimes lead to death .
Clopidogrel is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
While you take clopiodgrel : • • you may bruise and bleed more easily • • you are more likely to have nose bleeds • • it will take longer for any bleeding to stop Call your doctor right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of bleeding : • • unexpected bleeding or bleeding that lasts a long time • • blood in your urine ( pink , red or brown urine ) • • red or black stools ( looks like tar ) • • bruises that happen without a known cause or get larger • • cough up blood or blood clots • • vomit blood or your vomit looks like coffee grounds Do not stop taking clopidogrel bisulfate tablets without talking to the doctor who prescribes it for you .
People who are treated with a stent , and stop taking clopidogrel too soon , have a higher risk of getting a blood clot on the stent , having a heart attack , or dying .
If you must stop clopidogrel bisulfate tablets because of bleeding , your risk of a heart attack may be higher .
What is Clopidogrel Bisulfate ?
Clopidogrel Bisulate Tablets is a prescription medicine used to treat people who have any of the following : • • chest pain due to heart problems • • poor circulation in their legs ( peripheral arterial disease ) • • a heart attack • • a stroke Clopidogrel bisulfate tablets is used alone or with aspirin to lower your chance of having another serious problem with your heart or blood vessels such as heart attack , stroke , or blood clot that can lead to death .
Platelets are blood cells that help your blood clot normally .
Clopidogrel helps to prevent platelets from sticking together and forming a clot that can block an artery .
It is not known if clopidogrel is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
Do not take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets if you : • • currently have a condition that causes bleeding , such as a stomach ulcer • • are allergic to clopidogrel or other ingredients in clopidogrel bisulfate tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in clopidogrel bisulfate tablets .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
Before you take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets , tell your doctor if you : • • have a history of bowel ( gastrointestinal ) or stomach ulcers • • have a history of bleeding problems • • plan to have surgery or a dental procedure .
See " How should I take Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ? "
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if clopidogrel will harm your unborn baby • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if clopidogrel passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take clopidogrel or breastfeed .
You should not do both without talking to your doctor .
• • have had an allergy or reaction to any medicine used to treat your disease .
Tell all of your doctors and your dentist that you are taking clopidogrel bisulfate tablets .
They should talk to the doctor who prescribed clopidogrel for you before you have any surgery or invasive procedure .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription , non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Clopidogrel Bisulfate tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how clopidogrel bisulfate tablets works .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ? "
Taking clopidogrel bisulfate tablets with certain other medicines may increase your risk of bleeding .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • aspirin , especially if you have had a stroke .
Always talk to your doctor about whether you should take aspirin along with clopidogrel to treat your condition .
• • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of NSAID medicines if you are not sure .
• • warfarin ( Coumadin ® , Jantoven ® ) • • selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of SSRI or SNRI medicines if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
• • Take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• • Do not change your dose or stop taking clopiodgrel bisulfate tablets without talking to your doctor first .
Stopping clopiodgrel bisulfate tablets may increase your risk of heart attack or stroke .
• • Take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets with aspirin as instructed by your doctor .
• • You can take clopiodgrel bisulfate tablets with or without food .
• • If you miss a dose , take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses of clopidogrel bisulfate tablets at the same time unless your doctor tells you to .
• • If you take too much clopidogrel bisulfate tablets , call your doctor or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
• • Talk with your doctor about stopping your clopidogrel bisulfate tablets before you have surgery .
Your doctor may tell you to stop taking clopidogrel bisulfate tablets at least 5 days before you have surgery to avoid excessive bleeding during surgery .
What are the possible side effects of Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
Clopidogrel bisulfate tablets can cause serious side effects including : • • See " What is the most important information I should know about Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ? "
• • A blood clotting problem called Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( TTP ) .
TTP can happen with clopiodgrel , sometimes after a short time ( less than 2 weeks ) .
TTP is a blood clotting problem where blood clots form in blood vessels ; and can happen anywhere in the body .
TTP needs to be treated in a hospital right away , because it may cause death .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these symptoms and they cannot be explained by another medical condition : • • purplish spots ( called purpura ) on the skin or in the mouth ( mucous membranes ) due to bleeding under the skin • • your skin or the whites of your eyes are yellow ( jaundice ) • • you feel tired or weak • • your skin looks very pale • • fever • • fast heart rate or feeling short of breath • • headache • • speech changes • • confusion • • coma • • stroke • • seizure • • low amount of urine , or urine that is pink or has blood in it • • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea • • vision changes Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Tell your doctor if you develop an allergic reaction while taking clopidogrel tablets .
These are not all the possible side effects of clopidogrel bisulfate tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
• • Store clopidogrel bisulfate tablets at 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from moisture .
Keep Clopiodgrel Bisulfate Tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets Medicines are sometimes used for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not take clopidogrel bisulfate tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clopidogrel bisulfate tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about clopidogrel bisulfate tablets .
If you would like more information , talk to your doctor .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about clopidogrel bisulfate tablets that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , go to www . apotexcorp . com or call 1 - 800 - 667 - 4708 .
What are the ingredients in Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets ?
Active ingredient : clopidogrel bisulfate Inactive ingredients : Tablet : anhydrous lactose , methylcellulose , crospovidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , zinc stearate Film coating : hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , polytheylene glycol , titanium dioxide , red ferric oxide .
All registered trademarks in this document are the property of their respective owners .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Marketed / Packaged by : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida North Blenheim , NY Canada M9L 1T9 33326 12131 , ( USA ) Revised January 2014 Rev . 19 Coumadin ® is a registered trademark of Bristol - Myers Squibb Pharma Company .
Prilosec ® is a registered trademark of AstraZeneca .
Jantoven ® is a registered trademark of USL Pharma .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 75 mg 100 s Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) : Blenheim Pharmacal , Inc . NDC 62034 - 015 - 77 Clopidogrel Bisulfate Tablets , USP 75 mg Rx Carton of 100 ( 10 x 10 Blister Pack ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
