Rx only DESCRIPTION Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 % , is a sterile solution for ophthalmic administration having the following composition : Each mL contains : ACTIVE : Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate 10 mg ( 1 % ) [ equivalent to 9 . 1 mg / mL prednisolone phosphate ] in a buffered isotonic solution containing INACTIVES : Hypromellose , Monobasic and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Sodium Chloride , Edetate Disodium and Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may be added to adjust the pH ( 6 . 2 - 8 . 2 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
The chemical name for prednisolone sodium phosphate is Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - 21 - ( phosphonooxy ) - , disodium salt , ( 11 β ) - , which has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C21H27Na2O8P Molecular Weight : 484 . 39 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Prednisolone sodium phosphate causes inhibition of inflammatory response to inciting agents of mechanical , chemical , or immunological nature .
No generally accepted explanation of this steroid property has been advanced .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 % or 1 / 8 % is for the treatment of steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe , such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitis when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation , corneal injury from chemical , radiation , or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 % , is recommended for moderate to severe inflammations , particularly when unusually rapid control is desired .
In stubborn cases of anterior segment eye disease , systemic adrenocortical hormone therapy may be required .
When deeper ocular structures are involved , systemic therapy is necessary .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of this preparation is contraindicated in the presence of : 1 .
Acute superficial herpes simplex keratitis .
2 .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
3 .
Acute infectious stages of vaccinia , varicella and most other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
4 .
Tuberculosis of the eye .
5 .
Hypersensitivity to a component of this medication .
The use of this preparation is always contraindicated after uncomplicated removal of a superficial corneal foreign body .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO EYE - FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Employment of steroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex keratitis involving the stroma requires great caution ; frequent slit - lamp microscopy is mandatory .
Prolonged use may result in elevated intraocular pressure and / or glaucoma , damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , or may aid in the establishment of secondary ocular infections from pathogens liberated from ocular tissues .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforation has been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
Acute purulent untreated infection of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by presence of steroid medication .
Viral , bacterial , and fungal infections of the cornea may be exacerbated by the application of steroids .
This drug is not effective in mustard gas keratitis and Sjögren ’ s keratoconjuncitivitis .
If irritation persists or develops , the patient should be advised to discontinue use and consult prescribing physician .
PRECAUTIONS General : As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term steroid applications , fungus invasion must be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Usage in Pregnancy : Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with prednisolone sodium phosphate .
It is also not known whether prednisolone sodium phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Prednisolone sodium phosphate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
The effect of prednisolone sodium phosphate on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when prednisolone sodium phosphate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infections from pathogens including herpes simplex and fungi , and perforation of the globe .
Rarely , filtering blebs have been reported when topical steroids have been used following cataract surgery .
Rarely , stinging , or burning may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on the severity of inflammation , instill one or two drops of solution into the conjunctival sac up to every hour during the day and every two hours during the night as necessary as initial therapy .
When a favorable response is observed , reduce dosage to one drop every four hours .
Later , further reduction in dosage to one drop three to four times daily may suffice to control symptoms .
The duration of treatment will vary with the type of lesion and may extend from a few days to several weeks , according to therapeutic response .
Relapses , more common in chronic active lesions than in self - limited conditions , usually respond to retreatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is supplied in a plastic squeeze bottle with a white cap and a controlled drop tip in the following size : 10 mL bottle - NDC 24208 - 715 - 10 Storage : Store between 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Keep tightly closed .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA © 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : March 2020 9101405 ( Folded ) 9101505 ( Flat ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 24208 - 715 - 10 Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % ( Sterile ) FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Rx only 10 mL BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ]
