Drug Facts Active Ingredients : Ethanol 62 % Purpose : Antiseptic Uses : • For hand washing to decrease bacteria on skin • Recommended for repeated use Warnings : • Flammable , keep away from fire / flame • For external use only • Do not use in eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
• Stop use and contact a doctor if redness and irritation develops and persists for more than 72 hours .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact the Poison Control center right away .
Directions : • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • Do not use other than directed .
Other Information : • Store at room temperature 20 o - 25 oC ( 68 oF - 77 oF ) • May discolor certain fabrics .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified Water , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Essential Oil , Organic Aloe Barbadensis Leaf , Glycerin 99 . 9 % EFFECTIVE against most common germs clean hands now no parabens | no synthetic fragrances | no triclosan made with moisturizing ingredients Have fun , do good , stay safe .
Our 3 - pack Hand Sanitizer is perfect for backpacks , desks and cars .
No matter where you go , we have your hands covered .
Get back out there with everyone !
Real good stuff inside !
We say NOPE to fake fragrances , dyes and fillers .
And YEP to quality ingredients and plant extracts that are vegan and cruelty free .
Why ?
Because we believe in making good products that everyone can enjoy .
For us , that ' s botanical body care that ' s better for you and for the planet .
Smells like real lavender !
NOPE !
√ no animal testing √ no isopropyl alcohol or benzalkonium chloride √ no sketchy fillers √ no harsh chemicals √ no worries !
YEP !
√ plant - based moisturizers √ plant extracts + pure essential oils √ sugar cane - derived alcohol √ vegan + cruelty free √ bottle made from 25 % recycled plastic √ made with love !
EO ® PRODUCTS , LLC Small World Trading Co .
San Rafael , CA 94901 Made in the USA From Domestic and Globally Sourced Ingredients 800 - 570 - 3775 www . eoproducts . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
