WARNING • The expected response to Spherusol ® is a local area of inflammation at the site of the skin test .
The reaction is usually dime to quarter size reaching maximum diameter between 24 and 48 hours .
Larger accelerated reactions can occur , which may require treatment with local cold compresses and anti - inflammatory medication .
( 2 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Systemic reactions can occur with skin test antigens and in certain individuals these reactions may be life - threatening or cause death .
Emergency measures and personnel trained in their use should be immediately available .
Patients should be observed for at least 20 minutes following the administration of a skin test .
( 6 . 2 ) • Spherusol ® should never be given intravenously .
( 5 ) • To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Nielsen BioSciences , Inc . at ( 855 ) 855 - 1212 or MEDWATCH , Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) , 5600 Fishers Lane , Rockville , MD 20852 - 9782 .
Telephone : ( 800 ) 332 - 1088 or www . vaers . hhs . gov .
( 6 . 2 ) WARNING See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • The expected response to Spherusol ® is a local area of inflammation at the site of the skin test .
The reaction is usually dime to quarter size reaching maximum diameter between 24 and 48 hours .
Larger accelerated reactions can occur , which may require treatment with local cold compresses and anti - inflammatory medication .
( 2 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Systemic reactions can occur with skin test antigens and in certain individuals these reactions may be life - threatening or cause death .
Emergency measures and personnel trained in their use should be immediately available .
Patients should be observed for at least 20 minutes following the administration of a skin test .
( 5 . 3 , 6 . 2 ) • Spherusol ® should never be given intravenously .
( 5 ) • To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Nielsen BioSciences , Inc . at ( 855 ) 855 - 1212 or MEDWATCH , Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) , 5600 Fishers Lane , Rockville , MD 20852 - 9782 .
Telephone : ( 800 ) 332 - 1088 or www . vaers . hhs . gov .
( 6 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spherusol ® is a skin test antigen indicated for the detection of delayed - type hypersensitivity to Coccidioides immitis in individuals with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis .
Spherusol ® is approved for use in individuals 18 - 64 years of age .
• The use of Spherusol ® to detect delayed - type hypersensitivity responses in a general population with unknown exposure to C . immitis has not been evaluated .
• Persons with acute or disseminated coccidioidomycosis may not develop a delayed - type hypersensitivity response to Spherusol ® .
• Persons with immunodeficiency and a history of coccidioidomycosis may not develop a delayed - type hypersensitivity response to Spherusol ® .
• Spherusol ® is a skin test antigen indicated for the detection of delayed - type hypersensitivity to Coccidioides immitis in individuals with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis .
Spherusol ® is approved for use in individuals 18 - 64 years of age .
• The use of Spherusol ® to detect delayed - type hypersensitivity responses in a general population with unknown exposure to C . immitis has not been evaluated .
• Persons with acute or disseminated coccidioidomycosis may not develop a delayed - type hypersensitivity response to Spherusol ® .
• Persons with immunodeficiency and a history of coccidioidomycosis may not develop a delayed - type hypersensitivity response to Spherusol ® .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • A single 0 . 1 mL intradermal injection .
Induration at injection site to be evaluated 48 hours after administration .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Preparation for Administration Spherusol ® is a clear , colorless sterile solution for intradermal administration .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If any of these conditions exists , the skin test antigen should not be administered .
2 . 2 Administration : Spherusol ® is administered as a 0 . 1 mL dose by intradermal injection to the volar surface of the forearm using a tuberculin syringe ( 0 . 5 or 1 . 0 mL ) and a ½ inch 26 - 27 gauge needle .
The needle should be inserted bevel side up in the skin at a 15 - 20 degree angle .
Intradermal injection of 0 . 1 mL Spherusol ® will result in a bleb 5 - 10 mm in diameter at the injection site .
2 . 3 Skin Test Assessment The injection site should be assessed for induration at 48 hours ( ± 4 hours ) following administration .
The response to the skin test should be measured by taking the mean of the orthogonal diameters of the area of induration .
A mean induration of ≥ 5 mm is considered a positive delayed - type hypersensitivity response to Spherusol ® .
Repeat administration of Spherusol ® has not been evaluated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Spherusol ® is a solution for intradermal injection supplied in a 1 mL multi - dose vial .
Each 0 . 1 mL dose contains 1 . 27 mcg of spherule - derived Coccidioides immitis antigen .
• Multi - dose vial ( 1 mL ) containing a solution of spherule - derived C . immitis antigen , 1 . 27 mcg per 0 . 1 mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS A severe allergic reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to Spherusol ® , or any component of Spherusol ® or other coccidioidin products is a contraindication to administration .
• Severe allergic reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to Spherusol ® , or any component of Spherusol ® or other coccidioidin products .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Acute hypersensitivity reactions and anaphylaxis have occurred following the administration of other skin test antigens and may occur in individuals following the administration of Spherusol ® .
( 5 . 1 ) • Patients receiving beta - blocking drugs may be refractive to the usual dose of epinephrine in cases of hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 2 ) • Any condition or agent that impairs or attenuates delayed type hypersensitivity reactions , including infections and use of immunosuppressive drugs , can potentially cause a false negative reaction to Spherusol ® .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Prevention and Management of Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions Prior to administration , the healthcare provider should review the medical history for possible skin test sensitivity and previous skin test related adverse reactions to assess the risks and benefits .
Immediate hypersensitivity , to include severe systemic reactions , may occur following administration of skin test antigens .
Medications and equipment to manage possible anaphylactic reactions should be available for immediate use .
Patients should be observed for a minimum of 30 minutes following administration to assess for adverse reactions .
5 . 2 Patients on Beta Blockers Patients receiving beta blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat serious systemic reactions , including anaphylaxis .
5 . 3 Immunosuppression Any condition or agent that impairs or attenuates delayed - type hypersensitivity reactions , including infections and use of immunosuppressive drugs , can potentially cause a false negative reaction to Spherusol ® .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most commonly reported local adverse reactions were itching and swelling ( > 75 % ) and pain ( > 15 % ) within 7 days of administration .
( 6 . 1 ) • To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Nielsen Biosciences , Inc . at ( 855 ) 855 - 1212 or Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) at 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 or www . vaers . hhs . gov .
( 6 . 3 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a skin test antigen cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another skin test antigen , and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
As with any skin test antigen , there is the possibility that broad use of Spherusol ® could reveal adverse reactions not observed in clinical trials .
In a double - blinded placebo - controlled clinical trial conducted in areas of the U . S . endemic for C . immitis ( Bakersfield , CA and Tucson , AZ ) , 54 adults ( 23 - 64 years of age ) with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis of at least 45 days duration , diagnosed by clinical findings , radiography and serological and / or mycological evidence of the disease , received a single dose of Spherusol ® concomitantly with two licensed skin test extracts ( Candin ® and Trichophyton ) and two controls ( product diluent [ thimerosal ≤ 0 . 0001 % ] and saline ) .
Each intradermal injection of 0 . 1 mL of reagent was given at pre - determined sites on the right and left forearms .
Solicited local adverse reactions and systemic adverse events occurring within 7 days after injection were recorded by study subjects via diary card .
These events were also recorded on case report forms ( CRFs ) by study personnel during clinical visits 48 hours and 7 days following injections .
Diary cards and CRFs did not record solicited local reactions by specific site .
Local adverse reactions and systemic adverse events that occurred within 7 days were monitored until resolution .
Reports of unsolicited adverse events and serious adverse events that occurred within 7 days after administration were collected on the diary cards or reported at study visits .
Table 1 lists the percentage of subjects reporting solicited local reactions ( at any site ) and solicited systemic adverse events within 7 days following the administration of Spherusol ® , Candin ® , Trichophyton , diluent control and placebo control .
Table 1 .
Frequency of Solicited Local Reactions and Systemic Adverse Events within 7 days of Administration of Spherusol ® , Candin ® , Trichophyton , Diluent Control and Saline Control in Subjects with a History of Pulmonary Coccidioidomycosis ( N = 53 ) Symptom Frequency ( % ) Local ∗ Any Mild Moderate Severe Itching 85 36 47 2 Swelling 79 36 41 2 Pain 17 13 4 0 Necrosis / Ulceration 4 2 0 2 Systemic Increased heart rate 4 2 2 0 Weakness 6 2 4 0 Faintness 0 0 0 0 Dizziness 2 2 0 0 Nausea / cramps 2 2 0 0 Flu - like symptoms 7 2 6 0 Difficulty breathing / shortness of breath 0 0 0 0 Any = Percentage of subjects experiencing adverse event of any intensity ; Mild = Barely noticeable , not bothersome ; Moderate = Distinctly noticeable discomfort ; Severe = Needs medical attention .
∗ Local reactions occurring at any injection site Of subjects with severe reactions , one subject required treatment with oral corticosteroids for ulceration and swelling .
Based on investigator ' s determination the reaction was at the site of Trichophyton injection .
All severe reactions resolved without sequelae .
During the 7 days following administration two subjects reported unsolicited adverse events : one subject reported joint pain , fatigue , cough , sensitivity at a test site ( test site not specified ) , and one subject with erythema immediately after administration ( test site not specified ) .
The intensities of these unsolicited adverse events were not recorded .
No serious adverse events or deaths were reported during the clinical study .
6 . 2 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Nielsen BioSciences , Inc . at ( 855 ) 855 - 1212 or MEDWATCH , Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) , 5600 Fishers Lane , Rockville , MD 20852 - 9782 .
Telephone : ( 800 ) 332 - 1088 or www . vaers . hhs . gov .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents may suppress the response to the skin test .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Corticosteroids and Immunosuppressives Corticosteroids and Immunosuppressive agents may suppress the response to the skin test .
Pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids may suppress the response to skin test antigens after two weeks of therapy .
The mechanism of suppression is thought to involve a decrease in monocytes and lymphocytes , particularly T - cells .
The normal DTH response usually returns to pre - treatment levels within several weeks after steroid therapy is discontinued .
( 5 ) The use of Spherusol ® has not been evaluated during or following the use of corticosteroids or immunosuppressive agents .
7 . 2 Antifungal Medications It is not known if concurrent treatment with antifungal medications interferes with delayed - type hypersensitivity responses to Spherusol ® in patients with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • The safety and effectiveness of Spherusol ® in pregnant and nursing women have not been established .
( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy The safety and effectiveness of Spherusol ® in pregnant women have not been established .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Spherusol ® .
It is also not known whether Spherusol ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or affect reproduction capacity .
Spherusol ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery No information is available to assess the effects of Spherusol ® on childbirth .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers The safety and effectiveness of Spherusol ® in nursing women have not been established .
It is not known whether Spherusol ® is excreted in human milk .
However , because the potential exists for Spherusol ® to be excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when administering Spherusol ® to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Spherusol ® in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Spherusol ® have not been established in individuals > 65 years of age .
11 DESCRIPTION Spherusol ® is a sterile aqueous solution of extracts of C . immitis spherules .
The multi - dose vial contains 0 . 9 % sodium chloride and 0 . 014 % sodium borate with 0 . 4 % phenol as a preservative .
Residual thimerosal from the manufacturing process is present at a concentration of ≤ 0 . 0001 % ( < 0 . 05 mcg mercury / 0 . 1 mL dose ) .
Each 0 . 1 mL dose contains 1 . 27 mcg of spherule - derived antigen .
The potency of each lot of Spherusol ® is determined in sensitized guinea pigs .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In individuals with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis Spherusol ® is thought to elicit a cellular immune reaction to C . immitis , as evidenced by a delayed - type hypersensitivity ( DTH ) response to Coccidioidin ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ) .
The general mechanism of the DTH response is based on the interaction of antigen with CD 4 and CD 8 lymphocytes followed by the secretion of interleukins and other lymphokines from macrophage cells .
The release of effector molecules causes endothelial cells lining the blood vessels to become permeable and allows fibrinogen to escape into the surrounding tissue where it is converted to fibrin .
The deposition of fibrin and the accumulation of T - cells and monocytes within the extracellular spaces cause the tissue to swell and become indurated .
This process is usually detectable in 18 hours and peaks at 48 hours .
( 5 ) 14 CLINICAL STUDIES The delayed - type hypersensitivity response following administration of Spherusol ® was evaluated in one U . S . study which enrolled persons with a history of coccidioidomycosis .
Two further U . S . studies enrolled subjects without a history of coccidioidomycosis ; in one of these studies subjects had a history of histoplasmosis .
In each study , concomitant with Spherusol ® , two additional skin test extracts , Candin ® and Trichophyton ( positive controls ) , were administered along with a saline ( negative control ) and a diluent containing ≤ 0 . 0001 % thimerosal ( negative control ) .
All skin tests and controls were administered as 0 . 1 mL doses in a randomized pattern on the volar surface of the forearms .
Investigators and subjects were blinded to identity and placement of skin test antigens and controls .
Responses were read at 48 hours ( ± 4 hours ) following administration .
Induration responses were measured for each test site and recorded as the mean of the orthogonal diameters .
A positive skin test was defined as a mean induration of ≥ 5 mm at 48 hours following administration of the antigens or controls .
For each subject Spherusol ® skin test results were considered valid if ≥ 5 mm was observed at the positive control antigen sites and no induration ≥ 5 mm was observed at the negative control sites .
The use of Spherusol ® to detect delayed - type hypersensitivity response in a general population with unknown exposure to C . immitis has not been evaluated .
14 . 1 Induration Response in Subjects With a History of Pulmonary Coccidioidomycosis A multicenter , double - blinded study in endemic areas ( Bakersfield , CA and Tucson , AZ ) enrolled 54 adults with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis diagnosed by radiography , laboratory serologies ( e . g . , complement fixation , immunodiffusion ) and / or culture .
Subjects were 23 - 64 years of age ; 28 % women ; 70 % Caucasian , 11 % Hispanic , 2 % Asian , 2 % Native American and 4 % who did not specify race or ethnicity .
Of the 51 subjects with valid skin test results , 50 subjects [ 98 . 0 % ; 2 - sided 95 % CI ( 89 . 6 % , 100 % ) ] had a mean induration of ≥ 5 mm at the Spherusol ® injection site .
Among subjects with valid skin test results the average size of induration at the Spherusol ® injection site was 17 mm ( range 5 mm - 39 mm ) .
The receipt of concurrent or previous antifungal therapy did not appear to interfere with or accentuate the induration response to Spherusol ® .
14 . 2 Induration Response in Subjects Without a History of Pulmonary Coccidioidomycosis or Known Exposure to C . immitis .
A single site , double - blind study conducted in a non - endemic area for C . immitis ( Spokane , WA ) enrolled 60 adult subjects ( 18 - 56 years of age ) with no known exposure to C . immitis by travel to or residency in an endemic area .
Subjects had negative serologies to C . immitis by complement fixation , immunodiffusion and / or ELISA .
Subjects enrolled in the study were 65 % women ; 96 % Caucasian , 2 % Hispanic and 2 % Native American .
At the 48 hour ( ± 4 hours ) assessment , a total of 55 subjects had valid skin test results ( 5 subjects had negative skin test results to all reagents and were considered un - interpretable ) .
One subject ( 1 / 55 ) had a 5 mm mean induration response to Spherusol ® and 54 subjects with demonstrated negative responses ( < 5 mm mean induration ) to Spherusol ® .
Fifty - four of the 55 subjects with valid skin test responses [ 98 . 2 % ; 2 - sided 95 % CI ( 90 . 3 % , > 99 . 9 % ) ] demonstrated a negative induration response to Spherusol ® .
When the five subjects who had un - interpretable responses were analyzed as if these responses represented positive reactions to Spherusol ® , 54 of 60 subjects 90 . 0 % ( CI 79 . 5 % , 96 . 2 % ) demonstrated a negative induration response .
14 . 3 Induration Response in Subjects With a History of Pulmonary Histoplasmosis A single site , double - blind study conducted in a non - endemic area for C . immitis , but endemic for H . capsulatum ( Blair , NE ) enrolled 12 adult subjects ( 33 to 60 years of age ) with no known exposure to C . immitis by travel to or residency in an endemic area .
All subjects had a history of pulmonary Histoplasmosis .
Subjects had negative serologies to C . immitis by complement fixation , immunodiffusion and / or ELISA .
Subjects were 42 % women and 100 % Caucasian .
At the 48 hour ( ± 4 hours ) assessment , all 12 subjects reacted to at least one of the positive controls with ≥ 5 mm mean induration and demonstrated negative ( < 5 mm ) induration responses to thimerosal and saline controls .
No positive induration responses to Spherusol ® were observed [ 1 - sided 97 . 5 % CI ; ( 0 % , 26 . 5 % ) ] among subjects who had a previous history of disease caused by H . capsulatum and no history of travel to areas endemic for C . immitis .
These findings support the lack of cross - reaction between the cellular immune responses induced by the two fungal species .
15 REFERENCES • Edwards , PQ and Palmer CE .
Prevalence of sensitivity to coccodioidin , with special reference to specific and nonspecific reactions to coccidioidin .
Dis Chest .
31 : 35 .
35 - 60 , 1957 .
• Emmons , C . W . , Binford , C . H . , Ulz , J . P . Kwon - Chung , K . J . Medical Mycology , Leanne Febiger , Philadelphia , Chapter 17 , 230 , 1977 .
• Emmons CW and Olson BJ .
Studies of the role of fungi in pulmonary disease .
I . Cross - reactions with histoplasmin .
Pub Health Rep . 60 ( 47 ) : 1383 , 1945 .
• Levine HB , Restrepon A , Eyck DR , and Stevens DA .
Spherulin and coccidioidin : cross - reactions in dermal sensitivity to histoplasmin and paracoccidioidin .
Am J Epidemiol .
101 ( 6 ) : 512 , 1975 .
• Zweiman , B . Cell - mediated immunity in health and disease .
Allergy Principles and Practices , Mosby , Saint Louis , Chapter 50 : 696 , 1998 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Spherusol ® is available in 1 mL multidose vial .
NDC # 59584 - 140 - 01 : multi - dose vial .
Store refrigerated at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 35 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Discard if frozen .
Do not use after expiration date .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be : • Informed of the potential benefits and risks of skin testing with Spherusol ® .
• Instructed to report any adverse events to their healthcare provider .
PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial NDC 59584 - 140 - 01 Coccidioides immitis Spherule - Derived Skin Test Antigen Spherusol ® Vol : 1 mL ( 10 Tests ) Dose : 0 . 1 mL Intradermally See Package Insert Store : 2 - 8 ° C Rx only Preservative : 0 . 4 % Phenol Mfd for Nielsen BioSciences , Inc .
San Diego , CA . 92121 Lot : 000000 ( to be inserted vertically ) Exp : ( to be inserted vertically ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Carton Dose : 0 . 1 mL intradermally .
See circular .
( 1 st panel ) Contents : 1 mL multidose vial ( 10 tests ) Ingredients : Coccidioides immitis spherule - derived antigen , sodium chloride , sodium borate and phenol ( preservative ) in Water for Injection , USP .
Rx only .
Rev . 07 / 19 Coccidioides immitis Spherule - Derived Skin Test Antigen ( panel 2 ) Spherusol ® Skin Test Strength 1 . 27 mcg / 0 . 1 mL For use in assessing delayed - type hypersensitivity to Coccidioides immitis Nielsen BioSciences , Inc , U . S . License 1903 Mfd .
by : Allermed Laboratories , Inc .
U . S . License 0467 San Diego CA 92121 Potency : Measured by delayed - type intradermal skin tests in guinea pigs .
( panel 3 ) Storage : Store at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
No U . S . Standard of Potency .
2 D GS1 serialized barcode ( on end flap ) GTIN ( end flap ) SN ( end flap ) EXP ( end flap ) Lot ( end flap ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
