Rx Only DESCRIPTION Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is a red - orange liquid for topical application , containing the broad spectrum synthetic antifungal agent ketoconazole in a concentration of 2 % in an aqueous suspension .
It also contains : coconut fatty acid diethanolamide , disodium laureth sulfosuccinate , FD & C Red No . 40 , hydrochloric acid , imidurea , laurdimonium hydroxypropyl hydrolyzed collagen , PEG - 120 methyl glucose dioleate , purified water , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide , and sodium lauryl ether sulfate .
Ketoconazole is cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] piperazine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor is a non - contagious infection of the skin caused by Pityrosporumorbiculare ( Malasseziafurfur ) .
This commensal organism is part of the normal skin flora .
In susceptible individuals the condition is often recurrent and may give rise to hyperpigmented or hypopigmented patches on the trunk which may extend to the neck , arms and upper thighs .
Treatment of the infection may not immediately result in restoration of pigment to the affected sites .
Normalization of pigment following successful therapy is variable and may take months , depending on individual skin type and incidental skin exposure .
The rate of recurrence of infection is variable .
Ketoconazole was not detected in plasma in 39 patients who shampooed 4 - 10 times per week for 6 months , or in 33 patients who shampooed 2 - 3 times per week for 3 - 26 months ( mean : 16 months ) .
An exaggerated use washing test on the sensitive antecubital skin of 10 subjects twice daily for five consecutive days showed that the irritancy potential of ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % was significantly less than that of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide shampoo .
A human sensitization test , a phototoxicity study , and a photoallergy study conducted in 38 male and 22 female volunteers showed no contact sensitization of the delayed hypersensitivity type , no phototoxicity and no photoallergenic potential due to ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % .
Mode of Action - Interpretations of in vivo studies suggest that ketoconazole impairs the synthesis of ergosterol , which is a vital component of fungal cell membranes .
It is postulated , but not proven , that the therapeutic effect of ketoconazole in tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor is due to the reduction of Pityrosporumorbiculare ( Malasseziafurfur ) and that the therapeutic effect in dandruff is due to the reduction of Pityrosporumovale .
Support for the therapeutic effect in tinea versicolor comes from a three - arm , parallel , double - blind , placebo controlled study in patients who had moderately severe tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor .
Successful response rates in the primary efficacy population for each of both three - day and single - day regimens of ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % were statistically significantly greater ( 73 % and 69 % , respectively ) than a placebo regimen ( 5 % ) .
There had been mycological confirmation of fungal disease in all cases at baseline .
Mycological clearing rates were 84 % and 78 % , respectively , for the three - day and one - day regimens of the 2 % shampoo and 11 % in the placebo regimen .
While the differences in the rates of successful response between either of the two active treatments and placebo were statistically significant , the difference between the two active regimens was not .
Microbiology - Ketoconazole is a broad spectrum synthetic antifungal agent which inhibits the growth of the following common dermatophytes and yeasts by altering the permeability of the cell membrane : dermatophytes : Trichophytonrubrum , T . mentagrophytes , T . tonsurans , Microsporumcanis , M . audouini , M . gypseum and Epidermophytonfloccosum ; yeasts : Candida albicans , C . tropicalis , Pityrosporumovale ( Malasseziaovale ) and Pityrosporumorbiculare ( M . furfur ) .
Development of resistance by these microorganisms to ketoconazole has not been reported .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is indicated for the treatment of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor caused by or presumed to be caused by Pityrosporumorbiculare ( also known as Malasseziafurfur or M . orbiculare ) .
Note : Tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor may give rise to hyperpigmented or hypopigmented patches on the trunk which may extend to the neck , arms and upper thighs .
Treatment of the infection may not immediately result in normalization of pigment to the affected sites .
Normalization of pigment following successful therapy is variable and may take months , depending on individual skin type and incidental sun exposure .
Although tinea versicolor is not contagious , it may recur because the organism that causes the disease is part of the normal skin flora .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is contraindicated in persons who have known hypersensitivity to the active ingredient or excipients of this formulation .
PRECAUTIONS Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported during post - marketing use of ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % .
If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Information for Patients - Patients should be advised of the following : ● Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % may be irritating to mucous membranes of the eyes and contact with this area should be avoided .
● The following have been reported with the use of ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % : hair discoloration and abnormal hair texture , removal of the curl from permanently waved hair , itching , skin burning sensation and contact dermatitis , hypersensitivity , alopecia , rash , urticaria , skin irritation , dry skin , and application site reactions .
● Patients who develop allergic reactions , such as generalized rash , skin reactions , severe swelling , or shortness of breath should discontinue Ketoconzole Shampoo , 2 % and contact their physician immediately .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of ketoconzole shampoo , 2 % have not been conducted .
A long - term feeding study of ketoconazole in Swiss Albino mice and in Wistar rats showed no evidence of oncogenic activity .
The dominant lethal mutation test in male and female mice revealed that single oral doses of ketoconazole as high as 80 mg / kg were not genotoxic .
The Ames Salmonella microsomal activator assay was also negative .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C - There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketoconazole should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In humans , ketoconazole is not detected in plasma after chronic shampooing on the scalp .
Ketoconazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( syndactylia and oligodactylia ) in the rat when given orally in the diet at 80 mg / kg / day ( a dose 10 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ) .
However , these effects may be related to maternal toxicity , which was seen at this and higher dose levels .
Nursing Mothers - There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in nursing women .
Ketoconazole is not detected in plasma after chronic shampooing on the scalp .
Caution should be exercised when Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 11 double - blind trials in 264 patients using ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % for the treatment of dandruff or seborrheic dermatitis , an increase in normal hair loss and irritation occurred in less than 1 % of patients .
In three open - label safety trials in which 41 patients shampooed 4 - 10 times weekly for six months , the following adverse experiences each occurred once : abnormal hair texture , scalp pustules , mild dryness of the skin , and itching .
As with other shampoos , oiliness and dryness of hair and scalp have been reported .
In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in which patients with tinea versicolor were treated with either a single application of ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % ( n = 106 ) , a daily application for three consecutive days ( n = 107 ) , or placebo ( n = 105 ) , drug - related adverse events occurred in 5 ( 5 % ) , 7 ( 7 % ) and 4 ( 4 % ) of patients , respectively .
The only events that occurred in more than one patient in any one of the three treatment groups were pruritus , application site reaction , and dry skin ; none of these events occurred in more than 3 % of the patients in any one of the three groups .
In worldwide experience with ketoconazole shampoo , 2 % there have been reports of hair discoloration and abnormal hair texture , itching , skin burning sensation , contact dermatitis , hypersensitivity , angioedema , alopecia , rash , urticaria , skin irritation , dry skin , and application site reactions .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
OVERDOSAGE Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is intended for external use only .
In the event of accidental ingestion , supportive measures should be employed .
Induced emesis and gastric lavage should usually be avoided .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply the shampoo to the damp skin of the affected area and a wide margin surrounding this area .
Lather , leave in place for 5 minutes , and then rinse off with water .
One application of the shampoo should be sufficient .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % is a red - orange liquid and is available as follows : 4 fl .
oz .
( 120 mL ) nonbreakable plastic bottle ( NDC 53217 - 015 - 01 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Made in Israel Manufactured By Perrigo Yeruham 80500 , Israel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Rev . 01 / 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Rx Only Ketoconazole Shampoo , 2 % For Topical Application Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
