DESCRIPTION Lorazepam , an antianxiety agent , has the chemical formula , 7 - chloro - 5 - ( o - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
Its molecular formula is C15H10Cl2N2O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MW : 321 . 16 It is a white to practically white , practically odorless powder .
It is insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform .
Each tablet , to be taken orally , contains 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , or 2 mg of lorazepam , USP .
The inactive ingredients present are lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and polacrilin potassium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Studies in healthy volunteers show that in single high doses lorazepam has a tranquilizing action on the central nervous system with no appreciable effect on the respiratory or cardiovascular systems .
Lorazepam is readily absorbed with an absolute bioavailability of 90 percent .
Peak concentrations in plasma occur approximately 2 hours following administration .
The peak plasma level of lorazepam from a 2 mg dose is approximately 20 ng / mL .
The mean half - life of unconjugated lorazepam in human plasma is about 12 hours and for its major metabolite , lorazepam glucuronide , about 18 hours .
At clinically relevant concentrations , lorazepam is approximately 85 % bound to plasma proteins .
Lorazepam is rapidly conjugated at its 3 - hydroxy group into lorazepam glucuronide which is then excreted in the urine .
Lorazepam glucuronide has no demonstrable CNS activity in animals .
The plasma levels of lorazepam are proportional to the dose given .
There is no evidence of accumulation of lorazepam on administration up to six months .
Studies comparing young and elderly subjects have shown that advancing age does not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lorazepam .
However , in one study involving single intravenous doses of 1 . 5 to 3 mg of lorazepam injection , mean total body clearance of lorazepam decreased by 20 % in 15 elderly subjects of 60 to 84 years of age compared to that in 15 younger subjects of 19 to 38 years of age .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam tablets , USP are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of lorazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with - hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to any components of the formulation .
- acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS Pre - existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines including lorazepam .
Lorazepam is not recommended for use in patients with a primary depressive disorder or psychosis .
Use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants , may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Clinically Significant Drug Interactions ) .
Use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , may lead to physical and psychological dependence .
As with all patients on CNS - depressant drugs , patients receiving lorazepam should be warned not to operate dangerous machinery or motor vehicles and that their tolerance for alcohol and other CNS depressants will be diminished .
Physical And Psychological Dependence The use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , may lead to physical and psychological dependence .
The risk of dependence increases with higher doses and longer term use and is further increased in patients with a history of alcoholism or drug abuse or in patients with significant personality disorders .
The dependence potential is reduced when lorazepam is used at the appropriate dose for short - term treatment .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving lorazepam or other psychotropic agents .
In general , benzodiazepines should be prescribed for short periods only ( e . g . 2 to 4 weeks ) .
Extension of the treatment period should not take place without reevaluation of the need for continued therapy .
Continuous long - term use of product is not recommended .
Withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . rebound insomnia ) can appear following cessation of recommended doses after as little as one week of therapy .
Abrupt discontinuation of product should be avoided and a gradual dosage - tapering schedule followed after extended therapy .
Abrupt termination of treatment may be accompanied by withdrawal symptoms .
Symptoms reported following discontinuation of benzodiazepines include headache , anxiety , tension , depression , insomnia , restlessness , confusion , irritability , sweating , rebound phenomena , dysphoria , dizziness , derealization , depersonalization , hyperacusis , numbness / tingling of extremities , hypersensitivity to light , noise , and physical contact / perceptual changes , involuntary movements , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , loss of appetite , hallucinations / delirium , convulsions / seizures , tremor , abdominal cramps , myalgia , agitation , palpitations , tachycardia , panic attacks , vertigo , hyperreflexia , short - term memory loss , and hyperthermia .
Convulsions / seizures may be more common in patients with preexisting seizure disorders or who are taking other drugs that lower the convulsive threshold such as antidepressants .
There is evidence that tolerance develops to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines .
Lorazepam may have abuse potential , especially in patients with a history of drug and / or alcohol abuse .
PRECAUTIONS In patients with depression , a possibility for suicide should be borne in mind ; benzodiazepines should not be used in such patients without adequate antidepressant therapy .
Lorazepam should be used with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function ( e . g . COPD , sleep apnea syndrome ) .
Elderly or debilitated patients may be more susceptible to the sedative effects of lorazepam .
Therefore , these patients should be monitored frequently and have their dosage adjusted carefully according to patient response ; the initial dosage should not exceed 2 mg .
Paradoxical reactions have been occasionally reported during benzodiazepine use .
Such reactions may be more likely to occur in children and the elderly .
Should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
The usual precautions for treating patients with impaired renal and hepatic function should be observed .
As with all benzodiazepines , the use of lorazepam may worsen hepatic encephalopathy ; therefore , lorazepam should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency and / or encephalopathy .
Dosage for patients with severe hepatic insufficiency should be adjusted carefully according to patient response ; lower doses may be sufficient in such patients .
In patients where gastrointestinal or cardiovascular disorders coexist with anxiety , it should be noted that lorazepam has not been shown to be of significant benefit in treating the gastrointestinal or cardiovascular component .
Esophageal dilation occurred in rats treated with lorazepam for more than one year at 6 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose was 1 . 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of 10 mg per day ) .
The effect was reversible only when the treatment was withdrawn within two months of first observation of the phenomenon .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
However , use of lorazepam for prolonged periods and in geriatric patients requires caution , and there should be frequent monitoring for symptoms of upper G . I . disease .
Safety and effectiveness of lorazepam in children of less than 12 years have not been established .
Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of lorazepam , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
Essential Laboratory Tests Some patients on lorazepam have developed leukopenia , and some have had elevations of LDH .
As with other benzodiazepines , periodic blood counts and liver - function tests are recommended for patients on long - term therapy .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , produce increased CNS depressant effects when administered with other CNS depressants such as alcohol , barbiturates , antipsychotics , sedative / hypnotics , anxiolytics , antidepressants , narcotic analgesics , sedative antihistamines , anticonvulsants , and anesthetics .
Concomitant use of clozapine and lorazepam may produce marked sedation , excessive salivation , hypotension , ataxia , delirium , and respiratory arrest .
Concurrent administration of lorazepam with valproate results in increased plasma concentrations and reduced clearance of lorazepam .
Lorazepam dosage should be reduced to approximately 50 % when coadministered with valproate .
Concurrent administration of lorazepam with probenecid may result in a more rapid onset or prolonged effect of lorazepam due to increased half - life and decreased total clearance .
Lorazepam dosage needs to be reduced by approximately 50 % when coadministered with probenecid .
The effects of probenecid and valproate on lorazepam may be due to inhibition of glucuronidation .
Administration of theophylline or aminophylline may reduce the sedative effects of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis No evidence of carcinogenic potential emerged in rats during an 18 - month study with lorazepam .
No studies regarding mutagenesis have been performed .
Pregnancy Reproductive studies in animals were performed in mice , rats , and two strains of rabbits .
Occasional anomalies ( reduction of tarsals , tibia , metatarsals , malrotated limbs , gastroschisis , malformed skull , and microphthalmia ) were seen in drug - treated rabbits without relationship to dosage .
AIthough all of these anomalies were not present in the concurrent control group , they have been reported to occur randomly in historical controls .
At doses of 40 mg / kg and higher , there was evidence of fetal resorption and increased fetal loss in rabbits which was not seen at lower doses .
The clinical significance of the above findings is not known .
However , an increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because the use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , the use of lorazepam during this period should be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant , they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
In humans , blood levels obtained from umbilical cord blood indicate placental transfer of lorazepam and lorazepam glucuronide .
Infants of mothers who ingested benzodiazepines for several weeks or more preceding delivery have been reported to have withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Symptoms such as hypoactivity , hypotonia , hypothermia , respiratory depression , apnea , feeding problems , and impaired metabolic response to cold stress have been reported in neonates born of mothers who have received benzodiazepines during the late phase of pregnancy or at delivery .
Nursing Mothers Lorazepam has been detected in human breast milk ; therefore , it should not be administered to breast - feeding women , unless the expected benefit to the woman outweighs the potential risk to the infant .
Sedation and inability to suckle have occurred in neonates of lactating mothers taking benzodiazepines .
Infants of lactating mothers should be observed for pharmacological effects ( including sedation and irritability ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of lorazepam generally were not adequate to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently than younger subjects ; however , the incidence of sedation and unsteadiness was observed to increase with age ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Age does not appear to have a significant effect on lorazepam kinetics ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Clinical circumstances , some of which may be more common in the elderly , such as hepatic or renal impairment , should be considered .
Greater sensitivity ( e . g . , sedation ) of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , and lower doses may be sufficient in these patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions to benzodiazepines , including CNS effects and respiratory depression , are dose dependent , with more severe effects occurring with high doses .
In a sample of about 3500 patients treated for anxiety , the most frequent adverse reaction to lorazepam was sedation ( 15 . 9 % ) , followed by dizziness ( 6 . 9 % ) , weakness ( 4 . 2 % ) , and unsteadiness ( 3 . 4 % ) .
The incidence of sedation and unsteadiness increased with age .
Other adverse reactions to benzodiazepines , including lorazepam are fatigue , drowsiness , amnesia , memory impairment , confusion , disorientation , depression , unmasking of depression , disinhibition , euphoria , suicidal ideation / attempt , ataxia , asthenia , extrapyramidal symptoms , convulsions / seizures tremor , vertigo , eye - function / visual disturbance ( including diplopia and blurred vision ) , dysarthria / slurred speech , change in libido , impotence , decreased orgasm ; headache , coma ; respiratory depression , apnea , worsening of sleep apnea , worsening of obstructive pulmonary disease ; gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea , change in appetite , constipation , jaundice , increase in bilirubin , increase in liver transaminases , increase in alkaline phosphatase ; hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic / oid reactions ; dermatological symptoms , allergic skin reactions , alopecia ; SIADH , hyponatremia ; thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , pancytopenia ; hypothermia ; and autonomic manifestations .
Paradoxical reactions , including anxiety , excitation , agitation , hostility , aggression , rage , sleep disturbances / insomnia , sexual arousal , and hallucinations may occur .
Small decreases in blood pressure and hypotension may occur but are usually not clinically significant , probably being related to the relief of anxiety produced by lorazepam .
OVERDOSAGE In postmarketing experience , overdose with lorazepam has occurred predominantly in combination with alcohol and / or other drugs .
Therefore , in the management of overdosage , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
Symptoms Overdosage of benzodiazepines is usually manifested by varying degrees of central nervous system depression ranging from drowsiness to coma .
In mild cases , symptoms include drowsiness , mental confusion paradoxical reactions , dysarthria and lethargy .
In more serious cases , and especially when other drugs or alcohol were ingested , symptoms may include ataxia , hypotonia , hypotension , cardiovascular depression , respiratory depression , hypnotic state , coma , and death .
Management General supportive and symptomatic measures are recommended ; vital signs must be monitored and the patient closely observed .
When there is a risk of aspiration , induction of emesis is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic patients .
Administration of activated charcoal may also limit drug absorption .
Hypotension , though unlikely , usually may be controlled with norepinephrine bitartrate injection .
Lorazepam is poorly dialyzable .
Lorazepam glucuronide , the inactive metabolite , may be highly dialyzable .
The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil may be used in hospitalized patients as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam tablets , USP are administered orally .
For optimal results , dose , frequency of administration , and duration of therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
To facilitate this , 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , and 2 mg tablets are available .
The usual range is 2 to 6 mg / day given in divided doses , the largest dose being taken before bedtime , but the daily dosage may vary from 1 to 10 mg / day .
For anxiety , most patients require an initial dose of 2 to 3 mg / day given b . i . d . or t . i . d . For insomnia due to anxiety or transient situational stress , a single daily dose of 2 to 4 mg may be given , usually at bedtime .
For elderly or debilitated patients , an initial dosage of 1 to 2 mg / day in divided doses is recommended , to be adjusted as needed and tolerated .
The dosage of lorazepam should be increased gradually when needed to help avoid adverse effects .
When higher dosage is indicated , the evening dose should be increased before the daytime doses .
HOW SUPPLIED Lorazepam tablets , USP 0 . 5 mg , white to off - white , round , flat faced , beveled edged tablets , debossed with “ RX7 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63304 - 772 - 30 Bottles of 30 NDC 63304 - 772 - 90 Bottles of 90 NDC 63304 - 772 - 01 Bottles of 100 NDC 63304 - 772 - 05 Bottles of 500 NDC 63304 - 772 - 10 Bottles of 1000 Lorazepam tablets , USP 1 mg , white to off - white , round , flat faced , beveled edged tablets , debossed with “ RX ” above the bisect and “ 773 ” below the bisect on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63304 - 773 - 30 Bottles of 30 NDC 63304 - 773 - 90 Bottles of 90 NDC 63304 - 773 - 01 Bottles of 100 NDC 63304 - 773 - 05 Bottles of 500 NDC 63304 - 773 - 10 Bottles of 1000 Lorazepam tablets , USP 2 mg , white to off - white , round , flat faced , beveled edged tablets , debossed with “ RX ” above the bisect and “ 774 ” below the bisect on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63304 - 774 - 30 Bottles of 30 NDC 63304 - 774 - 90 Bottles of 90 NDC 63304 - 774 - 01 Bottles of 100 NDC 63304 - 774 - 05 Bottles of 500 NDC 63304 - 774 - 10 Bottles of 1000 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container .
Keep tightly closed .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA February 2013 PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
