Active ingredient ( in each lozenge ) Nicotine polacrilex 2 mg Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions ( 2 mg lozenge ) • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you .
• before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow lozenge .
• you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
• It is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 2 . 8 mg per lozenge • store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) • keep vial tightly closed and protect from light Inactive ingredients aspartame , calcium polycarbophil , flavor , maltodextrin , mannitol , sodium alginate , sodium bicarbonate , sodium stearyl fumarate , talc , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel ( 2 mg lozenge ) * COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN NICORETTE ® MINI LOZENGE Mini Nicotine Lozenge NICOTINE POLACRILEX 2 MG STOP SMOKING AID Mint Flavor FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE MORE THAN 30 MINUTES AFTER WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette WITHIN 30 MINUTES of waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex 4 mg Lozenge 2 MG User ' s Guide included LOZENGES , 2 mg Each ( Vials ) TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
2 .
Use Enough - Use at least 9 Nicotine mini lozenges per day during the first six weeks .
3 .
Use Long Enough - Use Nicotine mini lozenges for the full 12 weeks .
4 .
Use With a Support Program as directed in the enclosed User ' s Guide .
• not for sale to those under 18 years of age • proof of age required • not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified * This product is not manufactured or distributed by GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare , L . P . , distributor of Nicorette ® mini Lozenge .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
RETAIN OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION Distributed By : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 East Lancaster Avenue , Wayne , PA 19087 Package Label ( 2 mg lozenge ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
