WARNING : RISK OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation .
The risk increases with conditions such as renal impairment , sepsis , dehydration , excess alcohol intake , hepatic impairment , and acute congestive heart failure .
The onset is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
Laboratory abnormalities include low pH , increased anion gap , and elevated blood lactate .
If acidosis is suspected , JENTADUETO should be discontinued and the patient hospitalized immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Lactic acidosis can occur due to metformin accumulation .
The risk increases with conditions such as renal impairment , sepsis , dehydration , excess alcohol intake , hepatic impairment , and acute congestive heart failure .
( 5 . 1 ) • Symptoms include malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
Laboratory abnormalities include low pH , increased anion gap , and elevated blood lactate .
( 5 . 1 ) • If acidosis is suspected , discontinue JENTADUETO and hospitalize the patient immediately ( 5 . 1 ) Dosage and Administration Concomitant Use with an Insulin Secretagogue ( e . g . , Sulfonylurea ) or with Insulin ( 2 . 2 ) 9 / 2013 Contraindications ( 4 ) 5 / 2014 Warnings and Precautions Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia ( 5 . 5 ) 9 / 2013 Hypersensitivity Reactions ( 5 . 6 ) 5 / 2014 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE JENTADUETO is a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor and biguanide combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both linagliptin and metformin is appropriate ( 1 . 1 ) Important limitations of use : • Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 . 2 ) • Has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Indication JENTADUETO tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both linagliptin and metformin is appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Important Limitations of Use JENTADUETO should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes or for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis , as it would not be effective in these settings .
JENTADUETO has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at an increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using JENTADUETO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Individualize the starting dose of JENTADUETO based on the patient ' s current regimen ( 2 . 1 ) • The maximum recommended dose is 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 1000 mg metformin twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Should be given twice daily with meals , with gradual dose escalation to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects due to metformin ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The dosage of JENTADUETO should be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerability , while not exceeding the maximum recommended dose of 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily .
JENTADUETO should be given twice daily with meals .
Dose escalation should be gradual to reduce the gastrointestinal ( GI ) side effects associated with metformin use .
For available dosage forms and strengths see [ Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
Recommended starting dose : • In patients currently not treated with metformin , initiate treatment with 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 500 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily • In patients already treated with metformin , start with 2 . 5 mg linagliptin and the current dose of metformin taken at each of the two daily meals ( e . g . , a patient on metformin 1000 mg twice daily would be started on 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily with meals ) .
• Patients already treated with linagliptin and metformin individual components may be switched to JENTADUETO containing the same doses of each component .
No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of JENTADUETO in patients previously treated with other oral antihyperglycemic agents and switched to JENTADUETO .
Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes mellitus should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring as changes in glycemic control can occur .
2 . 2 Concomitant Use with an Insulin Secretagogue ( e . g . , Sulfonylurea ) or with Insulin When JENTADUETO is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or with insulin , a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS JENTADUETO is a combination of linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride .
JENTADUETO tablets are available in the following dosage forms and strengths : • 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride tablets are light pink , oval , biconvex tablets debossed with “ D2 / 1000 ” on one side and the Boehringer Ingelheim logo on the other side Tablets : 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 500 mg metformin hydrochloride 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 850 mg metformin hydrochloride 2 . 5 mg linagliptin / 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS JENTADUETO is contraindicated in patients with : • Renal impairment ( e . g . , serum creatinine ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL for men , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL for women , or abnormal creatinine clearance ) , which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • A history of hypersensitivity reaction to linagliptin , such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , exfoliative skin conditions , urticaria , or bronchial hyperreactivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity to metformin • Renal impairment ( 4 ) • Metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis ( 4 ) • History of hypersensitivity reaction to linagliptin , such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , exfoliative skin conditions , urticaria , or bronchial hyperreactivity ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to metformin ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Lactic acidosis : Warn against excessive alcohol use .
JENTADUETO is not recommended in hepatic impairment or hypoxic states and is contraindicated in renal impairment .
Ensure normal renal function before initiating and at least annually thereafter .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 8 , 5 . 9 ) • There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue JENTADUETO .
( 5 . 2 ) • Temporarily discontinue JENTADUETO in patients undergoing radiologic studies with intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials or any surgical procedures necessitating restricted intake of food and fluids ( 5 . 3 ) • Hypoglycemia : When used with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ( SU ) or insulin , consider lowering the dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) • There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with linagliptin ( one of the components of JENTADUETO ) including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions .
In such cases , promptly discontinue JENTADUETO , assess for other potential causes , institute appropriate monitoring and treatment , and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes .
( 5 . 6 ) • Vitamin B12 deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Monitor hematologic parameters annually ( 5 . 7 ) • Macrovascular outcomes : No conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with JENTADUETO or any other antidiabetic drug ( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis Metformin Lactic acidosis is a serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with JENTADUETO and is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels of > 5 µg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin is approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , ( with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal impairment , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia due to unstable or acute failure , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment and the patient ’ s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin treatment should not be initiated in any patient unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced .
In addition , metformin should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , metformin should be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic impairment .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake when taking metformin , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism .
In addition , metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure necessitating restricted intake of food or fluids .
Use of topiramate , a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor , in epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis may cause dose - dependent metabolic acidosis and may exacerbate the risk of metformin - induced lactic acidosis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The onset of lactic acidosis is often subtle , and accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
More severe acidosis may be associated with signs such as hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Patients should be educated to recognize and promptly report these symptoms .
If present , JENTADUETO should be discontinued until lactic acidosis is ruled out .
Gastrointestinal symptoms , which are commonly reported during initiation of metformin therapy are less frequently observed in subjects on a chronic , stable , dose of metformin .
Gastrointestinal symptoms in subjects on chronic , stable , dose of metformin could be caused by lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
To rule out lactic acidosis , serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose , blood pH , lactate levels , and blood metformin levels may be useful .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking metformin do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be due to other mechanisms , such as poorly - controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin , the drug should be discontinued immediately and supportive measures promptly instituted .
Metformin is dialyzable ( clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) and prompt hemodialysis is recommended to remove the accumulated metformin and correct the metabolic acidosis .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery [ see Boxed Warning ] .
5 . 2 Pancreatitis There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis , in patients taking linagliptin .
Take careful notice of potential signs and symptoms of pancreatitis .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue JENTADUETO and initiate appropriate management .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using JENTADUETO .
5 . 3 Monitoring of Renal Function Although linagliptin undergoes minimal renal excretion , metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney .
The risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
Therefore , JENTADUETO is contraindicated in patients with renal impairment .
Before initiation of therapy with JENTADUETO and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified to be normal .
In patients in whom development of renal impairment is anticipated ( e . g . , elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently and JENTADUETO discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Linagliptin may be continued as a single entity tablet at the same total daily dose of 5 mg if JENTADUETO is discontinued due to evidence of renal impairment .
No dose adjustment of linagliptin is recommended in patients with renal impairment .
Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or metformin disposition : Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or interfere with the disposition of metformin should be used with caution [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Radiological studies and surgical procedures : Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials ( e . g . , intravenous urogram , intravenous cholangiography , angiography , and computed tomography ) can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , JENTADUETO should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been confirmed to be normal .
JENTADUETO should be temporarily discontinued for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ’ s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
5 . 4 Impaired Hepatic Function Because impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis with metformin therapy , JENTADUETO should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Linagliptin Insulin secretagogues and insulin are known to cause hypoglycemia .
The use of linagliptin in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) was associated with a higher rate of hypoglycemia compared with placebo in a clinical trial [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The use of linagliptin in combination with insulin in subjects with severe renal impairment was associated with a higher rate of hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Therefore , a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with JENTADUETO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Metformin Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as SUs and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking β - adrenergic blocking drugs .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with linagliptin ( one of the components of JENTADUETO ) .
These reactions include anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions .
Onset of these reactions occurred within the first 3 months after initiation of treatment with linagliptin , with some reports occurring after the first dose .
If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected , discontinue JENTADUETO , assess for other potential causes for the event , and institute alternative treatment for diabetes .
Angioedema has also been reported with other dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitors .
Use caution in a patient with a history of angioedema to another DPP - 4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with JENTADUETO .
5 . 7 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled , 29 - week clinical trials of metformin , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of metformin - treated patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia or neurologic manifestations due to the short duration ( < 1 year ) of the clinical trials .
This risk may be more relevant to patients receiving long - term treatment with metformin , and adverse hematologic and neurologic reactions have been reported postmarketing .
The decrease in vitamin B12 levels appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on JENTADUETO and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurement at 2 - to 3 - year intervals may be useful .
5 . 8 Alcohol Intake Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake while receiving JENTADUETO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 9 Hypoxic States Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia ) have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on JENTADUETO therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with linagliptin or metformin or any other antidiabetic drug .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with JENTADUETO and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo are nasopharyngitis and diarrhea ( 6 . 1 ) • Hypoglycemia was more commonly reported in patients treated with the combination of JENTADUETO and SU compared with those treated with the combination of SU and metformin ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 or 1 - 800 - 459 - 9906 TTY , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Linagliptin / Metformin The safety of concomitantly administered linagliptin ( daily dose 5 mg ) and metformin ( mean daily dose of approximately 1800 mg ) has been evaluated in 2816 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated for ≥ 12 weeks in clinical trials .
Three placebo - controlled studies with linagliptin + metformin were conducted : 2 studies were 24 weeks in duration , 1 study was 12 weeks in duration .
In the 3 placebo - controlled clinical studies , adverse events which occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients receiving linagliptin + metformin ( n = 875 ) and were more common than in patients given placebo + metformin ( n = 539 ) included nasopharyngitis ( 5 . 7 % vs 4 . 3 % ) .
In a 24 - week factorial design study , adverse events reported in ≥ 5 % of patients receiving linagliptin + metformin and were more common than in patients given placebo are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients Treated with Linagliptin + Metformin and Greater than with Placebo in a 24 - week Factorial - Design Study Placebo n = 72 Linagliptin Monotherapy n = 142 Metformin Monotherapy n = 291 Combination of Linagliptin with Metformin n = 286 n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Nasopharyngitis 1 ( 1 . 4 ) 8 ( 5 . 6 ) 8 ( 2 . 7 ) 18 ( 6 . 3 ) Diarrhea 2 ( 2 . 8 ) 5 ( 3 . 5 ) 11 ( 3 . 8 ) 18 ( 6 . 3 ) Other adverse reactions reported in clinical studies with treatment of linagliptin + metformin were hypersensitivity ( e . g . , urticaria , angioedema , or bronchial hyperreactivity ) , cough , decreased appetite , nausea , vomiting , pruritus , and pancreatitis .
Linagliptin Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with linagliptin 5 mg and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo included : nasopharyngitis ( 7 . 0 % vs 6 . 1 % ) , diarrhea ( 3 . 3 % vs 3 . 0 % ) , and cough ( 2 . 1 % vs 1 . 4 % ) .
Rates for other adverse reactions for linagliptin 5 mg vs placebo when linagliptin was used in combination with specific anti - diabetic agents were : urinary tract infection ( 3 . 1 % vs 0 % ) and hypertriglyceridemia ( 2 . 4 % vs 0 % ) when linagliptin was used as add - on to sulfonylurea ; hyperlipidemia ( 2 . 7 % vs 0 . 8 % ) and weight increased ( 2 . 3 % vs 0 . 8 % ) when linagliptin was used as add - on to pioglitazone ; and constipation ( 2 . 1 % vs 1 % ) when linagliptin was used as add - on to basal insulin therapy .
Other adverse reactions reported in clinical studies with treatment of linagliptin monotherapy were hypersensitivity ( e . g . , urticaria , angioedema , localized skin exfoliation , or bronchial hyperreactivity ) and myalgia .
In the clinical trial program , pancreatitis was reported in 15 . 2 cases per 10 , 000 patient year exposure while being treated with linagliptin compared with 3 . 7 cases per 10 , 000 patient year exposure while being treated with comparator ( placebo and active comparator , sulfonylurea ) .
Three additional cases of pancreatitis were reported following the last administered dose of linagliptin .
Metformin The most common adverse reactions due to initiation of metformin are diarrhea , nausea / vomiting , flatulence , asthenia , indigestion , abdominal discomfort , and headache .
Long - term treatment with metformin has been associated with a decrease in vitamin B12 absorption which may very rarely result in clinically significant vitamin B12 deficiency ( e . g . , megaloblastic anemia ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia Linagliptin / Metformin In a 24 - week factorial design study , hypoglycemia was reported in 4 ( 1 . 4 % ) of 286 subjects treated with linagliptin + metformin , 6 ( 2 . 1 % ) of 291 subjects treated with metformin , and 1 ( 1 . 4 % ) of 72 subjects treated with placebo .
When linagliptin was administered in combination with metformin and a sulfonylurea , 181 ( 22 . 9 % ) of 792 patients reported hypoglycemia compared with 39 ( 14 . 8 % ) of 263 patients administered placebo in combination with metformin and sulfonylurea .
Adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were based on all reports of hypoglycemia .
A concurrent glucose measurement was not required or was normal in some patients .
Therefore , it is not possible to conclusively determine that all these reports reflect true hypoglycemia .
Linagliptin In the study of patients receiving linagliptin as add - on therapy to a stable dose of insulin for up to 52 weeks ( n = 1261 ) , no significant difference in the incidence of investigator reported hypoglycemia , defined as all symptomatic or asymptomatic episodes with a self - measured blood glucose ≤ 70 mg / dL , was noted between the linagliptin - ( 31 . 4 % ) and placebo - ( 32 . 9 % ) treated groups .
Use in Renal Impairment Linagliptin was compared to placebo as add - on to pre - existing antidiabetic therapy over 52 weeks in 133 patients with severe renal impairment ( estimated GFR < 30 mL / min ) .
For the initial 12 weeks of the study , background antidiabetic therapy was kept stable and included insulin , sulfonylurea , glinides , and pioglitazone .
For the remainder of the trial , dose adjustments in antidiabetic background therapy were allowed .
In general , the incidence of adverse events including severe hypoglycemia was similar to those reported in other linagliptin trials .
The observed incidence of hypoglycemia was higher ( linagliptin , 63 % compared to placebo , 49 % ) due to an increase in asymptomatic hypoglycemic events especially during the first 12 weeks when background glycemic therapies were kept stable .
Ten linagliptin - treated patients ( 15 % ) and 11 placebo - treated patients ( 17 % ) reported at least one episode of confirmed symptomatic hypoglycemia ( accompanying finger stick glucose ≤ 54 mg / dL ) .
During the same time period , severe hypoglycemic events , defined as an event requiring the assistance of another person to actively administer carbohydrate , glucagon or other resuscitative actions , were reported in 3 ( 4 . 4 % ) linagliptin - treated patients and 3 ( 4 . 6 % ) placebo - treated patients .
Events that were considered life - threatening or required hospitalization were reported in 2 ( 2 . 9 % ) patients on linagliptin and 1 ( 1 . 5 % ) patient on placebo .
Renal function as measured by mean eGFR and creatinine clearance did not change over 52 weeks ’ treatment compared to placebo .
Laboratory Tests Changes in laboratory findings were similar in patients treated with linagliptin + metformin compared to patients treated with placebo + metformin .
Changes in laboratory values that occurred more frequently in the linagliptin + metformin group and ≥ 1 % more than in the placebo group were not detected .
No clinically meaningful changes in vital signs were observed in patients treated with linagliptin .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of linagliptin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion : May reduce metformin elimination .
Use with caution .
( 7 . 1 ) • Strong P - glycoprotein / CYP3A4 inducer : The efficacy of JENTADUETO may be reduced when administered in combination ( e . g . , rifampin ) .
Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interactions with Metformin Cationic Drugs Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , or vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of JENTADUETO and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) frequently decrease serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs may induce metabolic acidosis .
Use these drugs with caution in patients treated with JENTADUETO , as the risk of lactic acidosis may increase [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions with Linagliptin Inducers of P - glycoprotein and CYP3A4 Enzymes Rifampin decreased linagliptin exposure , suggesting that the efficacy of linagliptin may be reduced when administered in combination with a strong P - gp inducer or CYP 3A4 inducer .
As JENTADUETO is a fixed - dose combination of linagliptin and metformin , use of alternative treatments ( not containing linagliptin ) is strongly recommended when concomitant treatment with a strong P - gp or CYP 3A4 inducer is necessary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving JENTADUETO , the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving JENTADUETO , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : JENTADUETO tablets should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : Caution should be exercised when JENTADUETO is administered to a nursing woman ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B JENTADUETO There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women with JENTADUETO or its individual components , and some clinical data is available for metformin which indicate that the risk for major malformations was not increased when metformin is taken during the first trimester in pregnancy .
In addition , metformin was not associated with increased perinatal complications .
Nevertheless , because these clinical data cannot rule out the possibility of harm , JENTADUETO should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
JENTADUETO was not teratogenic when administered to Wistar Han rats during the period of organogenesis at doses similar to clinical exposure .
At higher maternally toxic doses ( 9 and 23 times the clinical dose based on exposure ) , the metformin component of the combination was associated with an increased incidence of fetal rib and scapula malformations .
Linagliptin Linagliptin was not teratogenic when administered to pregnant Wistar Han rats and Himalayan rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 240 mg / kg and 150 mg / kg , respectively .
These doses represent approximately 943 times the clinical dose in rats and 1943 times the clinical dose in rabbits , based on exposure .
No functional , behavioral , or reproductive toxicity was observed in offspring of female Wistar Han rats when administered linagliptin from gestation day 6 to lactation day 21 at a dose 49 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on exposure .
Linagliptin crosses the placenta into the fetus following oral dosing in pregnant rats and rabbits .
Metformin Hydrochloride Metformin has been studied for embryo - fetal effects in 2 rat strains and in rabbits .
Metformin was not teratogenic in Sprague Dawley rats up to 600 mg / kg or in Wistar Han rats up to 200 mg / kg ( 2 - 3 times the clinical dose based on body surface area or exposure , respectively ) .
At higher maternally toxic doses ( 9 and 23 times the clinical dose based on exposure ) , an increased incidence of rib and scapula skeletal malformations was observed in the Wistar Han strain .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rabbits at doses up to 140 mg / kg ( similar to clinical dose based on body surface area ) .
Metformin administered to female Sprague Dawley rats from gestation day 6 to lactation day 21 up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the maximum clinical dose based on body surface area ) had no effect on prenatal or postnatal development of offspring .
Metformin crosses the placenta into the fetus in rats and humans .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers No studies in lactating animals have been conducted with the combined components of JENTADUETO .
In studies performed with the individual components , both linagliptin and metformin were secreted in the milk of lactating rats .
It is not known whether linagliptin is excreted in human milk .
Metformin is excreted in human milk in low concentrations .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of JENTADUETO in pediatric patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Linagliptin is minimally excreted by the kidney ; however , metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Considering that aging can be associated with reduced renal function , JENTADUETO should be used with caution as age increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Linagliptin There were 4040 type 2 diabetes patients treated with linagliptin 5 mg from 15 clinical trials of linagliptin ; 1085 ( 27 % ) patients were 65 years and over , while 131 ( 3 % ) were 75 years and over .
Of these patients , 2566 were enrolled in 12 double - blind placebo - controlled studies ; 591 ( 23 % ) were 65 years and over , while 82 ( 3 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients 65 years and over and younger patients .
Therefore , no dose adjustment is recommended in the elderly population .
While clinical studies of linagliptin have not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Metformin Controlled clinical studies of metformin did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and young patients .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dose adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose with JENTADUETO , contact the Poison Control Center .
Employ the usual supportive measures ( e . g . , remove unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract , employ clinical monitoring , and institute supportive treatment ) as dictated by the patient ’ s clinical status .
Removal of linagliptin by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is unlikely .
However , metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful partly for removal of accumulated metformin from patients in whom JENTADUETO overdosage is suspected .
Linagliptin During controlled clinical trials in healthy subjects , with single doses of up to 600 mg of linagliptin ( equivalent to 120 times the recommended daily dose ) , there were no dose - related clinical adverse drug reactions .
There is no experience with doses above 600 mg in humans .
Metformin Overdose of metformin has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION JENTADUETO tablets contain 2 oral antihyperglycemic drugs used in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus : linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride .
Linagliptin Linagliptin is an orally - active inhibitor of the dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) enzyme .
Linagliptin is described chemically as 1 H - Purine - 2 , 6 - dione , 8 - [ ( 3 R ) - 3 - amino - 1 - piperidinyl ] - 7 - ( 2 - butyn - 1 - yl ) - 3 , 7 - dihydro - 3 - methyl - 1 - [ ( 4 - methyl - 2 - quinazolinyl ) methyl ] - The empirical formula is C25H28N8O2 and the molecular weight is 472 . 54 g / mol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linagliptin is a white to yellowish , not or only slightly hygroscopic solid substance .
It is very slightly soluble in water ( 0 . 9 mg / mL ) .
Linagliptin is soluble in methanol ( ca . 60 mg / mL ) , sparingly soluble in ethanol ( ca . 10 mg / mL ) , very slightly soluble in isopropanol ( < 1 mg / mL ) , and very slightly soluble in acetone ( ca . 1 mg / mL ) .
Metformin Hydrochloride Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] JENTADUETO JENTADUETO is available for oral administration as tablets containing 2 . 5 mg linagliptin and 500 mg metformin hydrochloride ( JENTADUETO 2 . 5 mg / 500 mg ) , 850 mg metformin hydrochloride ( JENTADUETO 2 . 5 mg / 850 mg ) or 1000 mg metformin hydrochloride ( JENTADUETO 2 . 5 mg / 1000 mg ) .
Each film - coated tablet of JENTADUETO contains the following inactive ingredients : arginine , corn starch , copovidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , propylene glycol , hypromellose , talc , yellow ferric oxide ( 2 . 5 mg / 500 mg ; 2 . 5 mg / 850 mg ) and / or red ferric oxide ( 2 . 5 mg / 850 mg ; 2 . 5 mg / 1000 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action JENTADUETO JENTADUETO combines 2 antihyperglycemic agents with complementary mechanisms of action to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus : linagliptin , a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor , and metformin , a member of the biguanide class .
Linagliptin Linagliptin is an inhibitor of DPP - 4 , an enzyme that degrades the incretin hormones glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) and glucose - dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) .
Thus , linagliptin increases the concentrations of active incretin hormones , stimulating the release of insulin in a glucose - dependent manner and decreasing the levels of glucagon in the circulation .
Both incretin hormones are involved in the physiological regulation of glucose homeostasis .
Incretin hormones are secreted at a low basal level throughout the day and levels rise immediately after meal intake .
GLP - 1 and GIP increase insulin biosynthesis and secretion from pancreatic beta cells in the presence of normal and elevated blood glucose levels .
Furthermore , GLP - 1 also reduces glucagon secretion from pancreatic alpha cells , resulting in a reduction in hepatic glucose output .
Metformin Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike SUs , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Linagliptin Linagliptin binds to DPP - 4 in a reversible manner and increases the concentrations of incretin hormones .
Linagliptin glucose - dependently increases insulin secretion and lowers glucagon secretion , thus resulting in a better regulation of the glucose homeostasis .
Linagliptin binds selectively to DPP - 4 and selectively inhibits DPP - 4 , but not DPP - 8 or DPP - 9 activity in vitro at concentrations approximating therapeutic exposures .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled , active - comparator , 4 - way crossover study , 36 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of linagliptin 5 mg , linagliptin 100 mg ( 20 times the recommended dose ) , moxifloxacin , and placebo .
No increase in QTc was observed with either the recommended dose of 5 mg or the 100 - mg dose .
At the 100 - mg dose , peak linagliptin plasma concentrations were approximately 38 - fold higher than the peak concentrations following a 5 - mg dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics JENTADUETO The results of a bioequivalence study in healthy subjects demonstrated that JENTADUETO ( linagliptin / metformin hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg / 500 mg , 2 . 5 mg / 850 mg , and 2 . 5 mg / 1000 mg combination tablets are bioequivalent to coadministration of corresponding doses of linagliptin and metformin as individual tablets .
Administration of linagliptin 2 . 5 mg / metformin hydrochloride 1000 mg fixed - dose combination with food resulted in no change in overall exposure of linagliptin .
There was no change in metformin AUC ; however , mean peak serum concentration of metformin was decreased by 18 % when administered with food .
A delayed time - to - peak serum concentrations by 2 hours was observed for metformin under fed conditions .
These changes are not likely to be clinically significant .
Absorption Linagliptin The absolute bioavailability of linagliptin is approximately 30 % .
Following oral administration , plasma concentrations of linagliptin decline in at least a biphasic manner with a long terminal half - life ( > 100 hours ) , related to the saturable binding of linagliptin to DPP - 4 .
However , the prolonged elimination does not contribute to the accumulation of the drug .
The effective half - life for accumulation of linagliptin , as determined from oral administration of multiple doses of linagliptin 5 mg , is approximately 12 hours .
After once - daily dosing , steady state plasma concentrations of linagliptin 5 mg are reached by the third dose , and Cmax and AUC increased by a factor of 1 . 3 at steady - state compared with the first dose .
Plasma AUC of linagliptin increased in a less than dose - proportional manner in the dose range of 1 to 10 mg .
The pharmacokinetics of linagliptin is similar in healthy subjects and in patients with type 2 diabetes .
Metformin The absolute bioavailability of a metformin hydrochloride 500 - mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 % to 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of metformin tablets 500 mg to 1500 mg , and 850 mg to 2550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Distribution Linagliptin The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady state following a single intravenous dose of linagliptin 5 mg to healthy subjects is approximately 1110 L , indicating that linagliptin extensively distributes to the tissues .
Plasma protein binding of linagliptin is concentration - dependent decreasing from about 99 % at 1 nmol / L to 75 % to 89 % at ≥ 30 nmol / L , reflecting saturation of binding to DPP - 4 with increasing concentration of linagliptin .
At high concentrations , where DPP - 4 is fully saturated , 70 % to 80 % of linagliptin remains bound to plasma proteins and 20 % to 30 % is unbound in plasma .
Plasma binding is not altered in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Metformin The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of immediate - release metformin hydrochloride tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to SUs , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin tablets , steady - state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally < 1 mcg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of metformin , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 mcg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism Linagliptin Following oral administration , the majority ( about 90 % ) of linagliptin is excreted unchanged , indicating that metabolism represents a minor elimination pathway .
A small fraction of absorbed linagliptin is metabolized to a pharmacologically inactive metabolite , which shows a steady - state exposure of 13 . 3 % relative to linagliptin .
Metformin Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Excretion Linagliptin Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] linagliptin dose to healthy subjects , approximately 85 % of the administered radioactivity was eliminated via the enterohepatic system ( 80 % ) or urine ( 5 % ) within 4 days of dosing .
Renal clearance at steady state was approximately 70 mL / min .
Metformin Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment JENTADUETO : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin and metformin after administration of JENTADUETO in renally impaired patients have not been performed .
Since metformin is contraindicated in patients with renal impairment , use of JENTADUETO is also contraindicated in patients with renal impairment ( e . g . , serum creatinine ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] or ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] , or abnormal creatinine clearance ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Linagliptin : Under steady - state conditions , linagliptin exposure in patients with mild renal impairment was comparable to healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate renal impairment under steady - state conditions , mean exposure of linagliptin increased ( AUCτ , ss by 71 % and Cmax by 46 % ) compared with healthy subjects .
This increase was not associated with a prolonged accumulation half - life , terminal half - life , or an increased accumulation factor .
Renal excretion of linagliptin was below 5 % of the administered dose and was not affected by decreased renal function .
Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and severe renal impairment showed steady - state exposure approximately 40 % higher than that of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and normal renal function ( increase in AUC by 42 % and Cmax by 35 % ) .
For both type 2 diabetes mellitus groups , renal excretion was below 7 % of the administered dose .
Metformin : In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment JENTADUETO : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin and metformin after administration of JENTADUETO in hepatically impaired patients have not been performed .
However , use of metformin alone in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
Therefore , use of JENTADUETO is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Linagliptin : In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A ) steady - state exposure ( AUCτ , ss ) of linagliptin was approximately 25 % lower and Cmax , ss was approximately 36 % lower than in healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class B ) , AUCss of linagliptin was about 14 % lower and Cmax , ss was approximately 8 % lower than in healthy subjects .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class C ) had comparable exposure of linagliptin in terms of AUC0 - 24 and approximately 23 % lower Cmax compared with healthy subjects .
Reductions in the pharmacokinetic parameters seen in patients with hepatic impairment did not result in reductions in DPP - 4 inhibition .
Metformin hydrochloride : No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Body Mass Index ( BMI ) / Weight Linagliptin : BMI / Weight had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Gender Linagliptin : Gender had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Metformin hydrochloride : Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus when analyzed according to gender .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin was comparable in males and females .
Geriatric JENTADUETO : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin and metformin after administration of JENTADUETO in geriatric patients have not been performed .
Based on the metformin component , JENTADUETO treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Linagliptin : Age did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Metformin hydrochloride : Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared with healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function .
Pediatric Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin and metformin after administration of JENTADUETO in pediatric patients have not yet been performed .
Race Linagliptin : Race had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin based on available pharmacokinetic data , including subjects of White , Hispanic , Black , and Asian racial groups .
Metformin hydrochloride : No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in Caucasians ( n = 249 ) , Blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Drug Interactions Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with JENTADUETO have not been performed ; however , such studies have been conducted with the individual components of JENTADUETO ( linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride ) .
Linagliptin In vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Linagliptin is a weak to moderate inhibitor of CYP isozyme CYP3A4 , but does not inhibit other CYP isozymes and is not an inducer of CYP isozymes , including CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 4A11 .
Linagliptin is a P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) substrate , and inhibits P - gp mediated transport of digoxin at high concentrations .
Based on these results and in vivo drug interaction studies , linagliptin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with other P - gp substrates at therapeutic concentrations .
In vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Strong inducers of CYP3A4 or P - gp ( e . g . , rifampin ) decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations .
For patients requiring use of such drugs , an alternative to linagliptin is strongly recommended .
In vivo studies indicated evidence of a low propensity for causing drug interactions with substrates of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C8 , P - gp , and OCT .
No dose adjustment of linagliptin is recommended based on results of the described pharmacokinetic studies .
Table 2 Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Systemic Exposure of Linagliptin * Multiple dose ( steady state ) unless otherwise noted # Single dose † AUC = AUC ( 0 to 24 hours ) for single - dose treatments and AUC = AUC ( TAU ) for multiple - dose treatments QD = once daily BID = twice daily TID = three times daily Coadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Drug * Dosing of Linagliptin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax No dosing adjustments required for linagliptin when given with the following coadministered drugs : Metformin 850 mg TID 10 mg QD 1 . 20 1 . 03 Glyburide 1 . 75 mg # 5 mg QD 1 . 02 1 . 01 Pioglitazone 45 mg QD 10 mg QD 1 . 13 1 . 07 Ritonavir 200 mg BID 5 mg # 2 . 01 2 . 96 The efficacy of JENTADUETO may be reduced when administered in combination with strong inducers of CYP3A4 or P - gp ( e . g . , rifampin ) .
Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Rifampin 600 mg QD 5 mg QD 0 . 60 0 . 56 Table 3 Effect of Linagliptin on Systemic Exposure of Coadministered Drugs * Multiple dose ( steady state ) unless otherwise noted # Single dose † AUC = AUC ( INF ) for single - dose treatments and AUC = AUC ( TAU ) for multiple - dose treatments ** AUC = AUC ( 0 - 168 ) and Cmax = Emax for pharmacodynamic end points INR = International Normalized Ratio PT = Prothrombin Time QD = once daily TID = three times daily Coadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Drug * Dosing of Linagliptin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following coadministered drugs : Metformin 850 mg TID 10 mg QD metformin 1 . 01 0 . 89 Glyburide 1 . 75 mg # 5 mg QD glyburide 0 . 86 0 . 86 Pioglitazone 45 mg QD 10 mg QD pioglitazone metabolite M - III metabolite M - IV 0 . 94 0 . 98 1 . 04 0 . 86 0 . 96 1 . 05 Digoxin 0 . 25 mg QD 5 mg QD digoxin 1 . 02 0 . 94 Simvastatin 40 mg QD 10 mg QD simvastatin simvastatin acid 1 . 34 1 . 33 1 . 10 1 . 21 Warfarin 10 mg # 5 mg QD R - warfarin S - warfarin INR PT 0 . 99 1 . 03 0 . 93 ** 1 . 03 ** 1 . 00 1 . 01 1 . 04 ** 1 . 15 ** Ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel ethinylestradiol 0 . 03 mg and levonorgestrel 0 . 150 mg QD 5 mg QD ethinylestradiol levonorgestrel 1 . 01 1 . 09 1 . 08 1 . 13 Metformin hydrochloride Table 4 Effect of Coadministered Drug on Plasma Metformin Systemic Exposure * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses † AUC = AUC ( INF ) ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means ** At steady state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours ; AUC = AUC0 - 12 h Coadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following coadministered drugs : Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 09 ‡ 1 . 22 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg metformin 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 05 ‡ 1 . 07 ‡ Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion may reduce metformin elimination : use with caution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis : use with caution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Topiramate ** 100 mg 500 mg metformin 1 . 25 1 . 17 Table 5 Effect of Metformin on Coadministered Drug Systemic Exposure * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses † AUC = AUC ( INF ) unless otherwise noted ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 § AUC ( 0 - 24 hr ) reported ¶ Ratio of arithmetic means Coadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without metformin ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUC † Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following coadministered drugs : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg § glyburide 0 . 78 ‡ 0 . 63 ‡ Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg furosemide 0 . 87 ‡ 0 . 69 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg nifedipine 1 . 10 § 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg propranolol 1 . 01 § 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg ibuprofen 0 . 97 ¶ 1 . 01 ¶ 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility JENTADUETO No animal studies have been conducted with the combined products in JENTADUETO to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
General toxicity studies in rats up to 13 weeks were performed with JENTADUETO .
The following data are based on the findings in studies with linagliptin and metformin individually .
Linagliptin Linagliptin did not increase the incidence of tumors in male and female rats in a 2 - year study at doses of 6 , 18 , and 60 mg / kg .
The highest dose of 60 mg / kg is approximately 418 times the clinical dose of 5 mg / day based on AUC exposure .
Linagliptin did not increase the incidence of tumors in mice in a 2 - year study at doses up to 80 mg / kg ( males ) and 25 mg / kg ( females ) , or approximately 35 and 270 times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure .
Higher doses of linagliptin in female mice ( 80 mg / kg ) increased the incidence of lymphoma at approximately 215 times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure .
Linagliptin was not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , a chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , and an in vivo micronucleus assay .
In fertility studies in rats , linagliptin had no adverse effects on early embryonic development , mating , fertility , or bearing live young up to the highest dose of 240 mg / kg ( approximately 943 times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure ) .
Metformin Hydrochloride Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg / kg / day based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( Salmonella typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The coadministration of linagliptin and metformin has been studied in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on diet and exercise and in combination with sulfonylurea .
There have been no clinical efficacy studies conducted with JENTADUETO ; however , bioequivalence of JENTADUETO to linagliptin and metformin coadministered as individual tablets was demonstrated in healthy subjects .
14 . 1 Initial Combination Therapy with Linagliptin and Metformin A total of 791 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and inadequate glycemic control on diet and exercise participated in the 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , portion of this placebo - controlled factorial study designed to assess the efficacy of linagliptin as initial therapy with metformin .
Patients on an antihyperglycemic agent ( 52 % ) underwent a drug washout period of 4 weeks ’ duration .
After the washout period and after completing a 2 - week single - blind placebo run - in period , patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C ≥ 7 . 0 % to ≤ 10 . 5 % ) were randomized .
Patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C ≥ 7 . 5 % to < 11 . 0 % ) not on antihyperglycemic agents at study entry ( 48 % ) immediately entered the 2 - week single - blind placebo run - in period and then were randomized .
Randomization was stratified by baseline A1C ( < 8 . 5 % vs ≥ 8 . 5 % ) and use of a prior oral antidiabetic drug ( none vs monotherapy ) .
Patients were randomized in a 1 : 2 : 2 : 2 : 2 : 2 ratio to either placebo or one of 5 active - treatment arms .
Approximately equal numbers of patients were randomized to receive initial therapy with 5 mg of linagliptin once daily , 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin twice daily , or 2 . 5 mg of linagliptin twice daily in combination with 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin twice daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the study were treated with sulfonylurea , thiazolidinedione , or insulin rescue therapy .
Initial therapy with the combination of linagliptin and metformin provided significant improvements in A1C , and fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) compared to placebo , to metformin alone , and to linagliptin alone ( Table 6 , Figure 1 ) .
The adjusted mean treatment difference in A1C from baseline to week 24 ( LOCF ) was - 0 . 5 % ( 95 % CI - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 3 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) for linagliptin 2 . 5 mg / metformin 1000 mg twice daily compared to metformin 1000 mg twice daily ; - 1 . 1 % ( 95 % CI - 1 . 4 , - 0 . 9 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) for linagliptin 2 . 5 mg / metformin 1000 mg twice daily compared to linagliptin 5 mg once daily ; - 0 . 6 % ( 95 % CI - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 4 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) for linagliptin 2 . 5 mg / metformin 500 mg twice daily compared to metformin 500 mg twice daily ; and - 0 . 8 % ( 95 % CI - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) for linagliptin 2 . 5 mg / metformin 500 mg twice daily compared to linagliptin 5 mg once daily .
Lipid effects were generally neutral .
No meaningful change in body weight was noted in any of the 6 treatment groups .
Table 6 Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) for Linagliptin and Metformin , Alone and in Combination in Randomized Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise *** Total daily dose of linagliptin is equal to 5 mg ** Full analysis population using last observation on study *** Metformin 500 mg twice daily , n = 140 ; Linagliptin 2 . 5 mg twice daily + Metformin 500 twice daily , n = 136 ; Metformin 1000 mg twice daily , n = 137 ; Linagliptin 2 . 5 mg twice daily + Metformin 1000 mg twice daily , n = 138 .
**** HbA1c : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c as continuous covariates .
FPG : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline FPG as continuous covariates .
Placebo Linagliptin 5 mg Once Daily * Metformin 500 mg Twice Daily Linagliptin 2 . 5 mg Twice Daily * + Metformin 500 mg Twice Daily Metformin 1000 mg Twice Daily Linagliptin 2 . 5 mg Twice Daily * + Metformin 1000 mg Twice Daily A1C ( % ) Number of patients n = 65 n = 135 n = 141 n = 137 n = 138 n = 140 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 7 8 . 7 8 . 7 8 . 7 8 . 5 8 . 7 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean **** ) 0 . 1 - 0 . 5 - 0 . 6 - 1 . 2 - 1 . 1 - 1 . 6 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) -- - 0 . 6 ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 3 ) - 0 . 8 ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 5 ) - 1 . 3 ( - 1 . 6 , - 1 . 1 ) - 1 . 2 ( - 1 . 5 , - 0 . 9 ) - 1 . 7 ( - 2 . 0 , - 1 . 4 ) Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving A1C < 7 % *** 7 ( 10 . 8 ) 14 ( 10 . 4 ) 26 ( 18 . 6 ) 41 ( 30 . 1 ) 42 ( 30 . 7 ) 74 ( 53 . 6 ) Patients ( % ) receiving rescue medication 29 . 2 11 . 1 13 . 5 7 . 3 8 . 0 4 . 3 FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 61 n = 134 n = 136 n = 135 n = 132 n = 136 Baseline ( mean ) 203 195 191 199 191 196 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean **** ) 10 - 9 - 16 - 33 - 32 - 49 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) -- - 19 ( - 31 , - 6 ) - 26 ( - 38 , - 14 ) - 43 ( - 56 , - 31 ) - 42 ( - 55 , - 30 ) - 60 ( - 72 , - 47 ) Figure 1 Adjusted Mean Change from Baseline for A1C ( % ) over 24 Weeks with Linagliptin and Metformin , Alone and in Combination in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Inadequately Controlled with Diet and Exercise - FAS completers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Initial Combination Therapy with Linagliptin and Metformin vs Linagliptin in Treatment - Naïve Patients A total of 316 patients with type 2 diabetes diagnosed within the previous 12 months and treatment - naïve ( no antidiabetic therapy for 12 weeks prior to randomization ) and inadequate glycemic control ( A1C ≥ 8 . 5 % to ≤ 12 . 0 % ) participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , study designed to assess the efficacy of linagliptin in combination with metformin vs linagliptin .
Patients were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , after a 2 - week run - in period , to either linagliptin 5 mg plus metformin ( 1500 to 2000 mg per day , n = 159 ) or linagliptin 5 mg plus placebo , ( n = 157 ) administered once daily .
Patients in the linagliptin and metformin treatment group were up - titrated to a maximum tolerated dose of metformin ( 1000 to 2000 mg per day ) over a three - week period .
Initial therapy with the combination of linagliptin and metformin provided statistically significant improvements in A1C compared to linagliptin ( Table 7 ) .
The mean difference between groups in A1C change from baseline was - 0 . 8 % with 2 - sided 95 % confidence interval ( - 1 . 23 % , - 0 . 45 % ) .
Table 7 Glycemic Parameters at 24 Weeks in Study Comparing Linagliptin in Combination with Metformin to Linagliptin in Treatment - Naïve Patients * † p < 0 . 0001 compared to linagliptin , †† p = 0 . 0054 compared to linagliptin * Full analysis set population ** A1C : MMRM model included treatment , continuous baseline A1C , baseline A1C by visit interaction , visit by treatment interaction , baseline renal impairment by treatment interaction and baseline renal impairment by treatment by visit interaction .
FPG : MMRM model included treatment , continuous baseline A1C , continuous baseline FPG , baseline FPG by visit interaction , visit by treatment interaction , baseline renal impairment by treatment interaction and baseline renal impairment by treatment by visit interaction .
Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin Linagliptin 5 mg + Placebo A1C ( % ) * Number of patients n = 153 n = 150 Baseline ( mean ) 9 . 8 9 . 9 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 2 . 9 - 2 Difference from linagliptin ( adjusted mean ** ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 84 † ( - 1 . 23 , - 0 . 45 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving A1C < 7 % * 82 ( 53 . 6 ) 45 ( 30 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) * Number of patients n = 153 n = 150 Baseline ( mean ) 196 198 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 54 - 35 Difference from linagliptin ( adjusted mean ** ) ( 95 % CI ) - 18 †† ( - 31 , - 5 . 5 ) -- The adjusted mean changes for A1C ( % ) from baseline over time for linagliptin and metformin as compared to linagliptin alone were maintained throughout the 24 week treatment period .
Using the completers analysis the respective adjusted means for A1C ( % ) changes from baseline for linagliptin and metformin as compared to linagliptin alone were - 1 . 9 and - 1 . 3 at week 6 , - 2 . 6 and - 1 . 8 at week 12 , - 2 . 7 and - 1 . 9 at week 18 , and - 2 . 7 and - 1 . 9 at week 24 .
Changes in body weight from baseline were not clinically significant in either treatment group .
14 . 3 Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin A total of 701 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of linagliptin in combination with metformin .
Patients already on metformin ( n = 491 ) at a dose of at least 1500 mg per day were randomized after completing a 2 - week open - label placebo run - in period .
Patients on metformin and another antihyperglycemic agent ( n = 207 ) were randomized after a run - in period of approximately 6 weeks on metformin ( at a dose of at least 1500 mg per day ) in monotherapy .
Patients were randomized to the addition of either linagliptin 5 mg or placebo , administered once daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the studies were treated with glimepiride rescue .
In combination with metformin , linagliptin provided statistically significant improvements in A1C , FPG , and 2 - hour PPG compared with placebo ( Table 8 ) .
Rescue glycemic therapy was used in 7 . 8 % of patients treated with linagliptin 5 mg and in 18 . 9 % of patients treated with placebo .
A similar decrease in body weight was observed for both treatment groups .
Table 8 Glycemic Parameters in Placebo - Controlled Study for Linagliptin in Combination with Metformin ** Full analysis population using last observation on study ** Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin , n = 485 ; Placebo + Metformin , n = 163 .
*** HbA1c : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior oral OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c as continuous covariates .
FPG : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline FPG as continuous covariates .
PPG : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline postprandial glucose after two hours as covariate .
Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin Placebo + Metformin A1C ( % ) Number of patients n = 513 n = 175 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 1 8 . 0 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 0 . 5 0 . 15 Difference from placebo + metformin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 6 ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 5 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving A1C < 7 % ** 127 ( 26 . 2 ) 15 ( 9 . 2 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 495 n = 159 Baseline ( mean ) 169 164 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 11 11 Difference from placebo + metformin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 21 ( - 27 , - 15 ) -- 2 - hour PPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 78 n = 21 Baseline ( mean ) 270 274 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 49 18 Difference from placebo + metformin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 67 ( - 95 , - 40 ) -- 14 . 4 Active - Controlled Study vs Glimepiride in Combination with Metformin The efficacy of linagliptin was evaluated in a 104 - week double - blind , glimepiride - controlled non - inferiority study in type 2 diabetic patients with insufficient glycemic control despite metformin therapy .
Patients being treated with metformin only entered a run - in period of 2 weeks ’ duration , whereas patients pretreated with metformin and one additional antihyperglycemic agent entered a run - in treatment period of 6 weeks ’ duration with metformin monotherapy ( dose of ≥ 1500 mg per day ) and washout of the other agent .
After an additional 2 - week placebo run - in period , those with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 6 . 5 % to 10 % ) were randomized 1 : 1 to the addition of linagliptin 5 mg once daily or glimepiride .
Randomization was stratified by baseline HbA1c ( < 8 . 5 % vs ≥ 8 . 5 % ) , and the previous use of antidiabetic drugs ( metformin alone vs metformin plus one other OAD ) .
Patients receiving glimepiride were given an initial dose of 1 mg / day and then electively titrated over the next 12 weeks to a maximum dose of 4 mg / day as needed to optimize glycemic control .
Thereafter , the glimepiride dose was to be kept constant , except for down - titration to prevent hypoglycemia .
After 52 weeks and 104 weeks , linagliptin and glimepiride both had reductions from baseline in A1C ( 52 weeks : - 0 . 4 % for linagliptin , - 0 . 6 % for glimepiride ; 104 weeks : - 0 . 2 % for linagliptin , - 0 . 4 % for glimepiride ) from a baseline mean of 7 . 7 % ( Table 9 ) .
The mean difference between groups in A1C change from baseline was 0 . 2 % with 2 - sided 97 . 5 % confidence interval ( 0 . 1 % , 0 . 3 % ) for the intent - to - treat population using last observation carried forward .
These results were consistent with the completers analysis .
Table 9 Glycemic Parameters at 52 and 104 Weeks in Study Comparing Linagliptin to Glimepiride as Add - On Therapy in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin *** p < 0 . 0001 vs glimepiride ; † p = 0 . 0012 vs glimepiride ** Full analysis population using last observation on study *** HbA1c : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c as continuous covariates .
FPG : ANCOVA model included treatment and number of prior OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline FPG as continuous covariates .
Week 52 Week 104 Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin Glimepiride + Metformin ( mean glimepiride dose 3 mg ) Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin Glimepiride + Metformin ( mean glimepiride dose 3 mg ) A1C ( % ) Number of patients n = 764 n = 755 n = 764 n = 755 Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 7 7 . 7 7 . 7 7 . 7 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 0 . 4 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 2 - 0 . 4 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 97 . 5 % CI ) 0 . 2 ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 ) -- 0 . 2 ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 ) -- FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 733 n = 725 n = 733 n = 725 Baseline ( mean ) 164 166 164 166 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 8 * - 15 - 2 † - 9 Patients treated with linagliptin had a mean baseline body weight of 86 kg and were observed to have an adjusted mean decrease in body weight of 1 . 1 kg at 52 weeks and 1 . 4 kg at 104 weeks .
Patients on glimepiride had a mean baseline body weight of 87 kg and were observed to have an adjusted mean increase from baseline in body weight of 1 . 4 kg at 52 weeks and 1 . 3 kg at 104 weeks ( treatment difference p < 0 . 0001 for both timepoints ) .
14 . 5 Add - On Combination Therapy with Metformin and a Sulfonylurea A total of 1058 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of linagliptin in combination with a sulfonylurea and metformin .
The most common sulfonylureas used by patients in the study were glimepiride ( 31 % ) , glibenclamide ( 26 % ) , and gliclazide ( 26 % [ not available in the United States ] ) .
Patients on a sulfonylurea and metformin were randomized to receive linagliptin 5 mg or placebo , each administered once daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the study were treated with pioglitazone rescue .
Glycemic end points measured included A1C and FPG .
In combination with a sulfonylurea and metformin , linagliptin provided statistically significant improvements in A1C and FPG compared with placebo ( Table 10 ) .
In the entire study population ( patients on linagliptin in combination with a sulfonylurea and metformin ) , a mean reduction from baseline relative to placebo in A1C of - 0 . 6 % and in FPG of - 13 mg / dL was seen .
Rescue therapy was used in 5 . 4 % of patients treated with linagliptin 5 mg and in 13 % of patients treated with placebo .
Change from baseline in body weight did not differ significantly between the groups .
Table 10 Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) for Linagliptin in Combination with Metformin and Sulfonylurea * SU = sulfonylurea * Full analysis population using last observation on study ** Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin + SU , n = 742 ; Placebo + Metformin + SU , n = 247 *** HbA1c : ANCOVA model included treatment as class - effects and baseline HbA1c as continuous covariates .
FPG : ANCOVA model included treatment as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline FPG as continuous covariates .
Linagliptin 5 mg + Metformin + SU Placebo + Metformin + SU A1C ( % ) Number of patients n = 778 n = 262 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 2 8 . 1 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 0 . 7 - 0 . 1 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 6 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 5 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving A1C < 7 % ** 217 ( 29 . 2 ) 20 ( 8 . 1 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 739 n = 248 Baseline ( mean ) 159 163 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 5 8 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 13 ( - 18 , - 7 ) -- 14 . 6 Add - On Combination Therapy with Insulin A total of 1261 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on basal insulin alone or basal insulin in combination with oral drugs participated in a randomized , double - blind placebo - controlled trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of linagliptin as add - on therapy to basal insulin over 24 weeks .
Randomization was stratified by baseline HbA1c ( < 8 . 5 % vs ≥ 8 . 5 % ) , renal function impairment status ( based on baseline eGFR ) , and concomitant use of oral antidiabetic drugs ( none , metformin only , pioglitazone only , metformin + pioglitazone ) .
Patients with a baseline A1C of > 7 % and < 10 % were included in the study including 709 patients with renal impairment ( eGFR < 90 mL / min ) , most of whom ( n = 575 ) were categorized as mild renal impairment ( eGFR 60 to < 90 mL / min ) .
Patients entered a 2 - week placebo run - in period on basal insulin ( e . g . , insulin glargine , insulin detemir , or NPH insulin ) with or without metformin and / or pioglitazone background therapy .
Following the run - in period , patients with inadequate glycemic control were randomized to the addition of either 5 mg of linagliptin or placebo , administered once daily .
Patients were maintained on a stable dose of insulin prior to enrollment , during the run - in period , and during the first 24 weeks of treatment .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the double - blind treatment period were rescued by increasing background insulin dose .
Linagliptin used in combination with insulin ( with or without metformin and / or pioglitazone ) , provided statistically significant improvements in A1C and FPG compared to placebo ( Table 11 ) after 24 weeks of treatment .
The mean total daily insulin dose at baseline was 42 units for patients treated with linagliptin and 40 units for patients treated with placebo .
Background baseline diabetes therapy included use of : insulin alone ( 16 . 1 % ) , insulin combined with metformin only ( 75 . 5 % ) , insulin combined with metformin and pioglitazone ( 7 . 4 % ) , and insulin combined with pioglitazone only ( 1 % ) .
The mean change from baseline to Week 24 in the daily dose of insulin was + 1 . 3 IU in the placebo group and + 0 . 6 IU in the linagliptin group .
The mean change in body weight from baseline to Week 24 was similar in the two treatment groups .
The rate of hypoglycemia , defined as all symptomatic or asymptomatic episodes with a self measured blood glucose was also similar in both groups ( 21 . 4 % linagliptin ; 22 . 9 % placebo ) in the first 24 weeks of the study .
Table 11 Glycemic Parameters in Placebo - Controlled Study for Linagliptin in Combination with Insulin ** Full analysis population using last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) method on study ** Linagliptin + Insulin , n = 595 ; Placebo + Insulin , n = 593 *** HbA1c : ANCOVA model included treatment , categorical renal function impairment status and concomitant OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c as continuous covariates .
FPG : ANCOVA model included treatment , categorical renal function impairment status and concomitant OADs as class - effects , as well as baseline HbA1c and baseline FPG as continuous covariates .
Linagliptin 5 mg + Insulin Placebo + Insulin A1C ( % ) Number of patients n = 618 n = 617 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 3 8 . 3 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 0 . 6 0 . 1 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 7 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 6 ) -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving A1C < 7 % ** 116 ( 19 . 5 ) 48 ( 8 . 1 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 613 n = 608 Baseline ( mean ) 147 151 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean *** ) - 8 3 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 11 ( - 16 , - 6 ) -- The difference between treatment with linagliptin and placebo in terms of adjusted mean change from baseline in HbA1c after 24 weeks was comparable for patients with no renal impairment ( eGRF ≥ 90 mL / min , n = 539 ) , with mild renal impairment ( eGFR 60 to < 90 mL / min , n = 565 ) , or with moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to < 60 mL / min , n = 124 ) .
14 . 7 Renal Impairment A total of 133 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 52 week , double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of linagliptin in patients with both type 2 diabetes and severe chronic renal impairment .
Participants with an estimated ( based on the four variables modified diet in renal disease [ MDRD ] equation ) GFR value of < 30 mL / min were eligible to participate in the study .
Randomization was stratified by baseline HbA1c ( ≤ 8 % and > 8 % ) and background antidiabetic therapy ( insulin or any combination with insulin , SU or glinides as monotherapy and pioglitazone or any other antidiabetics excluding any other DPP - 4 inhibitors ) .
For the initial 12 weeks of the study , background antidiabetic therapy was kept stable and included insulin , sulfonylurea , glinides , and pioglitazone .
For the remainder of the trial , dose adjustments in antidiabetic background therapy were allowed .
At baseline in this trial , 62 . 5 % of patients were receiving insulin alone as background diabetes therapy , and 12 . 5 % were receiving sulfonylurea alone .
After 12 weeks of treatment , linagliptin 5 mg provided statistically significant improvement in A1C compared to placebo , with an adjusted mean change of - 0 . 6 % compared to placebo ( 95 % confidence interval - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 3 ) based on the analysis using last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) .
With adjustments in antidiabetic background therapy after the initial 12 weeks , efficacy was maintained for 52 weeks , with an adjusted mean change from baseline in A1C of - 0 . 7 % compared to placebo ( 95 % confidence interval - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 4 ) based on analysis using LOCF .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING JENTADUETO ( linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride ) tablets 2 . 5 mg / 1000 mg are supplied as follows : Bottles of 60 ( NDC 54868 - 6461 - 0 ) Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from exposure to high humidity .
Store in a safe place out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) Medication Guide Instruct patients to read the Medication Guide before starting JENTADUETO therapy and to reread each time the prescription is renewed .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor if they develop any bothersome or unusual symptoms , or if any symptom persists or worsens .
Inform patients of the potential risks and benefits of JENTADUETO and of alternative modes of therapy .
Also inform patients about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , regular physical activity , periodic blood glucose monitoring and A1C testing , recognition and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , and assessment for diabetes complications .
Advise patients to seek medical advice promptly during periods of stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , as medication requirements may change .
Lactic Acidosis Inform patients of the risks of lactic acidosis due to the metformin component , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to discontinue JENTADUETO immediately and to notify their doctor promptly if unexplained hyperventilation , malaise , myalgia , unusual somnolence , slow or irregular heart beat , sensation of feeling cold ( especially in the extremities ) , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
GI symptoms are common during initiation of metformin treatment and may occur during initiation of JENTADUETO therapy ; however , advise patients to consult their doctor if they develop unexplained symptoms .
Although GI symptoms that occur after stabilization are unlikely to be drug related , such an occurrence of symptoms should be evaluated to determine if it may be due to metformin - induced lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Pancreatitis Inform patients that acute pancreatitis has been reported during postmarketing use of linagliptin .
Inform patients that persistent severe abdominal pain , sometimes radiating to the back , which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting , is the hallmark symptom of acute pancreatitis .
Instruct patients to discontinue JENTADUETO promptly and contact their physician if persistent severe abdominal pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Monitoring of Renal Function Inform patients about the importance of regular testing of renal function and hematological parameters when receiving treatment with JENTADUETO .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking JENTADUETO prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation of JENTADUETO may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia Inform patients that the risk of hypoglycemia is increased when JENTADUETO is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) , and that a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that serious allergic reactions , such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions , have been reported during postmarketing use of linagliptin ( one of the components of JENTADUETO ) .
If symptoms of allergic reactions ( such as rash , skin flaking or peeling , urticaria , swelling of the skin , or swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing ) occur , patients must stop taking JENTADUETO and seek medical advice promptly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Missed Dose Instruct patients to take JENTADUETO only as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , advise patients not to double their next dose .
Alcohol Intake Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving JENTADUETO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Blood Glucose and A1C Monitoring Inform patients that response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of blood glucose and A1C levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
A1C monitoring is especially useful for evaluating long - term glycemic control .
Renal Function and Other Hematologic Parameters Monitoring Inform patients that initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( e . g . , serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 7 ) ] .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , Ingelheim , Germany Copyright © 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 IT5571JG312014 300661 - 05 IT5645G 302118 - 04 MEDICATION GUIDE JENTADUETO ( JEN ta doo e ' toe ) ( linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride ) Tablets Read this Medication Guide carefully before you start taking JENTADUETO and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about JENTADUETO , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about JENTADUETO ?
Serious side effects can happen in people taking JENTADUETO , including : • Lactic Acidosis .
Metformin , one of the medicines in JENTADUETO , can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a build - up of lactic acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Stop taking JENTADUETO and call your doctor right away if you get any of the following symptoms of lactic acidosis : • feel very weak or tired • have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • have trouble breathing • have unusual sleepiness or sleep longer than usual • have sudden stomach or intestinal problems with nausea and vomiting or diarrhea • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • feel dizzy or lightheaded • have a slow or irregular heart beat You have a higher chance of getting lactic acidosis if you : • have kidney problems .
People whose kidneys are not working properly should not take JENTADUETO .
• have liver problems • have congestive heart failure that requires treatment with medicines • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term ( " binge " drinking ) • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have certain x - ray tests with dyes or contrast agents that are injected into your body • have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke • are 80 years of age or older and have not had your kidneys tested • Inflammation of the pancreas ( pancreatitis ) which may be severe and lead to death .
Certain medical problems make you more likely to get pancreatitis .
Before you start taking JENTADUETO : Tell your doctor if you have ever had : • inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) • stones in your gallbladder ( gallstones ) • a history of alcoholism • high blood triglyceride levels   Stop taking JENTADUETO and call your doctor right away if you have pain in your stomach area ( abdomen ) that is severe and will not go away .
The pain may be felt going from your abdomen through to your back .
The pain may happen with or without vomiting .
These may be symptoms of pancreatitis .
What is JENTADUETO ?
• JENTADUETO is a prescription medicine that contains 2 diabetes medicines , linagliptin and metformin .
JENTADUETO can be used along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes when treatment with both linagliptin and metformin is appropriate .
• JENTADUETO is not for people with type 1 diabetes .
• JENTADUETO is not for people with diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in the blood or urine ) .
• If you have had pancreatitis in the past , it is not known if you have a higher chance of getting pancreatitis while you take JENTADUETO .
• It is not known if JENTADUETO is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take JENTADUETO ?
Do not take JENTADUETO if you : • have kidney problems • have a condition called metabolic acidosis or diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in the blood or urine ) .
• are allergic to linagliptin , metformin , or any of the ingredients in JENTADUETO .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in JENTADUETO . Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to JENTADUETO may include : • skin rash , itching , flaking or peeling • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • swelling of your face , lips , tongue and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing • difficulty with swallowing or breathing If you have any of these symptoms , stop taking JENTADUETO and contact your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I tell my doctor before using JENTADUETO ?
Before you take JENTADUETO , tell your doctor if you : • have or have had inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
• have kidney problems • have liver problems • have heart problems , including congestive heart failure • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short term " binge " drinking • are 80 years of age or older , you should not take JENTADUETO unless your kidneys have been checked and they are normal • are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure .
JENTADUETO will need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your doctor about when you should stop JENTADUETO and when you should start JENTADUETO again .
See " What is the most important information I should know about JENTADUETO ? "
• have type 1 diabetes .
JENTADUETO should not be used to treat people with type 1 diabetes .
• have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if JENTADUETO will harm your unborn baby .
If you are pregnant , talk with your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if JENTADUETO passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take JENTADUETO .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
JENTADUETO may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how JENTADUETO works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines that can lower your blood sugar • rifampin ( Rifadin ® , Rimactane ® , Rifater ® , Rifamate ® ) * , an antibiotic that is used to treat tuberculosis Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take JENTADUETO ?
• Take JENTADUETO exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Take JENTADUETO 2 times each day with meals .
Taking JENTADUETO with meals may lower your chance of having an upset stomach .
• If you miss a dose , take it with food as soon as you remember .
If you do not remember until it is time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule .
Do not take 2 doses of JENTADUETO at the same time .
• If you take too much JENTADUETO , call your doctor or Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your doctor may tell you to take JENTADUETO along with other diabetes medicines .
Low blood sugar can happen more often when JENTADUETO is taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
See " What are the possible side effects of JENTADUETO ? "
• You may need to stop taking JENTADUETO for a short time .
Call your doctor for instructions if you : • are dehydrated ( have lost too much body fluid ) .
Dehydration can occur if you are sick with severe vomiting , diarrhea , or fever , or if you drink a lot less fluid than normal .
• plan to have surgery • are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agent for an x - ray procedure .
See " What is the most important information I should know about JENTADUETO ? "
and " Who should not take JENTADUETO ? "
• When your body is under some types of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection , or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine that you need may change .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these conditions and follow your doctor ’ s instructions .
• Check your blood sugar as your doctor tells you to .
• Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program while taking JENTADUETO .
• Your doctor will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A1C .
• Your doctor will do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with JENTADUETO .
What are the possible side effects of JENTADUETO tablets ?
JENTADUETO may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about JENTADUETO ? "
• low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take JENTADUETO with another medication that can cause low blood sugar , such as sulfonylurea or insulin , your risk of getting low blood sugar is higher .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you take JENTADUETO .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • irritability • drowsiness • hunger • weakness • fast heart beat • dizziness • sweating • confusion • feeling jittery • Allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions . Serious allergic reactions can happen after your first dose or up to 3 months after starting JENTADUETO .
Symptoms may include : • swelling of your face , lips , throat , and other areas on your skin • difficulty with swallowing or breathing • raised , red areas on your skin ( hives ) • skin rash , itching , flaking , or peeling If you have these symptoms , stop taking JENTADUETO and call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
The most common side effects of JENTADUETO include : • stuffy or runny nose and sore throat • diarrhea These are not all the possible side effects of JENTADUETO .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or that do not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store JENTADUETO tablets ?
• Store JENTADUETO between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep tablets dry .
Keep JENTADUETO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of JENTADUETO Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Medication Guides .
Do not use JENTADUETO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give JENTADUETO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about JENTADUETO .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about JENTADUETO that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . jentadueto . com ( or scan the code below to go to www . jentadueto . com ) or call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 , or ( TTY ) 1 - 800 - 459 - 9906 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What are the ingredients in JENTADUETO ?
Active Ingredients : linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : arginine , corn starch , copovidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , propylene glycol , hypromellose , talc .
2 . 5 mg / 500 mg and 2 . 5 mg / 850 mg tablets also contain yellow ferric oxide .
2 . 5 mg / 850 mg and 2 . 5 mg / 1000 mg tablets also contain red ferric oxide .
What is type 2 diabetes ?
Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which your body does not make enough insulin , and / or the insulin that your body produces does not work as well as it should .
Your body can also make too much sugar .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , and by certain medicines when necessary .
Talk to your doctor about how to prevent , recognize , and take care of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and other problems you have because of your diabetes .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH Ingelheim , Germany Revised : July 2014 Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 * The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , or its products .
Copyright © 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED IT5571JG312014 300661 - 05 IT5645G 302118 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Jentadueto ( linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride ) tablets NDC : 54868 - 6461 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
