Active Ingredients Purpose Mineral Oil 14 % ...................................................
Protectant Petrolatum 74 . 9 % ................................................ Protectant Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 0 . 25 % ........................ Vasoconstrictor Uses • Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning • Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • Temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Warnings For external and / or intrarectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have : • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression Stop use and ask a doctor if : • bleeding occurs • condition gets worse or does not get better within 7 days • introduction of the applicator into the rectum causes additional pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a physician before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe • gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying • when first opening tube , remove foil seal • for intrarectal use : remove protective cover from applicator and attach to tube .
Lubricate applicator well , then gently insert applicator into the rectum • thoroughly clean applicator and replace protective cover after each use • apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning , or after each bowel movement • also apply ointment to external area Other Information store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients glycerin , lanolin , methylparaben , proplyparaben , steryl alcohol , thyme oil , tocopherol acetate , water , white wax DISTRIBUTED BY : FRED ' S , INC .
4300 NEW GETWELL RD .
MEMPHIS , TN 38118 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
