Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % ..................................................... Anti - itch Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison suman , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic , dermatitis , and psoriasis • for temporary relief of external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor • for the treatment of a diaper rash .
Consult a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • conditions worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel , carbomers 940 , cetostearyl alcohol , concentrated glycerin , dimethicone , glyceryl monostearate SE , light liquid parrafin , methylparaben , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hydroxide , white petrolatum DISTRIBUTED BY : MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com MADE IN KOREA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
