Rx only DESCRIPTION Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate is supplied in capsule form for oral administration .
Each capsule contains the following active ingredients : Codeine Phosphate , USP ........................................ 30 mg Butalbital , USP ........................................................
50 mg Caffeine , USP .........................................................
40 mg Acetaminophen , USP ..............................................
325 mg Codeine phosphate [ 7 , 8 - didehydro - 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6α - ol phosphate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) hemihydrate , C18H24N07P , anhydrous mw 397 . 37 ] , is a narcotic analgesic and antitussive .
The structural formula of codeine phosphate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Butalbital ( 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutylbarbituric acid , C11H16N203 , mw 224 . 26 ) , is a short - to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
The structural formula of butalbital is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caffeine ( 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine , C8H10N4O2 , mw 194 . 19 ) , is a central nervous system stimulant .
The structural formula of caffeine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetaminophen ( 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide , C8H9NO2 , mw 151 . 16 ) , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
The structural formula of acetaminophen is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients : Codeine Phosphate , USP , Butalbital , USP , Caffeine , USP , and Acetaminophen , USP .
Inactive Ingredients : FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 3 , FD & C Red No . 40 , * FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , Gelatin , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Stearic Acid , Talc , Titanium Dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is a combination drug product intended as a treatment for tension headache .
Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine and Codeine Phosphate Capsules consists of a fixed combination of butalbital 50 mg , acetaminophen 325 mg and caffeine 40 mg .
The role each component plays in the relief of the complex of symptoms known as tension headache is incompletely understood .
Pharmacokinetics The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Codeine Codeine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
It is rapidly distributed from the intravascular spaces to the various body tissues , with preferential uptake by parenchymatous organs such as the liver , spleen and kidney .
Codeine crosses the blood - brain barrier , and is found in fetal tissue and breast milk .
The plasma concentration does not correlate with brain concentration or relief of pain ; however , codeine is not bound to plasma proteins and does not accumulate in body tissues .
The plasma half - life is about 2 . 9 hours .
The elimination of codeine is primarily via the kidneys , and about 90 % of an oral dose is excreted by the kidneys within 24 hours of dosing .
The urinary secretion products consist of free and glucuronide conjugated codeine ( about 70 % ) , free and conjugated norcodeine ( about 10 % ) , free and conjugated morphine ( about 10 % ) , normorphine ( about 4 % ) , and hydrocodone ( 1 % ) .
The remainder of the dose is excreted in the feces .
At therapeutic doses , the analgesic effect reaches a peak within 2 hours and persists between 4 and 6 hours .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Butalbital Butalbital is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is expected to distribute to most tissues in the body .
Barbiturates in general may appear in breast milk and readily cross the placental barrier .
They are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree and binding increases directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Elimination of butalbital is primarily via the kidney ( 59 % to 88 % of the dose ) as unchanged drug or metabolites .
The plasma half - life is about 35 hours .
Urinary excretion products include parent drug ( about 3 . 6 % of the dose ) , 5 - isobutyl - 5 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) barbituric acid ( about 24 % of the dose ) , 5 - allyl - 5 ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 4 . 8 % of the dose ) , products with the barbituric acid ring hydrolyzed with excretion of urea ( about 14 % of the dose ) , as well as unidentified materials .
Of the material excreted in the urine , 32 % is conjugated .
The in vitro plasma protein binding of butalbital is 45 % over the concentration range of 0 . 5 to 20 mcg / mL .
This falls within the range of plasma protein binding ( 20 % to 45 % ) reported with other barbiturates such as phenobarbital , pentobarbital , and secobarbital sodium .
The plasma - to - blood concentration ratio was almost unity indicating that there is no preferential distribution of butalbital into either plasma or blood cells .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Caffeine Like most xanthines , caffeine is rapidly absorbed and distributed in all body tissues and fluids , including the CNS , fetal tissues , and breast milk .
Caffeine is cleared through metabolism and excretion in the urine .
The plasma half - life is about 3 hours .
Hepatic biotransformation prior to excretion results in about equal amounts of 1 - methylxanthine and 1 - methyluric acid .
Of the 70 % of the dose that is recovered in the urine , only 3 % is unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Acetaminophen Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable .
Caution in this regard is required because codeine and butalbital are habit - forming and potentially abusable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This combination product is contraindicated under the following conditions : - Hypersensitivity or intolerance to acetaminophen , caffeine , butalbital , or codeine .
- Patients with porphyria .
WARNINGS In the presence of head injury or other intracranial lesions , the respiratory depressant effects of codeine and other narcotics may be markedly enhanced , as well as their capacity for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure .
Narcotics also produce other CNS depressant effects , such as drowsiness , that may further obscure the clinical course of the patients with head injuries .
Codeine or other narcotics may obscure signs on which to judge the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Butalbital and codeine are both habit - forming and potentially abusable .
Consequently , the extended use of this combination product is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONS General Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules should be prescribed with caution in certain special - risk patients such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , head injuries , elevated intracranial pressure , acute abdominal conditions , hypothyroidism , urethral stricture , Addison ' s disease , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Ultra - rapid Metabolizers of Codeine Some individuals may be ultra - rapid metabolizers due to a specific CYP2D6 * 2x2 genotype .
These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite , morphine , more rapidly and completely than other people .
This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels .
Even at labeled dosage regimens , individuals who are ultra - rapid metabolizers may experience overdose symptoms such as extreme sleepiness , confusion or shallow breathing .
The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 0 . 5 to 1 % in Chinese and Japanese , 0 . 5 to 1 % in Hispanics , 1 - 10 % in Caucasians , 3 % in African Americans , and 16 - 28 % in North Africans , Ethiopians and Arabs .
Data is not available for other ethnic groups .
When physicians prescribe codeine - containing drugs , they should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and should inform their patients about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers ) FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( Tartrazine ) This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Information for Patients Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking this combination product .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression when taken with this combination product and should be avoided .
Codeine and butalbital may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
For information on use in geriatric patients , see PRECAUTIONS / Geriatric Use .
Caution patients that some people have a variation in a liver enzyme and change codeine into morphine more rapidly and completely than other people .
These people are ultra - rapid metabolizers and are more likely to have higher - than - normal levels of morphine in their blood after taking codeine which can result in overdose symptoms such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing .
In most cases , it is unknown if someone is an ultra - rapid codeine metabolizer .
Nursing mothers taking codeine can also have higher morphine levels in their breast milk if they are ultra - rapid metabolizers .
These higher levels of morphine in breast milk may lead to life - threatening or fatal side effects in nursing babies .
Instruct nursing mothers to watch for signs of morphine toxicity in their infants including increased sleepiness ( more than usual ) , difficulty breastfeeding , breathing difficulties , or limpness .
Instruct nursing mothers to talk to the baby ' s doctor immediately if they notice these signs and , if they cannot reach the doctor right away , to take the baby to an emergency room or call 911 ( or local emergency services ) .
Laboratory Tests In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules may enhance the effects of : - Other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide , sedative - hypnotics , or other CNS depressants , causing increased CNS depression .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Codeine Codeine may increase serum amylase levels .
Acetaminophen Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen , codeine and butalbital have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis .
No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen and butalbital have a potential for impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules .
It is also not known whether Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This combination product should be given to a pregnant woman only when clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Withdrawal seizures were reported in a two - day - old male infant whose mother had taken a butalbital - containing drug during the last 2 months of pregnancy .
Butalbital was found in the infant ' s serum .
The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg / kg , which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms .
Labor and Delivery Use of codeine during labor may lead to respiratory depression in the neonate .
Nursing Mothers Caffeine , barbiturates , acetaminophen and codeine are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine and Codeine Phosphate Capsules , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Codeine is secreted into human milk .
In women with normal codeine metabolism ( normal CYP2D6 activity ) , the amount of codeine secreted into human milk is low and dose - dependent .
Despite the common use of codeine products to manage postpartum pain , reports of adverse events in infants are rare .
However , some women are ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine .
These women achieve higher - than - expected serum levels of codeine ' s active metabolite , morphine , leading to higher - than - expected levels of morphine in breast milk and potentially dangerously high serum morphine levels in their breastfed infants .
Therefore , maternal use of codeine can potentially lead to serious adverse reactions , including death , in nursing infants .
The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 0 . 5 to 1 % in Chinese and Japanese , 0 . 5 to 1 % in Hispanics , 1 - 10 % in Caucasians , 3 % in African Americans , and 16 - 28 % in North Africans , Ethiopians and Arabs .
Data is not available for other ethnic groups .
The risk of infant exposure to codeine and morphine through breast milk should be weighed against the benefits of breastfeeding for both the mother and baby .
Caution should be exercised when codeine is administered to a nursing woman .
If a codeine containing product is selected , the lowest dose should be prescribed for the shortest period of time to achieve the desired clinical effect .
Mothers using codeine should be informed about when to seek immediate medical care and how to identify the signs and symptoms of neonatal toxicity , such as drowsiness or sedation , difficulty breastfeeding , breathing difficulties , and decreased tone , in their baby .
Nursing mothers who are ultra - rapid metabolizers may also experience overdose symptoms such as extreme sleepiness , confusion or shallow breathing .
Prescribers should closely monitor mother - infant pairs and notify treating pediatricians about the use of codeine during breastfeeding .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General , Ultra - rapid Metabolizers of Codeine ) Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Butalbital is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed : The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness , lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and intoxicated feeling .
Infrequently Observed : All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent .
Central Nervous : headache , shaky feeling , tingling , agitation , fainting , fatigue , heavy eyelids , high energy , hot spells , numbness , sluggishness , seizure .
Mental confusion , excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance , particularly in elderly or debilitated patients , or due to overdosage of butalbital .
Autonomic Nervous : dry mouth , hyperhidrosis .
Gastrointestinal : difficulty swallowing , heartburn , flatulence , constipation .
Cardiovascular : tachycardia .
Musculoskeletal : leg pain , muscle fatigue .
Genitourinary : diuresis .
Miscellaneous : pruritus , fever , earache , nasal congestion , tinnitus , euphoria , allergic reactions .
The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal ® [ 1 ] with Codeine , a related product containing aspirin , butalbital , caffeine , and codeine phosphate .
Central Nervous : abuse , addiction , anxiety , disorientation , hallucination , hyperactivity , insomnia , libido decrease , nervousness , neuropathy , psychosis , sexual activity increase , slurred speech , twitching , unconsciousness , vertigo .
Autonomic Nervous : epistaxis , flushing , miosis , salivation .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , appetite increased , diarrhea , esophagitis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal spasms , hiccup , mouth burning , pyloric ulcer .
Cardiovascular : chest pain , hypotensive reaction , palpitations , syncope .
Skin : erythema , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , hives , rash , toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Urinary : kidney impairment , urinary difficulty .
Miscellaneous : allergic reaction , anaphylactic shock , cholangiocarcinoma , drug interaction with erythromycin ( stomach upset ) , edema .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules .
Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
Acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Caffeine : cardiac stimulation , irritability , tremor , dependence , nephrotoxicity , hyperglycemia .
Codeine : nausea , vomiting , drowsiness , lightheadedness , constipation , pruritus .
Several cases of dermatological reactions , including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme , have been reported for Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine and Codeine Phosphate Capsules , USP .
[ 1 ] Fiorinal ® is a registered trademark of Watson Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is controlled by the Drug Enforcement Administration and is classified under Schedule III .
Abuse and Dependence Codeine Codeine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and , therefore , has the potential for being abused .
Psychological dependence , physical dependence , and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration and it should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other oral narcotic medications .
Butalbital Barbiturates may be habit - forming Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1 , 500 mg .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than two - fold .
As this occurs , the margin between an intoxication dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of these drugs .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
One method involves initiating treatment at the patient ' s regular dosage level and gradually decreasing the daily dosage as tolerated by the patient .
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage of Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules , toxicity may result from the barbiturate , the codeine , or the acetaminophen .
Toxicity due to the caffeine is less likely , due to the relatively small amounts in this formulation .
Signs and Symptoms Toxicity from barbiturate poisoning includes drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; and hypovolemic shock .
Toxicity from codeine poisoning includes the opioid triad of : pinpoint pupils , depression of respiration , and loss of consciousness .
Convulsions may occur .
In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necroses , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
In adults hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 grams , or fatalities with less than 15 grams .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , and delirium , tachycardia , and extrasystoles .
Treatment A single or multiple overdose with Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically , or with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert ( adequate pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes ) .
Oral activated charcoal ( 1 g / kg ) should follow gastric emptying .
The first dose should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic .
If repeated doses are used , the cathartic might be included with alternate doses as required .
Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should respond to fluids .
The value of vasopressor agents such as norepinephrine or phenylephrine hydrochloride in treating hypotension is questionable since they increase vasoconstriction and decrease blood flow .
However , if prolonged support of blood pressure is required , norepinephrine bitartrate ( Levophed ® ) [ 1 ] may be given I . V . with the usual precautions and serial blood pressure monitoring .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and , when necessary , to provide assisted respiration .
If renal function is normal , forced diuresis may aid in the elimination of the barbiturate .
Alkalinization of the urine increases renal excretion of some barbiturates , especially phenobarbital .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , or preferably hemodialysis may be considered .
If hypoprothrombinemia occurs due to acetaminophen overdose , vitamin K should be administered intravenously .
Naloxone , a narcotic antagonist , can reverse respiratory depression and coma associated with opioid overdose .
Naloxone 0 . 4 to 2 mg is given parenterally .
Since the duration of action of codeine may exceed that of the naloxone , the patient should be kept under continuous surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
A narcotic antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
If the dose of acetaminophen may have exceeded 140 mg / kg , N - acetyl - cysteine should be administered as early as possible .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained , since levels 4 or more hours following ingestion help predict acetaminophen toxicity .
Do not await acetaminophen assay results before initiating treatment .
Hepatic enzymes should be obtained initially , and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Methemoglobinemia over 30 % should be treated with methylene blue by slow intravenous administration .
[ 1 ] Levophed ® is a registered Trademark of Hospira , Inc .
Toxic doses ( for adults ) Butalbital : toxic dose 1 g ( 20 capsules ) Acetaminophen : toxic dose 10 g ( 30 capsules ) Caffeine : toxic dose 1 g ( 25 capsules ) Codeine : toxic dose 240 mg ( 8 capsules ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two capsules every four hours .
Total daily dosage should not exceed six capsules .
Extended and repeated use of this combination product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence .
HOW SUPPLIED Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules : Dark blue , opaque cap with a gray , opaque body , and body is imprinted with " B 073 " in black ink .
Bottles of 100 ' s ( NDC 51991 - 073 - 01 ) Store and Dispense Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) in a tight , light - resistant container .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Nexgen Pharma , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 Distributed by : Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Boca Raton , FL 33847 6670 ( Rev . 10 / 08 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Capsule Bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 2012 - XX NDC 68258 - 2012 - 09 Butalbital , Acetaminophen , Caffeine , and Codeine Phosphate Capsules CIII Codeine Phosphate , USP ........................................ 30 mg Butalbital , USP ........................................................
50 mg Caffeine , USP .........................................................
40 mg Acetaminophen , USP ..............................................
325 mg Rx Only 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ]
