DESCRIPTION MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % is an adrenocortical steroid prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic suspension .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Each mL of MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % contains : Active : dexamethasone 0 . 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Vehicle : hypromellose 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : citric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , polysorbate 80 , purified water , and sodium chloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dexamethasone suppresses the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and it probably delays or slows healing .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe , such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitides when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation ; corneal injury from chemical , radiation , or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in acute , untreated bacterial infections ; mycobacterial ocular infections ; epithelial herpes simplex ( dendritic keratitis ) ; vaccinia , varicella , and most other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva ; fungal disease of ocular structures ; and in those persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Prolonged use may result in ocular hypertension and / or glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions or parasitic infections of the eye , corticosteroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical corticosteroids .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex other than epithelial herpes simplex keratitis , in which it is contraindicated , requires great caution ; periodic slit - lamp microscopy is essential .
PRECAUTIONS General FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged corticosteroid dosing .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
The preservative in MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % should not be administered while wearing soft contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % .
Pregnancy Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , prolonged or repeated corticoid use during pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of intra - uterine growth retardation .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MAXIDEX ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of MAXIDEX have been established in the pediatric patients .
Use of MAXIDEX in all pediatric age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of MAXIDEX in adults with safety data from additional adequate and well - controlled trials in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects ; cataract formation ; secondary ocular infection following suppression of host response ; and perforation of the globe may occur .
Clinical Studies Experience In clinical studies with MAXIDEX , the most frequently reports adverse reactions were ocular discomfort occurring in approximately 10 % of the patients and eye irritation occurring in approximately 1 % of the patients .
All other adverse reactions from these studies occurred with a frequency less than 1 % , including keratitis , conjunctivitis , dry eye , photophobia , blurred vision , eye pruritis , foreign body sensation , increased lacrimation , abnormal ocular sensation , eyelid margin crusting , and ocular hyperemia .
Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions identified from post - marketing use include corneal erosion , dizziness , eye pain , eyelid ptosis , headache , hypersensitivity reactions , and mydriasis .
Frequencies cannot be estimated from the available data .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone use : Cushing ’ s syndrome and adrenal suppression may occur after use of dexamethasone in excess of the listed dosing instructions in predisposed patients , including children and patients treated with CYP3A4 inhibitors .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
One or two drops topically in the conjunctival sac ( s ) .
In severe disease , drops may be used hourly , being tapered to discontinuation as the inflammation subsides .
In mild disease , drops may be used up to four to six times daily .
Not more than one bottle should be prescribed initially , and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
HOW SUPPLIED MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % in plastic dispensers : 5 mL NDC 0078 - 0925 - 25 STORAGE : Store upright at 8 ° C to 27 ° C ( 46 ° F to 80 ° F ) .
After opening , MAXIDEX can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
© Novartis Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 Revised : January 2022 T2022 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0925 - 25 MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % 5 mL Sterile NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
