1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EXTINA ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis in immunocompetent patients 12 years of age and older .
Limitations of Use Safety and efficacy of EXTINA Foam for treatment of fungal infections have not been established .
EXTINA ® Foam is indicated for topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis in immunocompetent patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use Safety and efficacy of EXTINA Foam for treatment of fungal infections have not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION EXTINA Foam should be applied to the affected area ( s ) twice daily for four weeks .
Hold the container upright , and dispense EXTINA Foam into the cap of the can or other cool surface in an amount sufficient to cover the affected area ( s ) .
Dispensing directly onto hands is not recommended , as the foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin .
Pick up small amounts of EXTINA Foam with the fingertips , and gently massage into the affected area ( s ) until the foam disappears .
For hair - bearing areas , part the hair , so that EXTINA Foam may be applied directly to the skin ( rather than on the hair ) .
Avoid contact with the eyes and other mucous membranes .
EXTINA Foam is not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
• • EXTINA Foam should be applied to the affected area ( s ) twice daily for four weeks ( 2 ) .
• • EXTINA Foam is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS EXTINA ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % contains 20 mg of ketoconazole , USP per gram , supplied in 50 g and 100 g containers .
Foam : 2 % ketoconazole in 50 g and 100 g containers ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • EXTINA Foam may result in contact sensitization , including photoallergenicity ( 5 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) .
• • The contents of EXTINA Foam are flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 2 ) .
5 . 1 Contact Sensitization EXTINA Foam may result in contact sensitization , including photoallergenicity [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Flammable Contents The contents of EXTINA Foam include alcohol and propane / butane , which are flammable .
Avoid fire , flame and / or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
5 . 3 Systemic Effects Hepatitis has been seen with orally administered ketoconazole ( 1 : 10 , 000 reported incidence ) .
Lowered testosterone and ACTH – induced corticosteroid serum levels have been seen with high doses of orally administered ketoconazole .
These effects have not been seen with topical ketoconazole .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions observed in clinical studies ( incidence > 1 % ) were application site burning and application site reaction ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug , and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse reactions that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
The safety data presented in Table 1 reflect exposure to EXTINA Foam in 672 subjects , 12 years and older with seborrheic dermatitis .
Subjects applied EXTINA Foam or vehicle foam twice daily for 4 weeks to affected areas on the face , scalp , and / or chest .
Adverse reactions occurring in > 1 % of subjects are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported by > 1 % Subjects in Clinical TrialsAdverse Reactions EXTINAFoam N = 672 n ( % ) Vehicle Foam N = 497 n ( % ) Subjects with an Adverse Reaction 188 ( 28 % ) 122 ( 25 % ) Application site burning 67 ( 10 % ) 49 ( 10 % ) Application site reaction 41 ( 6 % ) 24 ( 5 % ) Application site reactions that were reported in < 1 % of subjects were dryness , erythema , irritation , paresthesia , pruritus , rash and warmth .
6 . 2 Dermal Safety Studies In a photoallergenicity study , 9 of 53 subjects ( 17 % ) had reactions during the challenge period at both the irradiated and non - irradiated sites treated with EXTINA Foam .
EXTINA Foam may cause contact sensitization .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse events have been identified during postmarketing use of EXTINA Foam : Gastrointestinal disorders : Cheilitis General disorders and administration site conditions : Application site pain and application site burn Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Skin burning sensation and erythema Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on EXTINA Foam use in pregnant women to identify a drug ‑ associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
No reproductive studies in animals have been performed with EXTINA Foam .
In animal reproduction studies with pregnant mice , rats and rabbits both embryotoxic and developmental effects ( structural abnormalities ) were observed following oral dosing of ketoconazole during organogenesis .
Assuming equivalent systemic absorption of topical and oral ketoconazole doses and an EXTINA Foam maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 8 grams ( equivalent to 160 mg ketoconazole ) , embryotoxic effects were observed at 0 . 8 to 2 . 4 times the MRHD and developmental effects were observed at 4 . 8 times the MRHD [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data The animal multiples of human exposure calculations are based on body surface area ( BSA ) comparisons of oral doses administered to animals and an EXTINA Foam maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 8 grams ( equivalent to 2 . 67 mg ketoconazole / kg / day for a 60 kg individual or 98 . 8 mg ketoconazole / m2 / day ) .
Embryofetal development studies have been conducted in mice , rats and rabbits with orally administered ketoconazole .
When orally administered to mice on gestational days 6 through 18 ( covering the period of organogenesis ) , ketoconazole was embryotoxic ( 25 mg / kg and higher ; 0 . 8 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) with a high incidence of resorptions , increased number of stillbirths and delayed parturition .
Delays in maturation were also observed .
There was no evidence of maternal toxicity or malformations at up to 50 mg / kg ( 1 . 5 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) .
No treatment related developmental effects were observed at 10 mg / kg ( 0 . 3 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) .
In the presence of maternal toxicity in rats , orally administered ketoconazole was both embryotoxic ( 40 mg / kg and higher ; 2 . 4 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) , including increased resorbed fetuses and stillbirths , and teratogenic ( 80 mg / kg and higher ; 4 . 8 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) , including syndactylia , oligodactylia , waved ribs and cleft palate .
Additionally , 100 mg / kg ( 6 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) ketoconazole orally administered on a single day during gestation ( gestational days 9 through 12 ) was embryotoxic ( increased resorptions ) .
This same oral dose given on gestation day 12 , 13 , 14 or 15 induced external malformations including cleft palate , micromelia and digital anomalies ( brachydactyly , ectrodactyly , syndactyly ) .
In pregnant rabbits orally administered ketoconazole , evidence of embryotoxicity ( increased resorptions ) was observed at 10 mg / kg ( 1 . 2 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) and higher and an increased incidence of skeletal abnormalities was observed at 40 mg / kg ( 4 . 8 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of ketoconazole in human milk , or the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production after topical application of EXTINA Foam to women who are breastfeeding .
In animal studies ketoconazole was found in milk following oral administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for EXTINA Foam and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from EXTINA Foam or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility In animal fertility studies in rats and dogs , administration of oral doses of ketoconazole between 3 - day and 3 - month periods resulted in infertility that was reversible [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of EXTINA Foam in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age have not been established .
Of the 672 subjects treated with EXTINA Foam in the clinical trials , 44 ( 7 % ) were from 12 to 17 years of age .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 672 subjects treated with EXTINA Foam in the clinical trials , 107 ( 16 % ) were 65 years and over .
Clinical trials of EXTINA Foam did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION EXTINA Foam contains 2 % ketoconazole USP , an antifungal agent , in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam for topical application .
The chemical name for ketoconazole is piperazine , 1 - acetyl - 4 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - imidazol - l - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - , cis - with the molecular formula C26H28Cl2N4O4 and a molecular weight of 531 . 43 .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXTINA Foam contains 20 mg of ketoconazole per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 58 % , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ketoconazole in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of EXTINA Foam has not been established .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a bioavailability study , 12 subjects with moderate to severe seborrheic dermatitis applied 3 g of EXTINA Foam twice daily for 4 weeks .
Circulating plasma levels of ketoconazole were < 6 ng / mL for a majority of subjects ( 75 % ) , with a maximum level of 11 ng / mL observed in one subject .
12 . 4 Microbiology Ketoconazole is an antifungal agent which inhibits the in vitro synthesis of ergosterol , a key sterol in the cell membrane of Malassezia furfur .
The clinical significance of antifungal activity in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or photo - carcinogenic potential of EXTINA Foam .
In oral carcinogenicity studies in mice ( 18 - months ) and rats ( 24 - months ) at dose levels of 5 , 20 and 80 mg / kg / day ketoconazole was not carcinogenic .
The high dose in these studies was approximately 2 . 4 to 4 . 8 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons .
In a bacterial reverse mutation assay , ketoconazole did not express any mutagenic potential .
In three in vivo assays ( sister chromatid exchange in humans , dominant lethal and micronucleus tests in mice ) , ketoconazole did not exhibit any genotoxic potential .
In animal fertility studies , oral ketoconazole impaired both male and female fertility in rats in a dose and duration dependent manner .
In females , oral doses up to 40 mg / kg ( 2 . 4 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) had no effect on fertility , while doses of 75 mg / kg ( 4 . 5 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) and higher decreased the pregnancy rate and number of implantation sites .
In male rats , oral dosing at 200 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) for three days decreased fertility and 400 mg / kg / day ( 24 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) for three days resulted in a complete loss of fertility .
When administered for longer durations ( up to 3 months ) , decreased fertility in male rats was observed at doses as low as 24 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 4 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) .
In male beagle dogs , an oral dose of 25 mg / kg / day ketoconazole for up to 4 weeks ( 5 . 2 times the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) resulted in decreased sperm motility , decreased sperm count , increased abnormal sperm and atrophy of the testes .
These effects were reversed subsequent to withdrawal of treatment .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of EXTINA Foam were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trial in subjects 12 years and older with mild to severe seborrheic dermatitis .
In the trial , 427 subjects received EXTINA Foam and 420 subjects received vehicle foam .
Subjects applied EXTINA Foam or vehicle foam twice daily for 4 weeks to affected areas on the face , scalp , and / or chest .
The overall disease severity in terms of erythema , scaling , and induration was assessed at Baseline and week 4 on a 5 - point Investigator ’ s Static Global Assessment ( ISGA ) scale .
Treatment success was defined as achieving a Week 4 ( end of treatment ) ISGA score of 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( majority of lesions have individual scores for scaling , erythema , and induration that averages 1 [ minimal or faint ] ) and at least two grades of improvement from baseline .
The results are presented in Table 2 .
The database was not large enough to assess whether there were differences in effects in age , gender , or race subgroups .
Table 2 : Efficacy ResultsNumber of Subjects EXTINA Foam N = 427 n ( % ) Vehicle Foam N = 420 n ( % ) Subjects Achieving Treatment Success 239 ( 56 % ) 176 ( 42 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING EXTINA ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % contains 20 mg of ketoconazole , USP per gram .
The thermolabile hydroethanolic foam is available as follows : NDC 0378 - 8136 - 50 50 g aluminum can NDC 0378 - 8136 - 01 100 g aluminum can Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Do not store under refrigerated conditions .
Contents are flammable .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) .
Do not store in direct sunlight .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate container .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Package Insert ) .
Instruct patients on a proper use of EXTINA Foam • • Avoid fire , flame and / or smoking during and immediately following application .
• • Do not apply EXTINA Foam directly to hands .
Dispense onto a cool surface , and apply to the affected areas using the fingertips .
• • Wash their hands after application • • EXTINA Foam may cause skin irritation ( application site burning and / or reactions ) • • Instruct a patient to contact a health care provider if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation and report any signs of adverse reactions .
PATIENT INFORMATION EXTINA ( ex - TEEN - ah ) ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % Important Information : EXTINA Foam is for use on the skin only .
Do not use EXTINA Foam in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
What is EXTINA Foam ?
EXTINA Foam is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat seborrheic dermatitis in people 12 years of age and older with a normal immune system .
It is not known if EXTINA Foam is safe and effective when used to treat fungal infections .
It is not known if EXTINA Foam is safe and effective in children less than 12 years of age .
Before using EXTINA Foam , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EXTINA Foam will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if EXTINA passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with EXTINA Foam .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use EXTINA Foam ?
• • Use EXTINA Foam exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it . See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” at the end of this leaflet for directions about how to apply EXTINA Foam the right way .
• • Apply EXTINA Foam to the affected skin area ( s ) 2 times each day for 4 weeks .
You should apply enough EXTINA Foam to cover the entire affected area ( s ) .
• • Talk to your healthcare provider if your skin does not improve after 4 weeks of treatment with EXTINA Foam .
• • Dispense EXTINA Foam directly into the cap .
Do not dispense EXTINA Foam directly onto your hands , because the foam will begin to melt on contact with warm skin .
• • Wash your hands after applying EXTINA Foam .
What should I avoid while using EXTINA Foam ?
• • EXTINA Foam is flammable .
Avoid fire , flames , or smoking during and right after you apply EXTINA Foam to your skin .
• • Avoid getting EXTINA Foam in or near your eyes , mouth , lips or vagina .
If you get EXTINA Foam on your lips or in your eyes , mouth or vagina , rinse well with water .
What are the possible side effects of EXTINA Foam ?
EXTINA Foam may cause serious side effects , including : • • Skin irritation at the application area ( s ) , including skin reactions caused by exposure to light .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop skin irritation during treatment with EXTINA Foam .
The most common side effects of EXTINA Foam include , burning , dryness , redness , irritation , numbness , itching , rash and warmth at the application site .
These are not all of the possible side effects of EXTINA Foam .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EXTINA Foam ?
• • Store EXTINAFoam at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not store the EXTINA Foam can in the refrigerator or freezer .
• • Keep EXTINA Foam away from heat .
Never throw the EXTINAFoam can into a fire , even if the can is empty .
• • Do not store EXTINA Foam at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
• • Do not break through ( puncture ) the EXTINA Foam can .
Keep EXTINA Foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of EXTINA Foam .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EXTINA Foam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EXTINA Foam to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about EXTINA Foam that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in EXTINA Foam ?
Active ingredient : ketoconazole Inactive ingredients : cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 58 % , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or visit www . extina . com .
This Patient Information leaflet has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Instructions for Use EXTINA ( ex - TEEN - ah ) ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % Important Information : EXTINA Foam is for use on the skin only .
Do not use EXTINA Foam in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
Step 1 : Remove the clear cap from the EXTINA Foam can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Hold the can upright and firmly press the nozzle to dispense EXTINA Foam into the clear cap .
• • Dispense enough EXTINA Foam to cover the entire affected area ( s ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • If the can seems warm or the foam seems runny , run the can under cold water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Pick up small amounts of EXTINA Foam with your fingertips and gently rub the foam into the affected area ( s ) until the foam disappears .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • If you are treating areas such as your scalp , part the hair so that EXTINA Foam may be applied directly to the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Wash your hands after applying EXTINA Foam .
• • Throw away any of the unused medicine that is left in the cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store EXTINA Foam ?
• • Store EXTINA Foam at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not store the EXTINA Foam can in the refrigerator or freezer .
• • Keep EXTINA Foam away from heat .
Never throw the can into a fire , even if the can is empty .
• • Do not store EXTINA Foam at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
• • Do not break through ( puncture ) the EXTINA Foam can .
Keep EXTINA Foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
EXTINA is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies .
© 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . 140985 - 0818 Revised 8 / 2018 DPT : KTCZFO : R2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 2 % NDC 0378 - 8136 - 50 Extina ® ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Rx only 50 g NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
Hold the can at an upright angle and then press firmly to dispense .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Description : EXTINA ® ( ketoconazole ) Foam , 2 % contains 20 mg of ketoconazole , USP per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 58 % , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
Usual Dosage : Use only as prescribed by your physician .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Warning : FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate container .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) .
Do not store in direct sunlight .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Do not store in the refrigerator .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
CFC FREE Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or visit extina . com 117515 - 0118 DPT : 8136 : 50 : 1 C : R1 © 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company Extina is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
