Drug Facts Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Oxybenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients water , ethylhexyl palmitate , isostearyl neopentanoate , propylene glycol , stearic acid , propylene glycol stearate SE , glycerin , talc , dimethicone , cetyl alcohol , magnesium ascorbyl phosphate , tocopherol , ascorbyl palmitate , sodium hyaluronate , lecithin , xanthan gum , sorbitan stearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , ammonium polyacrylate , triethanolamine , disodium EDTA , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , propylparaben , butylparaben , methylisothiazolinone .
may contain ( + / - ) : iron oxides ( CI 77491 , CI 77492 , CI 77499 ) , titanium dioxide ( CI 77891 ) Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Within US 1 - 800 - 950 - 4465 Distributed by : Meaningful Beauty ® Santa Monica , CA 90405 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Tube Box Meaningful Beauty ® Cindy Crawford BB Crème Broad Spectrum SPF 15 • Broad Spectrum SPF 15 helps protect the skin against the sun ' s harmful rays • Designed to help moisturize the skin • Designed to help smooth the appearance of the skin • Dermatologist - tested • Non - comedogenic 1 . 7 FL OZ / 50 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
