Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets Woodward Pharma Services LLC Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( 2 - dimethyl - aminoethyl 2 - methylbenzhydryl ether citrate ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol and has a molecular weight of 461 . 51 .
The molecular formula C 18 H 23 NO • C 6 H 8 O 7 is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablet contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate , USP .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets also contain : calcium stearate , ethylcellulose , and lactose monohydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are indicated as adjunct to rest , physical therapy and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculo skeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS : Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine citrate has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine citrate is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine citrate .
It is also not known whether orphenadrine citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine citrate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions of orphenadrine citrate are mainly due to the mild anti - cholinergic action of orphenadrine citrate and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine citrate has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine citrate is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anti - cholinergic effects .
In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
Treatment for orphenadrine citrate overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anti - cholinergic effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults - Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED : Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets , for oral administration , are available as 100 mg White to off - white , round tablets debossed ' CL 71 ' on one side and plain on the other side and supplied as : NDC 69784 - 905 - 01 bottles of 100 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense contents in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Woodward Pharma Services LLC at 1 - 888 - 514 - 4727 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : Woodward Pharma Services LLC Birmingham , MI 48009 Rev . 09 / 2017 A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
