WELCOME TO THE OBAGI - C RX SYSTEM OF SKIN CARE PRODUCTS !
For external use only Rx only For topical use only Help correct early signs of aging and skin damage before they become a problem !
This early intervention system helps keep your skin protected and proactively addresses emerging signs of skin dmaage to refresh and maintain youthful , healthy - looking skin .
The Obagi - C Rx System is a unique skin care regumen that combines the benefits of both prescription - strength hydroquinone and the power of Vitamin - C . Please read this product infomration prior to use of the Obagi - C Rx System .
Any questions regarding your particular skin care regimen should be directed to your physician .
More information about the Obagi - C Rx System or other Obagi systems is available at our website at www . obagi . com .
Each gram of Obagi - C Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Dry Skin contains : Active ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive Ingredients : propylene glycol , water , ascorbic acid , propylene carbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate Each gram of Obagi - C Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Oily Skin contains : Active Ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive ingredients : water , propylene glycol , alcohol denat . , dipropylene glycol , ascorbic acid , propylene carbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate , fragrance Each gram of Obagi - C Rx System C - Therapy Night Cream contains : Active ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive Ingredients : water , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , sodium lauryl sulfate , TEA - salicylate , lactic acid , phenyl trimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , sodium metabisulfite , ascorbic acid , methylparaben , disodium EDTA , propylparaben , saponins , BHT Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - bensenediol .
Hydroquinone occurs as fine , white needles .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; molecular weight is 110 . 11 g / moL .
Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunblocking agents or sunscreen agents contained in the Obagi - C Rx System sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
The gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
A thin application should be applied once or twice daily or as directed by a physician .
no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure may be limited by using a sunscreen agent , a sunblocking agent , or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent darkening from reoccuring .
Hydroquinoone is a skin - bleaching agent , which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this product .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , product should be discontinued and physician consulted .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Avoid contact with eyes , nose , mouth , and lips .
In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse thoroughly with water and contact a physician .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
The Obagi - C Rx Therapy Night Cream contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general populationis unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
( also see WARNINGS ) Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation , which does not preclude treatment .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can case fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
Pediatric Usage Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the product should be discontinued and physician notified immediately .
People with prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients should not use it .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 C - 25 C ( 59 F - 77 F ) .
Keep out of direct sunlight [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
