Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • Cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and jock itch ( tinea cruris ) • If used daily , can prevent recurrence of athlete ' s foot • Relieves symptoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning , and cracking Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use near heat or flame , or while smoking .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF .
When using this product • Do not get into eyes or mouth • Use only as directed • Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; 2 weeks for jock itch Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Directions • Wash affected area and dry thoroughly • Shake can well and spray a thin layer over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • Supervise children in the use of this product • For athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • Use daily for 4 weeks for athletes foot , ringworm ; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch • If conditions persist , consult a doctor • To prevent athlete ' s foot , apply daily ( morning and night ) • This product is not effective on the scalps or nails • In case of clogging , clear nozzle under running water Other information Store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86ºF ) Inactive ingredient BHT , isobutane ( propellent ) , PPG - 12 - buteth - 16 , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 14 % w / w ) , talc Questions or Suggestions ?
1 . 855 . 763 . 8733 or www . thepodiatreecompany . com .
Our commitment to you is 100 % satisfaction .
If you are not completely satisf ied , please contact us directly for a full refund .
Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
