[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient Zinc oxide 7 . 5 % Directions Gently smooth over cleansed face and neck daily .
Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rash appear .
Keep out of reach of children .
Principal Panel Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] new !
the power of pure ™ puristics ™ totallyageless ™ SPF 15 Daily Anti - Aging LOTION chemical free UVA / UVB protection helps prevent premature skin aging hydrates for younger looking skin 1 . 7 FL OZ ( 50 ml ) Puristics Totally Ageless SPF 15 Daily Anti - Aging Lotion is unique because it starts with purity and ends with purity .
There are no harmful chemicals , fragrances or toxins added at any step in the process .
Powered by a naturally occurring peptide complex and a natural mineral sunscreen , our vitamin enriched product has been proven to be safe and effective .
helps prevent premature skin aging hydrates for younger looking skin hypoallergenic no harmful chemicals Directions for use : Gently smooth over cleansed face and neck daily .
discover the power of pure .
At Puristics , we believe in the Power of Pure .
We think that everything that touches your skin should be pure – without any potentially harmful chemicals seeping in .
So , we ’ ve created our products using the latest science to unleash the power of naturally derived ingredients .
We ’ ve combined them in unique ways to maximize their effectiveness without compromising purity .
Pure .
Safe .
Effective .
naturally preserved & fragrance free no parabens , phthalates or sulfates no animal testing Learn more at www . puristics . com Warnings : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rash appear .
Keep out of reach of children .
Sun Alert : UV exposure from the sun increases the risk of skin cancer , premature skin aging , and other skin damage .
It is important to decrease UV exposure by limiting time in sun , wearing protective clothing and using a sunscreen .
Active Ingredient : Zinc oxide 7 . 5 % A special blend of ( derivation / description ) : purified water , caprylic / capric triglyceride ( coconut / palm ) , octyl palmitate ( skin conditioner ) , squalane ( olives ) , glycerin , sucrose distearate ( sugar ) , sunflower seed wax , palm butter , hydrogenated soybean oil , tapioca starch , citric acid , lauric acid ( coconut ) , sucrose stearate , beeswax , rice bran wax , allantoin , xanthan gum ( fermented sugar ) , rosewood oil , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , sodium hyaluronate ( natural skin conditioner ) , saccharomyces / hexapeptide - 11 ferment extract ( natural collagen builder ) , polylysine ( natural preservative ) , honeysuckle extract ( natural preservative ) © 2010 Distributed by Scerene Healthcare , Inc .
Peapack , NJ 07977 1 - 877 - 267 - 0519 13010210
