HIVES Active ingredient ( in each film - coated tablet ) Fexofenadine HCl USP 60 mg Fexofenadine HCl USP 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Usesreduces hives and relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring .
Warnings Severe Allergy Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • trouble swallowing • dizziness or loss of consciousness • swelling of tongue • swelling in or around mouth • trouble speaking • drooling • wheezing or problems breathing These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health profession immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for " anaphylaxis " or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insect stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
• If you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • • kidney disease . Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• • hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • • hives that do not itch When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • • an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• • symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment • • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children . In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( for 60 mg ) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60 mg tablet with water every 12 hours ; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions ( for 180 mg ) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • each tablet contains : sodium 2 . 7 mg ( for 60 mg ) , sodium 8 . 2 mg ( for 180 mg ) • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 • Tamper Evident : Do not use if imprinted inner safety seal is torn or missing Inactive ingredients anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , stearic acid , opadry pink 03B84893 containing hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , red iron oxide titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 855 - 724 - 3436 Manufactured by : ScieGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hauppauge , NY 11788 USA ALLERGY Active ingredient ( in each film - coated tablet ) Fexofenadine HCl USP 60 mg Fexofenadine HCl USP 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children . In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( for 60 mg ) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60 mg tablet with water every 12 hours ; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions ( for 180 mg ) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • each tablet contains : sodium 2 . 7 mg ( for 60 mg ) , sodium 8 . 2 mg ( for 180 mg ) • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 • Tamper Evident : Do not use if imprinted inner safety seal is torn or missing Inactive ingredients anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , stearic acid , opadry pink 03B84893 containing hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , red iron oxide titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 855 - 724 - 3436 Manufactured by : ScieGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hauppauge , NY 11788 USA Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 180 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 180 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 180 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 180 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
