For oral use only .
Not for parenteral use .
DESCRIPTION Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long - chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane .
The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3 - carboxy - 2 ( R ) - hydroxy - N , N , N - trimethyl - 1 - propanaminium , inner salt .
Levocarnitine is a white crystalline , hygroscopic powder .
It is readily soluble in water , hot alcohol , and insoluble in acetone .
The specific rotation of levocarnitine is between - 29 ° and - 32 ° .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Empirical Formula : C7H15NO3 • Molecular Weight : 161 . 20 Each 118 mL container of Levocarnitine Oral Solution contains 1 g of levocarnitine / 10 mL .
Also contains : Artificial Cherry Flavor , D , L , - Malic Acid , Purified Water , Sucrose Syrup .
Methylparaben NF and Propylparaben NF are added as preservatives .
The pH is approximately 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Levocarnitine is a naturally occurring substance required in mammalian energy metabolism .
It has been shown to facilitate long - chain fatty acid entry into cellular mitochondria , thereby delivering substrate for oxidation and subsequent energy production .
Fatty acids are utilized as an energy substrate in all tissues except the brain .
In skeletal and cardiac muscle , fatty acids are the main substrate for energy production .
Primary systemic carnitine deficiency is characterized by low concentrations of levocarnitine in plasma , RBC , and / or tissues .
It has not been possible to determine which symptoms are due to carnitine deficiency and which are due to an underlying organic acidemia , as symptoms of both abnormalities may be expected to improve with levocarnitine .
The literature reports that carnitine can promote the excretion of excess organic or fatty acids in patients with defects in fatty acid metabolism and / or specific organic acidopathies that bioaccumulate acylCoA esters . 1 - 6 Secondary carnitine deficiency can be a consequence of inborn errors of metabolism .
Levocarnitine may alleviate the metabolic abnormalities of patients with inborn errors that result in accumulation of toxic organic acids .
Conditions for which this effect has been demonstrated are : glutaric aciduria II , methyl malonic aciduria , propionic acidemia , and medium chain fatty acylCoA dehydrogenase deficiency . 7 , 8 Autointoxication occurs in these patients due to the accumulation of acylCoA compounds that disrupt intermediary metabolism .
The subsequent hydrolysis of the acylCoA compound to its free acid results in acidosis which can be life - threatening .
Levocarnitine clears the acylCoA compound by formation of acylcarnitine , which is quickly excreted .
Carnitine deficiency is defined biochemically as abnormally low plasma concentrations of free carnitine , less than 20 µmol / L at one week post term and may be associated with low tissue and / or urine concentrations .
Further , this condition may be associated with a plasma concentration ratio of acylcarnitine / levocarnitine greater than 0 . 4 or abnormally elevated concentrations of acylcarnitine in the urine .
In premature infants and newborns , secondary deficiency is defined as plasma levocarnitine concentrations below age - related normal concentrations .
PHARMACOKINETICS In a relative bioavailability study in 15 healthy adult male volunteers , levocarnitine tablets were found to be bio - equivalent to levocarnitine oral solution .
Following 4 days of dosing with 6 tablets of levocarnitine 330 mg b . i . d . or 2 g of levocarnitine oral solution b . i . d . , the maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) was about 80 µmol / L and the time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) occurred at 3 . 3 hours .
The plasma concentration profiles of levocarnitine after a slow 3 minute intravenous bolus dose of 20 mg / kg of levocarnitine were described by a two - compartment model .
Following a single i . v . administration , approximately 76 % of the levocarnitine dose was excreted in the urine during the 0 - 24 h interval .
Using plasma concentrations uncorrected for endogenous levocarnitine , the mean distribution half life was 0 . 585 hours and the mean apparent terminal elimination half life was 17 . 4 hours .
The absolute bioavailability of levocarnitine from the two oral formulations of levocarnitine , calculated after correction for circulating endogenous plasma concentrations of levocarnitine , was 15 . 1 ± 5 . 3 % for levocarnitine tablets and 15 . 9 ± 4 . 9 % for levocarnitine oral solution .
Total body clearance of levocarnitine ( Dose / AUC including endogenous baseline concentrations ) was a mean of 4 . 00 L / h .
Levocarnitine was not bound to plasma protein or albumin when tested at any concentration or with any species including the human . 9 METABOLISM AND EXCRETION In a pharmacokinetic study where five normal adult male volunteers received an oral dose of [ 3 H - methyl ] - L - carnitine following 15 days of a high carnitine diet and additional carnitine supplement , 58 to 65 % of the administered radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and feces in 5 to 11 days .
Maximum concentration of [ 3 H - methyl ] - L - carnitine in serum occurred from 2 . 0 to 4 . 5 hr after drug administration .
Major metabolites found were trimethylamine N - oxide , primarily in urine ( 8 % to 49 % of the administered dose ) and [ 3 H ] - γ - butyrobetaine , primarily in feces ( 0 . 44 % to 45 % of the administered dose ) .
Urinary excretion of levocarnitine was about 4 to 8 % of the dose .
Fecal excretion of total carnitine was less than 1 % of the administered dose . 10 After attainment of steady state following 4 days of oral administration of levocarnitine tablets ( 1980 mg q12h ) or oral solution ( 2000 mg q12h ) to 15 healthy male volunteers , the mean urinary excretion of levocarnitine during a single dosing interval ( 12 h ) was about 9 % of the orally administered dose ( uncorrected for endogenous urinary excretion ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocarnitine is indicated in the treatment of primary systemic carnitine deficiency .
In the reported cases , the clinical presentation consisted of recurrent episodes of Reye - like encephalopathy , hypoketotic hypoglycemia , and / or cardiomyopathy .
Associated symptoms included hypotonia , muscle weakness and failure to thrive .
A diagnosis of primary carnitine deficiency requires that serum , red cell and / or tissue carnitine levels be low and that the patient does not have a primary defect in fatty acid or organic acid oxidation ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) .
In some patients , particularly those presenting with cardiomyopathy , carnitine supplementation rapidly alleviated signs and symptoms .
Treatment should include , in addition to carnitine , supportive and other therapy as indicated by the condition of the patient .
Levocarnitine is also indicated for acute and chronic treatment of patients with an inborn error of metabolism which results in a secondary carnitine deficiency .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including rash , urticarial , and facial edema have been reported with oral levocarnitine .
Other serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , laryngeal edema , and bronchospasm have been reported following intravenous levocarnitine administration , mostly in patients with end stage renal disease undergoing dialysis .
Discontinue use of levocarnitine and instruct patients to seek medical attention if they experience symptoms suggestive of a hypersensitivity reaction .
PRECAUTIONS General Levocarnitine oral solution is for oral / internal use only .
Not for parenteral use .
Gastrointestinal reactions may result from a too rapid consumption of carnitine .
Levocarnitine oral solution may be consumed alone , or dissolved in drinks or other liquid foods to reduce taste fatigue .
They should be consumed slowly and doses should be spaced evenly throughout the day to maximize tolerance .
The safety and efficacy of oral levocarnitine has not been evaluated in patients with renal insufficiency .
Chronic administration of high doses of oral levocarnitine in patients with severely compromised renal function or in ESRD patients on dialysis may result in accumulation of the potentially toxic metabolites , trimethylamine ( TMA ) and trimethylamine - N - oxide ( TMAO ) , since these metabolites are normally excreted in the urine .
Drug Interactions Reports of INR increase with the use of warfarin have been observed .
It is recommended that INR levels be monitored in patients on warfarin therapy after the initiation of treatment with levocarnitine or after dose adjustments .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mutagenicity tests performed in Salmonella typhimurium , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Schizosaccharomyces pombe indicate that levocarnitine is not mutagenic .
No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of levocarnitine .
Pregnancy Reproductive studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 3 . 8 times the human dose on the basis of surface area and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to levocarnitine .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Levocarnitine supplementation in nursing mothers has not been specifically studied .
Studies in dairy cows indicate that the concentration of levocarnitine in milk is increased following exogenous administration of levocarnitine .
In nursing mothers receiving levocarnitine , any risks to the child of excess carnitine intake need to be weighed against the benefits of levocarnitine supplementation to the mother .
Consideration may be given to discontinuation of nursing or of levocarnitine treatment .
Pediatric Use See Dosage and Administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of oral formulations of levocarnitine were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliability , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Reactions : Various mild gastrointestinal complaints have been reported during the long - term administration of oral L - or D , L - carnitine ; these include transient nausea and vomiting , abdominal cramps , and diarrhea Gastrointestinal adverse reactions with levocarnitine oral solution dissolved in liquids might be avoided by a slow consumption of the solution or by a greater dilution .
Decreasing the dosage often diminishes or eliminates drug - related patient body odor or gastrointestinal symptoms when present .
Tolerance should be monitored very closely during the first week of administration , and after any dosage increases .
Musculoskeletal Reactions : Mild myasthenia has been described only in uremic patients receiving D , L - carnitine .
Neurologic Reactions : Seizures have been reported to occur in patients with or without pre - existing seizure activity receiving either oral or intravenous levocarnitine .
In patients with pre - existing seizure activity , an increase in seizure frequency and / or severity has been reported .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Rash , urticaria , and facial edema have been reported with oral levocarnitine ( see WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of toxicity from levocarnitine overdosage .
Levocarnitine is easily removed from plasma by dialysis .
The intravenous LD50 of levocarnitine in rats is 5 . 4 g / kg and the oral LD50 of levocarnitine in mice is 19 . 2 g / kg .
Large doses of levocarnitine may cause diarrhea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levocarnitine Oral Solution , USP For oral use only .
Not for parenteral use .
Adults : The recommended dosage of levocarnitine is 1 to 3 g / day for a 50 kg subject , which is equivalent to 10 to 30 mL / day of levocarnitine oral solution , USP .
Higher doses should be administered only with caution and only where clinical and biochemical considerations make it seem likely that higher doses will be of benefit .
Dosage should start at 1 g / day , ( 10 mL / day ) , and be increased slowly while assessing tolerance and therapeutic response .
Monitoring should include periodic blood chemistries , vital signs , plasma carnitine concentrations , and overall clinical condition .
Infants and children : The recommended dosage of levocarnitine is 50 to 100 mg / kg / day which is equivalent to 0 . 5 mL / kg / day levocarnitine oral solution , USP .
Higher doses should be administered only with caution and only where clinical and biochemical considerations make it seem likely that higher doses will be of benefit .
Dosage should start at 50 mg / kg / day , and be increased slowly to a maximum of 3 g / day ( 30 mL / day ) while assessing tolerance and therapeutic response .
Monitoring should include periodic blood chemistries , vital signs , plasma carnitine concentrations , and overall clinical condition .
Levocarnitine oral solution , USP may be consumed alone or dissolved in drink or other liquid food .
Doses should be spaced evenly throughout the day ( every three or four hours ) preferably during or following meals and should be consumed slowly in order to maximize tolerance .
HOW SUPPLIED Levocarnitine Oral Solution is supplied in 118 mL ( 4 FL .
OZ . )
multiple - unit plastic containers .
The multiple - unit containers are packaged 24 per case ( NDC 50383 - 171 - 04 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
See USP .
Levocarnitine Oral Solution , USP is distributed by Akorn Operating Company LLC , Gurnee , IL 60031 .
Rx only .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Bohmer , T . , Rydning , A . and Solberg , H . E . 1974 .
Carnitine levels in human serum in health and disease .
Clin .
Chim .
Acta 57 : 55 - 61 .
• 2 .
Brooks , H . , Goldberg , L . , Holland , R . et al . 1977 .
Carnitine - induced effects on cardiac and peripheral hemodynamics .
J . Clin .
Pharmacol .
17 : 561 - 568 .
• 3 .
Christiansen , R . , Bremer , J . 1976 .
Active transport of butyrobetaine and carnitine into isolated liver cells .
Biochim .
Biophys .
Acta 448 : 562 - 577 .
• 4 .
Lindstedt , S . and Lindstedt , G . 1961 .
Distribution and excretion of carnitine in the rat .
ActaChem .
Scand .
15 : 701 - 702 .
• 5 .
Rebouche , C . J . and Engel , A . G . 1983 .
Carnitine metabolism and deficiency syndromes .
Mayo Clin .
Proc .
58 : 533 - 540 .
• 6 .
Rebouche , C . J . and Paulson , D . J . 1986 .
Carnitine metabolism and function in humans .
Ann .
Rev . Nutr .
6 : 41 - 66 .
• 7 .
Scriver , C . R . , Beaudet , A . L . , Sly , W . S . and Valle , D . 1989 .
The Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease .
New York : McGraw - Hill .
• 8 .
Schaub , J . , Van Hoof , F . and Vis , H . L . 1991 .
Inborn Errors of Metabolism .
New York : Raven Press .
• 9 .
Marzo , A . , Arrigoni Martelli , E . , Mancinelli , A . , Cardace , G . , Corbelletta , C . , Bassani , E . and Solbiati , M . 1991 .
Protein binding of L - carnitine family components .
Eur .
J . Drug Met .
Pharmacokin . , Special Issue III : 364 - 368 .
• 10 .
Rebouche , C . J . 1991 .
Quantitative estimation of absorption and degradation of a carnitine supplement by human adults .
Metabolism 40 : 1305 - 1310 .
Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 Rev . 171 : 07 10 / 22 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN NDC 50383 - 171 - 04 Levocarnitine Oral Solution , USP Active Ingredient : L - carnitine 1 g / 10 mL Inactive Ingredients : Artificial Cherry Flavor , D , L , - Malic Acid , Methylparaben NF , Propylparaben NF Purified Water , Sucrose Syrup .
DOSAGE : See package insert .
118 mL ( 4 fl .
oz . )
Multiple unit Container Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
