Protect from light until use .
DESCRIPTION TrophAmine ® ( 6 % and 10 % Amino Acid Injections ) are sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solutions containing crystalline amino acids .
All amino acids designated USP are the " L " - isomer with the exception of Glycine USP , which does not have an isomer .
Each 100 mL contains : Essential Amino Acids 6 % 10 % Isoleucine USP 0 . 49 g 0 . 82 g Leucine USP 0 . 84 g 1 . 4 g Lysine 0 . 49 g 0 . 82 g ( added as Lysine Acetate USP 0 . 69 g 1 . 2 g ) Methionine USP 0 . 20 g 0 . 34 g Phenylalanine USP 0 . 29 g 0 . 48 g Threonine USP 0 . 25 g 0 . 42 g Tryptophan USP 0 . 12 g 0 . 20 g Valine USP 0 . 47 g 0 . 78 g Cysteine < 0 . 014 g < 0 . 016 g ( as Cysteine HCl ∙ H2O USP < 0 . 020 g < 0 . 024 g ) Histidine USP [ 1 ] 0 . 29 g 0 . 48 g Tyrosine null 0 . 14 g 0 . 24 g ( added as Tyrosine USP 0 . 044 g 0 . 044 g and N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine 0 . 12 g 0 . 24 g ) Nonessential Amino Acids Alanine USP 0 . 32 g 0 . 54 g Arginine USP 0 . 73 g 1 . 2 g Proline USP 0 . 41 g 0 . 68 g Serine USP 0 . 23 g 0 . 38 g Glycine USP 0 . 22 g 0 . 36 g L - Aspartic Acid 0 . 19 g 0 . 32 g L - Glutamic Acid 0 . 30 g 0 . 50 g Taurine [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] 0 . 015 g 0 . 025 g Sodium Metabisulfite NF ( as an antioxidant ) < 0 . 050 g < 0 . 050 g Water for Injection USP qs qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 – 6 . 0 ) Calc .
Osmolarity ( mOsmol / liter ) 525 875 Total Amino Acids ( grams / liter ) 60 100 Total Nitrogen ( grams / liter ) 9 . 3 15 . 5 Protein Equivalent ( grams / liter ) 58 97 Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) Sodium 5 5 [ 4 ] Acetate ( CH3COO – ) 54 . 4 90 . 7 Chloride < 3 < 3 [ 1 ] Holt LE , Snyderman SE : The amino acid requirements of infants .
JAMA 1961 ; 175 ( 2 ) : 124 – 127 .
[ 2 ] Rigo J , Senterre J : Is taurine essential for the neonates ?
Biol Neonate 1977 ; 32 : 73 – 76 .
[ 3 ] Gaull G , Sturman JA , Räihä NCR : Development of mammalian sulfur metabolism : Absence of cystothionase in human fetal tissues .
Pediatr Res 1972 ; 6 : 538 – 547 .
[ 4 ] Provided as acetic acid and Iysine acetate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY TrophAmine ® provides a mixture of essential and nonessential amino acids as well as taurine and a soluble form of tyrosine , N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine ( NAT ) .
This amino acid composition has been specifically formulated to provide a well tolerated nitrogen source for nutritional support and therapy for infants and young pediatric patients .
When administered in conjunction with cysteine hydrochloride , TrophAmine ® results in the normalization of the plasma amino acid concentrations to a profile consistent with that of a breast - fed infant .
The rationale for TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) is based on the observation of inadequate levels of essential amino acids in the plasma of infants receiving total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) using conventional amino acid solutions .
The TrophAmine ® formula was developed through the application of specific pharmacokinetic multiple regression analysis relating amino acid intake to the resulting plasma amino acid concentrations .
Clinical studies in infants and young pediatric patients who required TPN therapy showed that infusion of TrophAmine ® with a cysteine hydrochloride admixture resulted in a normalization of the plasma amino acid concentrations .
In addition , weight gains , nitrogen balance , and serum protein concentrations were consistent with an improving nutritional status .
When infused with hypertonic dextrose as a calorie source , supplemented with cysteine hydrochloride , electrolytes , vitamins , and minerals , TrophAmine ® provides total parenteral nutrition in infants and young pediatric patients , with the exception of essential fatty acids .
It is thought that the acetate from lysine acetate and acetic acid , under the conditions of parenteral nutrition , does not impact net acid - base balance when renal and respiratory functions are normal .
Clinical evidence seems to support this thinking ; however , confirmatory experimental evidence is not available .
The amounts of sodium and chloride present in TrophAmine ® are not of clinical significance .
The addition of cysteine hydrochloride will contribute to the chloride load .
The electrolyte content of any additives that are introduced should be carefully considered and included in total input computations .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TrophAmine ® is indicated for the nutritional support of infants ( including those of low birth weight ) and young pediatric patients requiring TPN via either central or peripheral infusion routes .
Parenteral nutrition with TrophAmine ® is indicated to prevent nitrogen and weight loss or treat negative nitrogen balance in infants and young pediatric patients where ( 1 ) the alimentary tract , by the oral , gastrostomy , or jejunostomy route , cannot or should not be used , or adequate protein intake is not feasible by these routes ; ( 2 ) gastrointestinal absorption of protein is impaired ; or ( 3 ) protein requirements are substantially increased as with extensive burns .
Dosage , route of administration , and concomitant infusion of non - protein calories are dependent on various factors , such as nutritional and metabolic status of the patient , anticipated duration of parenteral nutritional support , and vein tolerance .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Central Venous Nutrition Central venous infusion should be considered when amino acid solutions are to be admixed with hypertonic dextrose to promote protein synthesis in hypercatabolic or severely depleted infants , or those requiring long - term parenteral nutrition .
Peripheral Parenteral Nutrition For moderately catabolic or depleted patients in whom the central venous route is not indicated , diluted amino acid solutions mixed with 5 – 10 % dextrose solutions may be infused by peripheral vein , supplemented , if desired , with fat emulsion .
In pediatric patients , the final solution should not exceed twice normal serum osmolarity ( 718 mOsmol / L ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TrophAmine ® is contraindicated in patients with untreated anuria , hepatic coma , inborn errors of amino acid metabolism , including those involving branched chain amino acid metabolism such as maple syrup urine disease and isovaleric acidemia , or hypersensitivity to one or more amino acids present in the solution .
WARNINGS Safe , effective use of parenteral nutrition requires a knowledge of nutrition as well as clinical expertise in recognition and treatment of the complications which can occur .
Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring of parenteral nutrition .
Studies should include blood sugar , serum proteins , kidney and liver function tests , electrolytes , hemogram , carbon dioxide content , serum osmolalities , blood cultures , and blood ammonia levels .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Administration of amino acids in the presence of impaired renal function or gastrointestinal bleeding may augment an already elevated blood urea nitrogen .
Patients with azotemia from any cause should not be infused with amino acids without regard to total nitrogen intake .
Administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states , or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the solutions .
Administration of amino acid solutions to a patient with hepatic insufficiency may result in plasma amino acid imbalances , hyperammonemia , prerenal azotemia , stupor and coma .
Hyperammonemia is of special significance in infants as its occurrence in the syndrome caused by genetic metabolic defects is sometimes associated , although not necessarily in a causal relationship , with mental retardation .
This reaction appears to be dose related and is more likely to develop during prolonged therapy .
It is essential that blood ammonia be measured frequently in infants .
The mechanisms of this reaction are not clearly defined but may involve genetic defects and immature or subclinically impaired liver function .
Conservative doses of amino acids should be given , dictated by the nutritional status of the patient .
Should symptoms of hyperammonemia develop , amino acid administration should be discontinued and the patient ' s clinical status reevaluated .
This product contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements .
Strongly hypertonic nutrient solutions should be administered via an intravenous catheter placed in a central vein , preferably the superior vena cava .
Care should be taken to avoid circulatory overload , particularly in patients with cardiac insufficiency .
Special care must be taken when giving hypertonic dextrose to a diabetic or pre - diabetic patient .
To prevent severe hyperglycemia in such patients , insulin may be required .
Administration of glucose at a rate exceeding the patient ' s utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia , coma , and death .
Administration of amino acids without carbohydrates may result in the accumulation of ketone bodies in the blood .
Correction of this ketonemia may be achieved by the administration of carbohydrate .
Peripheral administration of TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) requires appropriate dilution and provision of adequate calories .
Care should be taken to assure proper placement of the needle within the lumen of the vein .
The venipuncture site should be inspected frequently for signs of infiltration .
If venous thrombosis or phlebitis occurs , discontinue infusions or change infusion site and initiate appropriate treatment .
In pediatric patients , the final solution should not exceed twice normal serum osmolarity ( 718 mOsmol / L ) .
Extraordinary electrolyte losses such as may occur during protracted nasogastric suction , vomiting , diarrhea , or gastrointestinal fistula drainage may necessitate additional electrolyte supplementation .
Metabolic acidosis can be prevented or readily controlled by adding a portion of the cations in the electrolyte mixture as acetate salts and in the case of hyperchloremic acidosis , by keeping the total chloride content of the infusate to a minimum .
TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) contains less than 3 mEq chloride per liter .
TrophAmine ® contains no added phosphorus .
Patients , especially those with hypophosphatemia , may require the addition of phosphate .
To prevent hypocalcemia , calcium supplementation should always accompany phosphate administration .
To assure adequate intake , serum levels should be monitored frequently .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Use only if solution is clear , the seal unbroken , and vacuum is present .
Drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Laboratory Tests Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration .
Laboratory tests should include measurement of blood sugar , electrolyte , and serum protein concentrations ; kidney and liver function tests ; and evaluation of acid - base balance and fluid balance .
Other laboratory tests may be suggested by the patient ' s condition .
Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No in vitro or in vivo carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or fertility studies have been conducted with TrophAmine ® .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) .
It is also not known whether TrophAmine ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
TrophAmine ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Information is unknown .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised with TrophAmine ® if administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use As in all cases of fluid and electrolyte replacement and parenteral nutrition , careful monitoring and special caution is required in pediatric use , especially in pediatric patients with renal failure , acute sepsis , or low birth weight .
The total volume of nutritional fluid and the rate of administration in each patient will be based on individually calculated maintenance and / or replacement fluid requirements , and nutritional needs , and will vary with the child ' s age , body weight and renal function .
In neonates and very small infants , particularly careful monitoring will be required to maintain fluid and electrolyte balance , including monitoring of blood glucose .
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Geriatric Use TrophAmine ® has not been studied in geriatric patients .
Elderly patients are known to be more prone to fluid overload and electrolyte imbalance than younger patients .
This may be related to impairment of renal function which is more frequent in an elderly population .
As a result the need for careful monitoring of fluid and electrolyte therapy is greater in the elderly .
All patients , including the elderly , require an individual dose of all parenteral nutrition products to be determined by the physician on an individual case - by - case basis , which will be based on body weight , clinical condition and the results of laboratory monitoring tests .
There is no specific geriatric dose .
See WARNINGS .
Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition Administration by central venous catheter should be used only by those familiar with this technique and its complications .
Central venous nutrition may be associated with complications which can be prevented or minimized by careful attention to all aspects of the procedure , including solution preparation , administration , and patient monitoring .
It is essential that a carefully prepared protocol , based on current medical practices , be followed , preferably by an experienced team .
Although a detailed discussion of the complications is beyond the scope of this insert , the following summary lists those based on current literature : Technical .
The placement of a central venous catheter should be regarded as a surgical procedure .
One should be fully acquainted with various techniques of catheter insertion as well as recognition and treatment of complications .
For details of techniques and placement sites , consult the medical literature .
X - ray is the best means of verifying catheter placement .
Complications known to occur from the placement of central venous catheters are pneumothorax , hemothorax , hydrothorax , artery puncture and transection , injury to the brachial plexus , malposition of the catheter , formation of arteriovenous fistula , phlebitis , thrombosis , and air and catheter embolus .
Septic .
The constant risk of sepsis is present during central venous nutrition .
Since contaminated solutions and infusion catheters are potential sources of infection , it is imperative that the preparation of parenteral nutrition solutions and the placement and care of catheters be accomplished under controlled aseptic conditions .
Solutions should ideally be prepared in the hospital pharmacy in a laminar flow hood .
The key factor in their preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and subsequent admixtures .
Parenteral nutrition solutions should be used promptly after mixing .
Any storage should be under refrigeration for as brief a time as possible .
Administration time for a single bottle and set should never exceed 24 hours .
Consult the medical literature for a discussion of the management of sepsis during central venous nutrition .
In brief , typical management includes replacing the solution being administered with a fresh container and set , and the remaining contents are cultured for bacterial or fungal contamination .
If sepsis persists and another source of infection is not identified , the catheter is removed , the proximal tip cultured , and a new catheter reinserted when the fever has subsided .
Non - specific , prophylactic antibiotic treatment is not recommended .
Clinical experience indicates that the catheter is likely to be the prime source of infection as opposed to aseptically prepared and properly stored solutions .
Metabolic .
The following metabolic complications have been reported : metabolic acidosis , hypophosphatemia , alkalosis , hyperglycemia and glycosuria , osmotic diuresis and dehydration , rebound hypoglycemia , elevated liver enzymes , hypo - and hypervitaminosis , electrolyte imbalances , and hyperammonemia in pediatric patients .
Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary , especially during the first few days of venous nutrition , to prevent or minimize these complications .
ADVERSE REACTIONS See " WARNINGS " and " Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition . "
Reactions reported in clinical studies as a result of infusion of the parenteral fluid were water weight gain , edema , increase in BUN , and mild acidosis .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Local reaction at the infusion site , consisting of a warm sensation , erythema , phlebitis and thrombosis , have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions , especially if other substances are also administered through the same site .
If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion , it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation .
Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia .
Relative to calcium , excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps , tetany and muscular hyperexcitability .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The objective of nutritional management of infants and young pediatric patients is the provision of sufficient amino acid and caloric support for protein synthesis and growth .
The total daily dose of TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) depends on daily protein requirements and on the patient ' s metabolic and clinical response .
The determination of nitrogen balance and accurate daily body weights , corrected for fluid balance , are probably the best means of assessing individual protein requirements .
Dosage should also be guided by the patient ' s fluid intake limits and glucose and nitrogen tolerances , as well as by metabolic and clinical response .
Recommendations for allowances of protein in infant nutrition have ranged from 2 to 4 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight per day ( 2 . 0 to 4 . 0 g / kg / day ) .
[ 1 ] The recommended dosage of TrophAmine ® is 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 grams of amino acids per kilogram of body weight per day ( 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 g / kg / day ) for infants up to 10 kilograms .
For infants and young pediatric patients larger than 10 kilograms , the total dosage of amino acids should include the 20 to 25 grams / day for the first 10 kg of body weight plus 1 . 0 to 1 . 25 g / day for each kg of body weight over 10 kilograms .
Typically , TrophAmine ® is admixed with B . Braun ' s 50 % or 70 % Dextrose Injection USP supplemented with electrolytes and vitamins and administered continuously over a 24 hour period .
Total daily fluid intake should be appropriate for the patient ' s age and size .
A fluid dose of 125 mL per kilogram body weight per day is appropriate for most infants on TPN .
Although nitrogen requirements may be higher in severely hypercatabolic or depleted patients , provision of additional nitrogen may not be possible due to fluid intake limits , nitrogen , or glucose intolerance .
Cysteine is considered to be an essential amino acid in infants and young pediatric patients .
An admixture of cysteine hydrochloride to the TPN solution is therefore recommended .
Based on clinical studies , the recommended dosage is 1 . 0 mmole of L - cysteine hydrochloride monohydrate per kilogram of body weight per day .
In many patients , provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria .
To prevent rebound hypoglycemia , a solution containing 5 % dextrose should be administered when hypertonic dextrose solutions are abruptly discontinued .
Fat emulsion coadministration should be considered when prolonged ( more than 5 days ) parenteral nutrition is required in order to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency ( E . F . A . D . ) .
Serum lipids should be monitored for evidence of E . F . A . D . in patients maintained on fat free TPN .
The provision of sufficient intracellular electrolytes , principally potassium , magnesium , and phosphate , is required for optimum utilization of amino acids .
In addition , sufficient quantities of the major extracellular electrolytes sodium , calcium , and chloride , must be given .
In patients with hyperchloremic or other metabolic acidoses , sodium and potassium may be added as the acetate salts to provide bicarbonate precursor .
The electrolyte content of TrophAmine ® must be considered when calculating daily electrolyte intake .
Serum electrolytes , including magnesium and phosphorus , should be monitored frequently .
Appropriate vitamins , minerals and trace elements should also be provided .
Central Venous Nutrition .
Hypertonic mixtures of amino acids and dextrose may be safely administered by continuous infusion through a central venous catheter with the tip located in the superior vena cava .
Initial infusion rates should be slow , and gradually increased to the recommended 60 – 125 mL per kilogram body weight per day .
If administration rate should fall behind schedule , no attempt to " catch up " to planned intake should be made .
In addition to meeting protein needs , the rate of administration , particularly during the first few days of therapy , is governed by the patient ' s glucose tolerance .
Daily intake of amino acids and dextrose should be increased gradually to the maximum required dose as indicated by frequent determinations of glucose levels in blood and urine .
Peripheral Parenteral Nutrition .
For patients in whom the central venous route is not indicated and who can consume adequate calories enterally , TrophAmine ® ( Amino Acid Injections ) may be administered by peripheral vein with or without parenteral carbohydrate calories .
Such infusates can be prepared by dilution with B . Braun ' s Sterile Water for Injection or 5 % – 10 % Dextrose Injection to prepare isotonic or slightly hypertonic solutions for peripheral infusion .
It is essential that peripheral infusion be accompanied by adequate caloric intake .
In pediatric patients , the final solution should not exceed twice normal serum osmolarity ( 718 mOsmol / L ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
TrophAmine ® may be admixed with solutions which contain phosphate or which have been supplemented with phosphate .
The presence of calcium and magnesium ions in an additive solution should be considered when phosphate is also present , in order to avoid precipitation .
Care must be taken to avoid incompatible admixtures .
Consult with pharmacist .
[ 1 ] Suskind RM : Textbook of Pediatric Nutrition , Raven Press , New York , 1981 .
HOW SUPPLIED TrophAmine ® is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 500 mL glass containers with solid stoppers .
NDC REF Units per Case TrophAmine ® ( 6 % Amino Acid Injection ) 0264 - 9361 - 55 S9361 - SS 12 TrophAmine ® ( 10 % Amino Acid Injection ) 0264 - 9341 - 55 S9341 - SS 6 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Protect from light until use .
Rx only Revised : September 2019 TrophAmine is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions for Use of B . Braun Glass Containers with Solid Stoppers Designed for use with a vented set .
Use 18 to 22 gauge needle size for admixing or withdrawing solutions from the glass bottle .
Before use , perform the following checks : • Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the bottle for cracks or other damage .
In checking for cracks , do not be confused by normal surface marks and seams on the bottom and sides of the bottle .
These are not flaws .
Look for bright reflections that have depth and penetrate into the wall of the bottle .
Reject any such bottle .
• Remove plastic cap ( See Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Swab exposed stopper surface with a suitable disinfectant .
Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
• When adding medication to the container prior to administration , swab the target area of the rubber stopper , inject medication and mix thoroughly by gentle agitation .
• Refer to Directions for Use of the set being used .
Insert the set spike into the bottle through the target area of the rubber stopper .
Allow the fluid to flow and remove air from the tubing before administration begins .
Hang the container .
• After admixture and during administration , re - inspect the solution frequently .
If any evidence of solution contamination or instability is found or if the patient exhibits any signs of fever , chills or other reactions not readily explainable , discontinue administration immediately and notify the physician .
• Spiking , additions , or transfers should be made immediately after swabbing stopper surface .
Check for vacuum at first puncture of stopper .
Admixture by needle or syringe should be made through the target area of the rubber stopper ; contents should be drawn by vacuum into the bottle .
Admixture by spiked vial should be through the target area of the rubber stopper ( See Figure 2 ) .
If contents of initial addition are not drawn into the bottle , vacuum is not present and the unit should be discarded .
Each addition / transfer will reduce the vacuum remaining in the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If the first puncture of the stopper is the administration set spike , insert the spike fully into the target area of the rubber stopper and promptly invert the bottle .
Verify vacuum by observing rising air bubbles .
Do not use the bottle if vacuum is not present .
• If admixture or set insertion is not performed immediately following swabbing , swab stopper surface again with a suitable disinfectant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y36 - 003 - 005 LD - 228 - 4 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Container Label TrophAmine ® ( 6 % Amino Acid Injection ) REF S9361 - SS NDC 0264 - 9361 - 55 HK 50115 500 mL Protect from light until use .
Each 100 mL contains : Essential Amino Acids – Isoleucine USP 0 . 49 g Leucine USP 0 . 84 g ; Lysine 0 . 49 g ( added as Lysine Acetate USP 0 . 69 g ) Methionine USP 0 . 20 g ; Phenylalanine USP 0 . 29 g Threonine USP 0 . 25 g ; Tryptophan USP 0 . 12 g Valine USP 0 . 47 g ; Cysteine < 0 . 014 g ( as Cysteine HCl • H20 USP < 0 . 020 g ) Histidine USP 0 . 29 g ; Tyrosine 0 . 14 g ( added as Tyrosine USP 0 . 044 g and N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine 0 . 12 g ) B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Nonessential Amino Acids - Alanine USP 0 . 32 g ; Arginine USP 0 . 73 g Proline USP 0 . 41 g ; Serine USP 0 . 23 g Glycine USP 0 . 22 g ; L - Aspartic Acid 0 . 19 g L - Glutamic Acid 0 . 30 g Taurine 0 . 015 g ; Sodium Metabisulfite NF ( antioxidant ) < 0 . 050 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 525 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 5 ; Chloride < 3 Acetate 54 . 4 ( see Package Insert ) Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only TrophAmine is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Y37 - 002 - 539 LD - 301 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Container Carton TrophAmine ® ( 6 % Amino Acid Injection ) REF S9361 - SS NDC 0264 - 9361 - 55 HK 50115 500 mL Protect from light until use .
Each 100 mL contains : Essential Amino Acids – Isoleucine USP 0 . 49 g ; Leucine USP 0 . 84 g Lysine 0 . 49 g ( added as Lysine Acetate USP 0 . 69 g ) Methionine USP 0 . 20 g ; Phenylalanine USP 0 . 29 g Threonine USP 0 . 25 g ; Tryptophan USP 0 . 12 g Valine USP 0 . 47 g ; Cysteine < 0 . 014 g ( as Cysteine HCl • H20 USP < 0 . 020 g ) ; Histidine USP 0 . 29 g Tyrosine 0 . 14 g ( added as Tyrosine USP 0 . 044 g and N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine 0 . 12 g ) Nonessential Amino Acids – Alanine USP 0 . 32 g ; Arginine USP 0 . 73 g Proline USP 0 . 41 g ; Serine USP 0 . 23 g Glycine USP 0 . 22 g ; L - Aspartic Acid 0 . 19 g L - Glutamic Acid 0 . 30 g Taurine 0 . 015 g ; Sodium Metabisulfite NF ( antioxidant ) < 0 . 050 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 525 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 5 Chloride < 3 Acetate 54 . 4 ( see Package Insert ) See adjacent panel for further product information .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
For Intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only TrophAmine is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
X12 - 002 - 491 LD - 345 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Container Label TrophAmine ® ( 10 % Amino Acid Injection ) REF S9341 - SS NDC 0264 - 9341 - 55 500 mL Protect from light until use .
Each 100 mL contains : Essential Amino Acids - Isoleucine USP 0 . 82 g Leucine USP 1 . 4 g ; Lysine 0 . 82 g ( added as Lysine Acetate USP 1 . 2 g ) Methionine USP 0 . 34 g ; Phenylalanine USP 0 . 48 g Threonine USP 0 . 42 g ; Tryptophan USP 0 . 20 g Valine USP 0 . 78 g ; Cysteine < 0 . 016 g ( as Cysteine HCl • H20 USP < 0 . 024 g ) Histidine USP 0 . 48 g ; Tyrosine 0 . 24 g ( added as Tyrosine USP 0 . 044 g and N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine 0 . 24 g ) B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Nonessential Amino Acids - Alanine USP 0 . 54 g ; Arginine USP 1 . 2 g Proline USP 0 . 68 g ; Serine USP 0 . 38 g Glycine USP 0 . 36 g ; L - Aspartic Acid 0 . 32 g L - Glutamic Acid 0 . 50 g Taurine 0 . 025 g ; Sodium Metabisulfite NF ( antioxidant ) < 0 . 050 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 875 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 5 ; Chloride < 3 Acetate 90 . 7 ( see Package Insert ) Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only TrophAmine is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Y37 - 002 - 523 LD - 299 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Container Carton TrophAmine ® ( 10 % Amino Acid Injection ) REF S9341 - SS NDC 0264 - 9341 - 55 500 mL Protect from light until use .
Each 100 mL contains : Essential Amino Acids – Isoleucine USP 0 . 82 g ; Leucine USP 1 . 4 g Lysine 0 . 82 g ( added as Lysine Acetate USP 1 . 2 g ) Methionine USP 0 . 34 g ; Phenylalanine USP 0 . 48 g Threonine USP 0 . 42 g ; Typtophan USP 0 . 20 g Valine USP 0 . 78 g ; Cysteine < 0 . 016 g ( as Cysteine HCl • H20 USP < 0 . 024 g ) ; Histidine USP 0 . 48 g Tyrosine 0 . 24 g ( added as Tyrosine USP 0 . 044 g and N - Acetyl - L - Tyrosine 0 . 24 g ) Nonessential Amino Acids – Alanine USP 0 . 54 g ; Arginine USP 1 . 2 g Proline USP 0 . 68 g ; Serine USP 0 . 38 g Glycine USP 0 . 36 g ; L - Aspartic Acid 0 . 32 g L - Glutamic Acid 0 . 50 g Taurine 0 . 025 g ; Sodium Metabisulfite NF ( antioxidant ) < 0 . 050 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 875 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 5 Chloride < 3 Acetate 90 . 7 ( see Package Insert ) See adjacent panel for further product information .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only TrophAmine is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
X12 - 002 - 490 LD - 344 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
