Active ingredient ( in each patch [ transdermal system ] ) Oxybutynin 3 . 9 g / day Purpose Overactive bladder treatment Use • treats overactive bladder in women • you may be suffering from overactive bladder if you have had 2 or more of the following symptoms for at least 3 months : ○ urinary frequency ( the need to urinate more often than usual ; typically more than 8 times in 24 hours ) ○ urinary urgency ( a strong need to urinate right away ) ○ urge incontinence ( leaking or wetting yourself if you cannot control the urge to urinate ) • non - drug therapies may also help you ( see the consumer information leaflet inside the package ) Warnings For external use only Frequent urination can also be caused by : • urinary tract infections ( UTI ) • diabetes • early pregnancy • other more serious conditions If you think you might have one of these conditions , it is important to see your doctor before use .
Sleepiness , dizziness , confusion , and blurry vision may occur .
Do not drive or operate machinery until you know how the patch affects you .
Do not useif you • have any of these symptoms , which could be the sign of a UTI or other serious condition .
See your doctor as soon as possible if you have : • pain or burning when urinating .
These symptoms may also be accompanied by a fever or chills .
• blood in your urine • unexplained lower back or side pain • urine that is cloudy , or foul - smelling • are male .
Your symptoms may be due to a more serious condition .
• are under the age of 18 .
It is not known if it works or is safe in children .
• only experience accidental urine loss when you cough , sneeze or laugh , you may have stress incontinence .
This product will not work for that condition .
• have been told by a doctor you have urinary retention ( are not able to empty your bladder ) • have been told by a doctor you have gastric retention ( your stomach empties slowly after a meal ) • have glaucoma • are allergic to oxybutynin Ask a doctor before use if you have • symptoms of diabetes , such as : ○ excessive thirst ○ extreme hunger • unexplained weight loss • liver or kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription medication for overactive bladder • taking any drugs that may cause sleepiness , dizziness , dry mouth , constipation or blurred vision • taking certain antibiotics ( for example , erythromycin , clarithromycin ) or prescription antifungals ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) When using this product • you may have itching , rash or redness where the patch was placed • drinking alcohol may increase sleepiness Stop use and ask a doctor if • you are not able to empty your bladder ( urinary retention ) • condition worsens , or if new symptoms appear • condition does not improve after 2 weeks of use • you have an allergic reaction to this product • you have severe redness , itchiness or blistering at the site of application If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions women 18 years of age and older : How to use the patch : • open 1 pouch and apply patch immediately to a clean , dry and smooth area of skin on your abdomen , hips or buttocks .
• Do not put the patch on oily , damaged ( cut or scraped ) , or irritated ( rashes ) skin .
Do not put the patch on skin with oils , • lotions or powders because that could keep the patch from sticking to your skin .
• wear patch under clothing , do not expose the patch to sunlight • do not cut the patch into smaller pieces • wear only 1 patch at a time for 4 days in a row • after 4 days , remove the used patch and apply a new one • change the patch every 4 days for as long as you use this product • each time you put on a new patch , change the place where you put it ( i . e . , abdomen , hips or buttocks ) • if a patch falls off and you cannot press it back onto your skin , use a new patch How to dispose of a used patch : • when you take off a used patch , fold it in half with the sticky sides together • throw it away so that it cannot be worn or swallowed by another person , especially a child , or a pet Other information • product comes in individual sealed pouches , do not use if pouch is torn or opened • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture and humidity • do not store outside the sealed pouch Inactive ingredients acrylic adhesive , polyester / ethylene - vinyl acetate film , siliconized polyester film , and triacetin Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free : 1 - 888 - OXYTROL ( 1 - 888 - 699 - 8765 ) between 9 : 00 AM and 5 : 00 PM Eastern Standard Time , Monday through Friday © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Made in USA Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc . , Madison , NJ 07940 OXYTROL ® and its design are registered trademarks of Allergan Sales , LLC .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0023 - 9637 - 04 Oxytrol FOR WOMEN 4 PATCHES ( Transdermal systems ) 16 - Day Supply [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0023 - 9637 - 08 Oxytrol FOR WOMEN 8 PATCHES ( Transdermal systems ) 32 - Day Supply [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
