WARNING : RISK OF HEPATITIS B VIRUS REACTIVATION IN PATIENTS COINFECTED WITH HCV AND HBV Test all patients for evidence of current or prior hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection before initiating treatment with HARVONI .
HBV reactivation has been reported in HCV / HBV coinfected patients who were undergoing or had completed treatment with HCV direct acting antivirals and were not receiving HBV antiviral therapy .
Some cases have resulted in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death .
Monitor HCV / HBV coinfected patients for hepatitis flare or HBV reactivation during HCV treatment and post - treatment follow - up .
Initiate appropriate patient management for HBV infection as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF HEPATITIS B VIRUS REACTIVATION IN PATIENTS COINFECTED WITH HCV AND HBV See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation has been reported , in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death .
( 5 . 1 ) Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 8 / 2019 Dosage and Administration Recommended Treatment Regimen and Duration in Patients 3 Years of Age and Older with Genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV ( 2 . 2 ) 8 / 2019 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 3 Years of Age and Older ( 2 . 4 ) 8 / 2019 Preparation and Administration of Oral Pellets ( 2 . 5 ) 8 / 2019 Renal Impairment ( 2 . 6 ) 11 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HARVONI is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 3 years of age and older with chronic hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 and 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] : • genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis • genotype 1 infection with decompensated cirrhosis , for use in combination with ribavirin • genotype 1 or 4 infection who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis , for use in combination with ribavirin HARVONI is a fixed - dose combination of ledipasvir , a hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) NS5A inhibitor , and sofosbuvir , an HCV nucleotide analog NS5B polymerase inhibitor , and is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) in adults and pediatric patients 3 years of age and older : • Genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis • Genotype 1 infection with decompensated cirrhosis , in combination with ribavirin • Genotype 1 or 4 infection who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis , in combination with ribavirin .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Testing prior to the initiation of therapy : Test all patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc .
( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended treatment regimen and duration in patients 3 years of age and older : ( 2 . 2 ) HCV Genotype Patient Population Regimen and Duration Genotype 1 Treatment - naïve without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 12 weeks Treatment - experienced without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 weeks Treatment - experienced with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 24 weeks Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced with decompensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh B or C ) HARVONI + ribavirin 12 weeks Genotype 1 or 4 Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis , or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI + ribavirin 12 weeks Genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 12 weeks • Recommended dosage in adults : One tablet ( 90 mg of ledipasvir and 400 mg of sofosbuvir ) taken orally once daily with or without food .
( 2 . 3 ) • Recommended dosage in pediatric patients 3 years and older : Recommended dosage of HARVONI in pediatric patients 3 years of age and older is based on weight .
Refer to Table 2 of the full prescribing information for specific dosing guidelines based on body weight .
( 2 . 4 ) • Instructions for Use should be followed for preparation and administration of HARVONI oral pellets .
( 2 . 5 ) • HCV / HIV - 1 coinfection : For adult and pediatric patients with HCV / HIV - 1 coinfection , follow the dosage recommendations in the tables in the full prescribing information .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • If used in combination with ribavirin , follow the recommendations for ribavirin dosing and dosage modifications .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • For patients with any degree of renal impairment , including end stage renal disease on dialysis , no HARVONI dosage adjustment is recommended .
( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Testing Prior to the Initiation of Therapy Test all patients for evidence of current or prior HBV infection by measuring hepatitis B surface antigen ( HBsAg ) and hepatitis B core antibody ( anti - HBc ) before initiating HCV treatment with HARVONI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Treatment Regimen and Duration in Patients 3 Years of Age and Older with Genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV Table 1 shows the recommended HARVONI treatment regimen and duration based on patient population .
Relapse rates are affected by baseline host and viral factors and differ between treatment durations for certain subgroups [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
For patients with HCV / HIV - 1 coinfection , follow the dosage recommendations in Table 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Refer to Drug Interactions ( 7 ) for dosage recommendations for concomitant HIV - 1 antiviral drugs .
Table 1 Recommended Treatment Regimen and Duration for HARVONI in Patients 3 Years of Age and Older with Genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCVHCV Genotype Patient Population Treatment Regimen and Duration Genotype 1 Treatment - naïve without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 12 weeks [ 1 ] Treatment - experienced [ 2 ] without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 weeks Treatment - experienced null with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 24 weeks [ 3 ] Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced null with decompensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh B or C ) HARVONI + ribavirin [ 4 ] 12 weeks Genotype 1 or 4 Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced null liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis , or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI + ribavirin null 12 weeks Genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced null , without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) HARVONI 12 weeks [ 1 ] HARVONI for 8 weeks can be considered in treatment - naïve genotype 1 patients without cirrhosis who have pretreatment HCV RNA less than 6 million IU / mL [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
[ 2 ] Treatment - experienced adult and pediatric subjects have failed a peginterferon alfa + / - ribavirin based regimen with or without an HCV protease inhibitor .
[ 3 ] HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks can be considered in treatment - experienced genotype 1 patients with cirrhosis who are eligible for ribavirin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 and 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
[ 4 ] See Dosage and Administration 2 . 3 and 2 . 4 for ribavirin dosage recommendations .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dosage of HARVONI in adults with genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV is one tablet ( 90 mg ledipasvir and 400 mg sofosbuvir ) taken orally once daily with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The daily dosage of ribavirin is weight - based ( 1000 mg for patients < 75 kg and 1200 mg for those ≥ 75 kg ) administered orally in two divided doses with food .
In patients with decompensated cirrhosis , the starting dosage of ribavirin is 600 mg and can be titrated up to 1000 mg for patients < 75 kg and 1200 mg for those ≥ 75 kg in two divided doses with food .
If the starting dosage of ribavirin is not well tolerated , the dosage should be reduced as clinically indicated based on hemoglobin levels .
For further information on ribavirin dosing and dosage modifications , refer to the ribavirin prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 3 Years of Age and Older The recommended dosage of HARVONI in pediatric patients 3 years of age and older with genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV using HARVONI tablets or oral pellets is based on weight ( Table 2 ) .
Table 3 provides the weight - based dosage of ribavirin when used in combination with HARVONI for pediatric patients .
Take HARVONI tablets or pellets ( with or without food ) once daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 7 ) ] .
HARVONI pellets can be taken in pediatric patients who cannot swallow the tablet formulation .
Table 2 Dosing for Pediatric Patients 3 Years and Older Using HARVONI Tablets or Oral PelletsBody Weight ( kg ) Dosing of HARVONI Tablets or Oral Pellets HARVONI Daily Dose at least 35 one 90 mg / 400 mg tablet once daily or two 45 mg / 200 mg tablets once daily or two 45 mg / 200 mg packets of pellets once daily 90 mg / 400 mg per day 17 to less than 35 one 45 mg / 200 mg tablet once daily or one 45 mg / 200 mg packet of pellets once daily 45 mg / 200 mg per day less than17 one 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg packet of pellets once daily 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg per day Table 3 Recommended Dosing for Ribavirin in Combination Therapy with HARVONI for Pediatric Patients 3 Years and OlderBody Weight ( kg ) Oral Ribavirin Daily Dosage [ 1 ] less than 47 15 mg per kg per day ( divided dose AM and PM ) 47 – 49 600 mg per day ( 1 × 200 mg AM , 2 × 200 mg PM ) 50 – 65 800 mg per day ( 2 × 200 mg AM , 2 × 200 mg PM ) 66 – 80 1000 mg per day ( 2 × 200 mg AM , 3 × 200 mg PM ) greater than 80 1200 mg per day ( 3 × 200 mg AM , 3 × 200 mg PM ) [ 1 ] The daily dosage of ribavirin is weight - based and is administered orally in two divided doses with food .
2 . 5 Preparation and Administration of Oral Pellets See the HARVONI oral pellets full Instructions for Use for details on the preparation and administration of HARVONI pellets .
Do not chew HARVONI pellets .
If HARVONI pellets are administered with food , sprinkle the pellets on one or more spoonfuls of non - acidic soft food at or below room temperature .
Examples of non - acidic foods include pudding , chocolate syrup , mashed potato , and ice cream .
Take HARVONI pellets within 30 minutes of gently mixing with food and swallow the entire contents without chewing to avoid a bitter aftertaste .
2 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment of HARVONI is recommended in patients with any degree of renal impairment , including end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) on dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Take HARVONI with or without ribavirin according to the recommendations in Table 1 [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
Refer to ribavirin tablet prescribing information for ribavirin dosage modification for patients with CrCl less than or equal to 50 mL per minute .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS HARVONI is available as tablets or pellets for oral use .
Each dosage form is available in two dose strengths .
• 90 mg / 400 mg Tablets : orange , diamond - shaped , film - coated tablet debossed with " GSI " on one side and " 7985 " on the other side of the tablet .
Each tablet contains 90 mg ledipasvir and 400 mg sofosbuvir .
• 45 mg / 200 mg Tablets : white , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets , debossed with " GSI " on one side and " HRV " on the other side .
Each tablet contains 45 mg ledipasvir and 200 mg sofosbuvir .
• 45 mg / 200 mg Pellets : orange pellets in unit - dose packets .
Each packet contains 45 mg ledipasvir and 200 mg sofosbuvir .
• 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg Pellets : orange pellets in unit - dose packets .
Each packet contains 33 . 75 mg ledipasvir and 150 mg sofosbuvir .
• Tablets : 90 mg of ledipasvir and 400 mg of sofosbuvir ; 45 mg of ledipasvir and 200 mg of sofosbuvir .
( 3 ) • Oral Pellets : 45 mg of ledipasvir and 200 mg of sofosbuvir ; 33 . 75 mg of ledipasvir and 150 mg of sofosbuvir .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin , the contraindications to ribavirin also apply to this combination regimen .
Refer to the ribavirin prescribing information for a list of contraindications for ribavirin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
If used in combination with ribavirin , all contraindications to ribavirin also apply to HARVONI combination therapy .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation : Test all patients for evidence of current or prior HBV infection before initiation of HCV treatment .
Monitor HCV / HBV coinfected patients for HBV reactivation and hepatitis flare during HCV treatment and post - treatment follow - up .
Initiate appropriate patient management for HBV infection as clinically indicated .
( 5 . 1 ) • Bradycardia with amiodarone coadministration : Serious symptomatic bradycardia may occur in patients taking amiodarone , particularly in patients also receiving beta blockers , or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities and / or advanced liver disease .
Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI is not recommended .
In patients without alternative , viable treatment options , cardiac monitoring is recommended .
( 5 . 2 , 6 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation in Patients Coinfected with HCV and HBV Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation has been reported in HCV / HBV coinfected patients who were undergoing or had completed treatment with HCV direct acting antivirals , and who were not receiving HBV antiviral therapy .
Some cases have resulted in fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death .
Cases have been reported in patients who are HBsAg positive and also in patients with serologic evidence of resolved HBV infection ( i . e . , HBsAg negative and anti - HBc positive ) .
HBV reactivation has also been reported in patients receiving certain immunosuppressants or chemotherapeutic agents ; the risk of HBV reactivation associated with treatment with HCV direct - acting antivirals may be increased in these patients .
HBV reactivation is characterized as an abrupt increase in HBV replication manifesting as a rapid increase in serum HBV DNA level .
In patients with resolved HBV infection , reappearance of HBsAg can occur .
Reactivation of HBV replication may be accompanied by hepatitis , i . e . , increases in aminotransferase levels and , in severe cases , increases in bilirubin levels , liver failure , and death can occur .
Test all patients for evidence of current or prior HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc before initiating HCV treatment with HARVONI .
In patients with serologic evidence of HBV infection , monitor for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis flare or HBV reactivation during HCV treatment with HARVONI and during post - treatment follow - up .
Initiate appropriate patient management for HBV infection as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Coadministered with Amiodarone Postmarketing cases of symptomatic bradycardia , as well as fatal cardiac arrest and cases requiring pacemaker intervention , have been reported when amiodarone is coadministered with HARVONI .
Bradycardia has generally occurred within hours to days , but cases have been observed up to 2 weeks after initiating HCV treatment .
Patients also taking beta blockers , or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities and / or advanced liver disease , may be at increased risk for symptomatic bradycardia with coadministration of amiodarone .
Bradycardia generally resolved after discontinuation of HCV treatment .
The mechanism for this effect is unknown .
Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI is not recommended .
For patients taking amiodarone who have no other alternative , viable treatment options and who will be coadministered HARVONI : • Counsel patients about the risk of serious symptomatic bradycardia • Cardiac monitoring in an in - patient setting for the first 48 hours of coadministration is recommended , after which outpatient or self - monitoring of the heart rate should occur on a daily basis through at least the first 2 weeks of treatment .
Patients who are taking HARVONI who need to start amiodarone therapy due to no other alternative , viable treatment options should undergo similar cardiac monitoring as outlined above .
Due to amiodarone ' s long half - life , patients discontinuing amiodarone just prior to starting HARVONI should also undergo similar cardiac monitoring as outlined above .
Patients who develop signs or symptoms of bradycardia should seek medical evaluation immediately .
Symptoms may include near - fainting or fainting , dizziness or lightheadedness , malaise , weakness , excessive tiredness , shortness of breath , chest pains , confusion , or memory problems [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Reduced Therapeutic Effect Due to Use with P - gp Inducers The concomitant use of HARVONI and P - gp inducers may significantly decrease ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plasma concentrations and may lead to a reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI .
Therefore , the use of HARVONI with P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , St . John ' s wort ) is not recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Risks Associated with Ribavirin Combination Treatment If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin , the warnings and precautions for ribavirin , in particular the pregnancy avoidance warning , apply to this combination regimen .
Refer to the ribavirin prescribing information for a full list of the warnings and precautions for ribavirin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling : • Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Coadministered with Amiodarone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• The most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 10 % , all grades ) observed with treatment with HARVONI were fatigue , headache , and asthenia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gilead Sciences , Inc . at 1 - 800 - GILEAD - 5 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin to adults , refer to the prescribing information for ribavirin for a description of ribavirin - associated adverse reactions .
Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects The safety assessment of HARVONI was based on pooled data from three randomized , open - label Phase 3 clinical trials ( ION - 3 , ION - 1 , and ION - 2 ) of subjects with genotype 1 HCV with compensated liver disease ( with and without cirrhosis ) including 215 , 539 , and 326 subjects who received HARVONI once daily by mouth for 8 , 12 , and 24 weeks , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The proportion of subjects who permanently discontinued treatment due to adverse events was 0 % , less than 1 % , and 1 % for subjects receiving HARVONI for 8 , 12 , and 24 weeks , respectively .
The most common adverse reactions ( at least 10 % ) were fatigue and headache in subjects treated with 8 , 12 , or 24 weeks of HARVONI .
Table 4 lists adverse reactions ( adverse events assessed as causally related by the investigator , all grades ) observed in at least 5 % of subjects receiving 8 , 12 , or 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI in clinical trials .
The majority of adverse reactions presented in Table 4 occurred at severity of grade 1 .
The side - by - side tabulation is to simplify presentation ; direct comparison across trials should not be made due to differing trial designs .
Table 4 Adverse Reactions ( All Grades ) Reported in ≥ 5 % of Subjects Receiving 8 , 12 , or 24 Weeks of Treatment with HARVONI HARVONI 8 weeks ( N = 215 ) HARVONI 12 weeks ( N = 539 ) HARVONI 24 weeks ( N = 326 ) Fatigue 16 % 13 % 18 % Headache 11 % 14 % 17 % Nausea 6 % 7 % 9 % Diarrhea 4 % 3 % 7 % Insomnia 3 % 5 % 6 % The safety assessment of HARVONI was also based on pooled data from three open - label trials ( Study 1119 , ION - 4 , and ELECTRON - 2 ) in 118 subjects with chronic HCV genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 infection with compensated liver disease ( with or without cirrhosis ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
The subjects received HARVONI once daily by mouth for 12 weeks .
The safety profile in subjects with chronic HCV genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 infection with compensated liver disease was similar to that observed in subjects with chronic HCV genotype 1 infection with compensated liver disease .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10 % of subjects were asthenia ( 18 % ) , headache ( 14 % ) , and fatigue ( 10 % ) .
Adverse Reactions in Subjects with Cirrhosis The safety assessment of HARVONI with or without ribavirin was based on a randomized , double - blind and placebo - controlled trial in treatment - experienced genotype 1 subjects with compensated cirrhosis and was compared to placebo in the SIRIUS trial .
Subjects were randomized to receive 24 weeks of HARVONI once daily by mouth without ribavirin or 12 weeks of placebo followed by 12 weeks of HARVONI once daily by mouth + ribavirin [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Table 5 presents the adverse reactions , as defined above , that occurred with at least 5 % greater frequency in subjects treated with 24 weeks of HARVONI or 12 weeks of HARVONI + ribavirin , compared to those reported for 12 weeks of placebo .
The majority of the adverse reactions presented in Table 5 were Grade 1 or 2 in severity .
Table 5 Adverse Reactions with ≥ 5 % Greater Frequency Reported in Treatment - Experienced Subjects with Cirrhosis Receiving HARVONI for 24 Weeks or HARVONI + Ribavirin for 12 Weeks Compared to Placebo for 12 weeks HARVONI 24 weeks ( N = 78 ) HARVONI + RBV 12 weeks ( N = 76 ) Placebo 12 weeks ( N = 77 ) RBV = ribavirin Asthenia 31 % 36 % 23 % Headache 29 % 13 % 16 % Fatigue 18 % 4 % 1 % Cough 5 % 11 % 1 % Myalgia 9 % 4 % 0 Dyspnea 3 % 9 % 1 % Irritability 8 % 7 % 1 % Dizziness 5 % 1 % 0 Adverse Reactions in Subjects Coinfected with HIV - 1 The safety assessment of HARVONI was based on an open - label clinical trial in 335 genotype 1 or 4 subjects with HCV / HIV - 1 coinfection who were on stable antiretroviral therapy in Study ION - 4 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
The safety profile in HCV / HIV - 1 coinfected subjects was similar to that observed in HCV mono - infected subjects .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10 % of subjects were headache ( 20 % ) and fatigue ( 17 % ) .
Adverse Reactions in Liver Transplant Recipients and / or Subjects with Decompensated Cirrhosis The safety assessment of HARVONI with ribavirin in liver transplant recipients and / or those who had decompensated liver disease was based on pooled data from two Phase 2 open - label clinical trials including 336 subjects who received HARVONI plus ribavirin for 12 weeks .
Subjects with Child - Pugh - Turcotte ( CPT ) scores greater than 12 were excluded from the trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
The adverse events observed were consistent with the expected clinical sequelae of liver transplantation and / or decompensated liver disease , or the known safety profile of HARVONI and / or ribavirin .
Decreases in hemoglobin to less than 10 g / dL and 8 . 5 g / dL during treatment were observed in 38 % and 13 % of subjects treated with HARVONI plus ribavirin for 12 weeks , respectively .
Ribavirin was permanently discontinued in 11 % of subjects treated with HARVONI plus ribavirin for 12 weeks .
Liver Transplant Recipients with Compensated Liver Disease : Among the 174 liver transplant recipients with compensated liver disease who received HARVONI with ribavirin for 12 weeks , 2 ( 1 % ) subjects permanently discontinued HARVONI due to an adverse event .
Subjects with Decompensated Liver Disease : Among the 162 subjects with decompensated liver disease ( pre - or post - transplant ) who received HARVONI with ribavirin for 12 weeks , 7 ( 4 % ) subjects died , 4 ( 2 % ) subjects underwent liver transplantation , and 1 subject ( < 1 % ) underwent liver transplantation and died during treatment or within 30 days after discontinuation of treatment .
Because these events occurred in patients with advanced liver disease who are at risk of progression of liver disease including liver failure and death , it is not possible to reliably assess the contribution of drug effect to outcomes .
A total of 4 ( 2 % ) subjects permanently discontinued HARVONI due to an adverse event .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials ( less than 5 % ) : The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 5 % of subjects receiving HARVONI in any one trial .
These events have been included because of their seriousness or assessment of potential causal relationship .
Psychiatric disorders : depression ( including in subjects with pre - existing history of psychiatric illness ) .
Depression ( particularly in subjects with pre - existing history of psychiatric illness ) occurred in subjects receiving sofosbuvir containing regimens .
Suicidal ideation and suicide have occurred in less than 1 % of subjects treated with sofosbuvir in combination with ribavirin or pegylated interferon / ribavirin in other clinical trials .
Laboratory Abnormalities Bilirubin Elevations : Bilirubin elevations of greater than 1 . 5 × ULN were observed in 3 % , less than 1 % , and 2 % of subjects treated with HARVONI for 8 , 12 , and 24 weeks , respectively .
Bilirubin elevations of greater than 1 . 5 × ULN were observed in 3 % , 11 % , and 3 % of subjects with compensated cirrhosis treated with placebo , HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks , and HARVONI for 24 weeks , respectively , in the SIRIUS trial .
Lipase Elevations : Transient , asymptomatic lipase elevations of greater than 3 × ULN were observed in less than 1 % , 2 % , and 3 % of subjects treated with HARVONI for 8 , 12 , and 24 weeks , respectively .
Transient , asymptomatic lipase elevations of greater than 3 × ULN were observed in 1 % , 3 % , and 9 % of subjects with compensated cirrhosis treated with placebo , HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks , and HARVONI for 24 weeks , respectively , in the SIRIUS trial .
Creatine Kinase : Creatine kinase was not assessed in Phase 3 trials ION - 3 , ION - 1 , or ION - 2 of HARVONI .
Creatine kinase was assessed in the ION - 4 trial .
Isolated , asymptomatic creatine kinase elevations of greater than or equal to 10 × ULN was observed in 1 % of subjects treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks in the ION - 4 trial and has also been previously reported in subjects treated with sofosbuvir in combination with ribavirin or peginterferon / ribavirin in other clinical trials .
Adverse Reactions in Adults with Severe Renal Impairment , Including those on Dialysis In an open - label trial ( Trial 0154 ) in which adults with HCV with compensated liver disease ( with or without cirrhosis ) and severe renal impairment received HARVONI for 12 weeks ( N = 18 ) , the most common adverse reaction was fatigue ( 17 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
In an open - label clinical trial , Trial 4063 , a total of 95 adults with HCV with compensated liver disease ( with or without cirrhosis ) and ESRD requiring dialysis received HARVONI for 8 ( n = 45 ) , 12 ( n = 31 ) , or 24 ( n = 19 ) weeks .
The most common adverse reactions were insomnia and headache ( each reported in 4 % of subjects overall ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Subjects 3 Years of Age and Older The safety assessment of HARVONI in pediatric subjects 3 years of age and older is based on data from a Phase 2 , open - label clinical trial ( Study 1116 ) .
In total , 226 subjects were enrolled , which included 223 subjects without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis who were treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks ; one genotype 1 treatment - experienced subject with cirrhosis who was treated with HARVONI for 24 weeks ; and two genotype 3 subjects who were treated with HARVONI + ribavirin for 24 weeks .
The adverse reactions observed were consistent with those observed in clinical studies of HARVONI in adults .
Limited safety data are available in pediatric subjects receiving HARVONI for 24 weeks .
No Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions or discontinuation due to an adverse reaction was observed in those pediatric subjects receiving HARVONI for 24 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 7 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of HARVONI .
Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders Serious symptomatic bradycardia has been reported in patients taking amiodarone who initiate treatment with HARVONI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Skin rashes , sometimes with blisters or angioedema - like swelling Angioedema 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Coadministration with amiodarone may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia .
Use of HARVONI with amiodarone is not recommended .
( 5 . 2 , 6 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) • P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , St . John ' s wort ) : May alter concentrations of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir .
Use of HARVONI with P - gp inducers is not recommended .
( 5 . 3 , 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Consult the full prescribing information prior to use for potential drug interactions .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Clearance of HCV infection with direct acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function , which may impact safe and effective use of concomitant medications .
Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters ( INR or blood glucose ) and dose adjustments of certain concomitant medications may be necessary .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential for Drug Interaction As HARVONI contains ledipasvir and sofosbuvir , any interactions that have been identified with these agents individually may occur with HARVONI .
After oral administration of HARVONI , sofosbuvir is rapidly absorbed and subject to extensive first - pass hepatic extraction .
In clinical pharmacology studies , both sofosbuvir and the inactive metabolite GS - 331007 were monitored for purposes of pharmacokinetic analyses .
Ledipasvir is an inhibitor of the drug transporters P - gp and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) and may increase intestinal absorption of coadministered substrates for these transporters .
Ledipasvir and sofosbuvir are substrates of drug transporters P - gp and BCRP while GS - 331007 is not .
P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , St . John ' s wort ) may decrease ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plasma concentrations , leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI , and the use with P - gp inducers is not recommended with HARVONI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Established and Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Clearance of HCV infection with direct acting antivirals may lead to changes in hepatic function , which may impact the safe and effective use of concomitant medications .
For example , altered blood glucose control resulting in serious symptomatic hypoglycemia has been reported in diabetic patients in postmarketing case reports and published epidemiological studies .
Management of hypoglycemia in these cases required either discontinuation or dose modification of concomitant medications used for diabetes treatment .
Frequent monitoring of relevant laboratory parameters ( e . g . , International Normalized Ratio [ INR ] in patients taking warfarin , blood glucose levels in diabetic patients ) or drug concentrations of concomitant medications such as cytochrome P450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index ( e . g . , certain immunosuppressants ) is recommended to ensure safe and effective use .
Dose adjustments of concomitant medications may be necessary .
Table 6 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions .
The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either HARVONI , the components of HARVONI ( ledipasvir and sofosbuvir ) as individual agents , or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with HARVONI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 6 Potentially Significant Drug Interactions : Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction [ 1 ] Concomitant Drug Class : Drug Name Effect on Concentration [ 2 ] Clinical Comment tenofovir DF = tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Acid Reducing Agents : ↓ ledipasvir Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases .
Drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease concentration of ledipasvir .
Antacids ( e . g . , aluminum and magnesium hydroxide ) It is recommended to separate antacid and HARVONI administration by 4 hours .
H2 - receptor antagonists [ 3 ] ( e . g . , famotidine ) H2 - receptor antagonists may be administered simultaneously with or 12 hours apart from HARVONI at a dose that does not exceed doses comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily .
Proton - pump inhibitors null ( e . g . , omeprazole ) Proton - pump inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole 20 mg or lower can be administered simultaneously with HARVONI under fasted conditions .
Antiarrhythmics : amiodarone Effect on amiodarone , ledipasvir , and sofosbuvir concentrations unknown Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia .
The mechanism of this effect is unknown .
Coadministration of amiodarone with HARVONI is not recommended ; if coadministration is required , cardiac monitoring is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
digoxin ↑ digoxin Coadministration of HARVONI with digoxin may increase the concentration of digoxin .
Therapeutic concentration monitoring of digoxin is recommended when coadministered with HARVONI .
Anticonvulsants : carbamazepine null phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with carbamazepine , phenytoin , or phenobarbital is expected to decrease the concentration of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir , leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI .
Coadministration is not recommended .
Antimycobacterials : rifabutin null rifampin null rifapentine ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with rifampin , rifabutin , or rifapentine is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
HIV Antiretrovirals : Regimens containing tenofovir DF without an HIV protease inhibitor / ritonavir or cobicistat ↑ tenofovir Monitor for tenofovir - associated adverse reactions in patients receiving HARVONI concomitantly with a regimen containing tenofovir DF without an HIV protease inhibitor / ritonavir or cobicistat .
Refer to VIREAD or TRUVADA prescribing information for recommendations on renal monitoring .
Regimens containing tenofovir DF and an HIV protease inhibitor / ritonavir or cobicistat • atazanavir / ritonavir or cobicistat + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF null • darunavir / ritonavir or cobicistat + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF null • lopinavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF ↑ tenofovir The safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in the setting of HARVONI and an HIV protease inhibitor / ritonavir or cobicistat has not been established .
Consider alternative HCV or antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in tenofovir exposures .
If coadministration is necessary , monitor for tenofovir - associated adverse reactions .
Refer to VIREAD or TRUVADA prescribing information for recommendations on renal monitoring .
elvitegravir , cobicistat , emtricitabine , tenofovir DF ↑ tenofovir The safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in the setting of HARVONI and the combination of elvitegravir , cobicistat , emtricitabine , and tenofovir DF has not been established .
Coadministration is not recommended .
tipranavir / ritonavir ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with tipranavir / ritonavir is expected to decrease the concentration of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir , leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI .
Coadministration is not recommended .
HCV Products : simeprevir null ↑ ledipasvir ↑ simeprevir Concentrations of ledipasvir and simeprevir are increased when simeprevir is coadministered with ledipasvir .
Coadministration of HARVONI with simeprevir is not recommended .
Herbal Supplements : St . John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) ↓ ledipasvir ↓ sofosbuvir Coadministration of HARVONI with St . John ' s wort , a P - gp inducer , is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
HMG - CoA Reductase Inhibitors : rosuvastatin ↑ rosuvastatin Coadministration of HARVONI with rosuvastatin may significantly increase the concentration of rosuvastatin , which is associated with increased risk of myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis .
Coadministration of HARVONI with rosuvastatin is not recommended .
atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Coadministration of HARVONI with atorvastatin may be associated with increased risk of myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis .
Monitor closely for HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor - associated adverse reactions , such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis .
[ 1 ] This table is not all inclusive .
[ 2 ] ↓ = decrease , ↑ = increase [ 3 ] These interactions have been studied in healthy adults .
7 . 3 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with HARVONI Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of HARVONI ( ledipasvir or sofosbuvir ) or HARVONI , no clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected when HARVONI is used with the following drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : abacavir , atazanavir / ritonavir , cyclosporine , darunavir / ritonavir , dolutegravir , efavirenz , elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide , emtricitabine , lamivudine , methadone , midazolam , oral contraceptives , pravastatin , raltegravir , rilpivirine , tacrolimus , or verapamil .
See Table 6 for use of HARVONI with certain HIV antiretroviral regimens [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : No data are available regarding the safety of HARVONI in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin , the combination regimen is contraindicated in pregnant women and in men whose female partners are pregnant .
Refer to the ribavirin prescribing information for more information on ribavirin - associated risks of use during pregnancy .
No adequate human data are available to establish whether or not HARVONI poses a risk to pregnancy outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes was observed with the components of HARVONI ( ledipasvir or sofosbuvir ) at exposures greater than those in humans at the recommended human dose ( RHD ) [ see Data ] .
During organogenesis in the rat and rabbit , systemic exposures ( AUC ) to ledipasvir were approximately 4 ( rats ) and 2 ( rabbits ) times the exposure in humans at the RHD , while exposures to the predominant circulating metabolite of sofosbuvir ( GS - 331007 ) were ≥ 3 ( rats ) and 7 ( rabbits ) times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
In rat pre / postnatal development studies , maternal systemic exposures ( AUC ) to ledipasvir and GS - 331007 were approximately 5 and 7 times , respectively , the exposure in humans at the RHD .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Ledipasvir : Ledipasvir was administered orally to pregnant rats ( up to 100 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( up to 180 mg / kg / day ) on gestation days 6 to 18 and 7 to 20 , respectively , and also to rats ( oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ) on gestation day 6 to lactation / post - partum day 20 .
No significant effects on embryo - fetal ( rats and rabbits ) or pre / postnatal ( rats ) development were observed at the highest doses tested .
Systemic exposures ( AUC ) to ledipasvir were ≥ 4 ( rats ) and 2 ( rabbits ) times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
Sofosbuvir : Sofosbuvir was administered orally to pregnant rats ( up to 500 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( up to 300 mg / kg / day ) on gestation days 6 to 18 and 6 to 19 , respectively , and also to rats ( oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ) on gestation day 6 to lactation / post - partum day 20 .
No significant effects on embryo - fetal ( rats and rabbits ) or pre / postnatal ( rats ) development were observed at the highest doses tested .
Systemic exposures ( AUC ) to the predominant circulating metabolite of sofosbuvir ( GS - 331007 ) were ≥ 3 ( rats ) and 7 ( rabbits ) times the exposure in humans at the RHD , with exposures increasing during gestation from approximately 3 to 6 ( rats ) and 7 to 17 ( rabbits ) times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether ledipasvir or sofosbuvir , the components of HARVONI , or their metabolites are present in human breast milk , affect human milk production or have effects on the breastfed infant .
When administered to lactating rats , ledipasvir was detected in the plasma of nursing pups likely due to the presence of ledipasvir in milk , without clear effects on nursing pups [ see Data ] .
The predominant circulating metabolite of sofosbuvir ( GS - 331007 ) was the primary component observed in the milk of lactating rats , without effect on nursing pups .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for HARVONI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HARVONI or from the underlying maternal condition .
If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin , the nursing mother ' s information for ribavirin also applies to this combination regimen .
Refer to the ribavirin prescribing information for more information on use during lactation .
Data Ledipasvir : No effects of ledipasvir on growth and postnatal development were observed in nursing pups at the highest dose tested in rats .
Maternal systemic exposure ( AUC ) to ledipasvir was approximately 5 times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
Although not measured directly , ledipasvir was likely present in the milk of lactating rats , since systemic exposure ( AUC ) to ledipasvir of approximately 25 % that of maternal exposure was observed in nursing pups on lactation day 10 .
Sofosbuvir : No effects of sofosbuvir on growth and postnatal development were observed in nursing pups at the highest dose tested in rats .
Maternal systemic exposure ( AUC ) to the predominant circulating metabolite of sofosbuvir ( GS - 331007 ) was approximately 7 times the exposure in humans at the RHD , with exposure of approximately 2 % that of maternal exposure observed in nursing pups on lactation day 10 .
In a lactation study , sofosbuvir metabolites ( primarily GS - 331007 ) were excreted into the milk of lactating rats following administration of a single oral dose of sofosbuvir ( 20 mg / kg ) on lactation day 2 , with milk concentrations of approximately 10 % that of maternal plasma concentrations observed 1 hour post - dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential If HARVONI is administered with ribavirin , the information for ribavirin with regard to pregnancy testing , contraception , and infertility also applies to this combination regimen .
Refer to ribavirin prescribing information for additional information .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety , pharmacokinetics , and efficacy of HARVONI for treatment of HCV genotype 1 and 4 infection in treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced pediatric patients 3 years of age and older without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis have been established in an open - label , multicenter clinical trial ( Study 1116 , N = 226 ; 186 treatment - naïve , 40 treatment - experienced ) and are comparable to that observed in adults .
The safety and efficacy of HARVONI for treatment of HCV genotypes 5 or 6 infection in pediatric patients 3 years of age and older are supported by comparable ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 exposures between adults and pediatric patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 and 2 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 , 14 . 6 , 14 . 7 ) ] .
Similar rationale is used to support dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with HCV genotype 1 infection who have decompensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh B or C ) and for pediatric patients with HCV genotype 1 and 4 infection who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis .
In patients with severe renal impairment , including those requiring dialysis , exposures of GS - 331007 , the inactive metabolite of sofosbuvir , are increased [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No data are available regarding the safety of HARVONI in pediatric patients with renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of HARVONI have not been established in pediatric patients less than 3 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of HARVONI included 225 subjects aged 65 and over ( 9 % of total number of subjects in the clinical studies ) .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment of HARVONI is warranted in geriatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment of HARVONI is recommended for patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment , including ESRD requiring dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
No safety data are available in subjects with both decompensated cirrhosis and severe renal impairment , including those on dialysis .
Additionally , no safety data are available in pediatric patients with renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Refer to ribavirin tablet prescribing information regarding use in patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment of HARVONI is recommended for patients with mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A , B , or C ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Clinical and hepatic laboratory monitoring , as clinically indicated , is recommended for patients with decompensated cirrhosis receiving treatment with HARVONI and ribavirin [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote is available for overdose with HARVONI .
If overdose occurs , the patient must be monitored for evidence of toxicity .
Treatment of overdose with HARVONI consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs as well as observation of the clinical status of the patient .
Hemodialysis is unlikely to result in significant removal of ledipasvir since ledipasvir is highly bound to plasma protein .
Hemodialysis can efficiently remove the predominant circulating metabolite of sofosbuvir , GS - 331007 , with an extraction ratio of 53 % .
11 DESCRIPTION Tablets HARVONI tablets are fixed - dose combination tablets containing ledipasvir and sofosbuvir for oral administration .
Ledipasvir is an HCV NS5A inhibitor and sofosbuvir is a nucleotide analog inhibitor of HCV NS5B polymerase .
Each 90 mg / 400 mg tablet contains 90 mg ledipasvir and 400 mg sofosbuvir .
The tablets include the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing the following inactive ingredients : FD & C yellow # 6 / sunset yellow FCF aluminum lake , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Each 45 mg / 200 mg tablet contains 45 mg ledipasvir and 200 mg sofosbuvir .
The tablets include the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing the following inactive ingredients : polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Pellets HARVONI oral pellets are for oral administration , supplied as small , orange pellets in unit - dose packets .
Each unit - dose of HARVONI oral pellets contains either 45 mg ledipasvir and 200 mg sofosbuvir or 33 . 75 mg ledipasvir and 150 mg sofosbuvir and the following inactive ingredients : amino - methacrylate copolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Ledipasvir : The IUPAC name for ledipasvir is methyl [ ( 2 S ) - 1 - { ( 6 S ) - 6 - [ 5 - ( 9 , 9 - difluoro - 7 - { 2 - [ ( 1 R , 3 S , 4 S ) - 2 - { ( 2 S ) - 2 - [ ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino ] - 3 - methylbutanoyl } - 2 - azabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 1 ] hept - 3 - yl ] - 1 H - benzimidazol - 6 - yl } - 9 H - fluoren - 2 - yl ) - 1 H - imidazol - 2 - yl ] - 5 - azaspiro [ 2 . 4 ] hept - 5 - yl } - 3 - methyl - 1 - oxobutan - 2 - yl ] carbamate .
It has a molecular formula of C49H54F2N8O6 and a molecular weight of 889 . 00 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ledipasvir is practically insoluble ( less than 0 . 1 mg / mL ) across the pH range of 3 . 0 – 7 . 5 and is slightly soluble below pH 2 . 3 ( 1 . 1 mg / mL ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sofosbuvir : The IUPAC name for sofosbuvir is ( S ) - isopropyl 2 - ( ( S ) - ( ( ( 2 R , 3 R , 4 R , 5 R ) - 5 - ( 2 , 4 - dioxo - 3 , 4 - dihydropyrimidin - 1 ( 2 H ) - yl ) - 4 - fluoro - 3 - hydroxy - 4 - methyltetrahydrofuran - 2 - yl ) methoxy ) - ( phenoxy ) phosphorylamino ) propanoate .
It has a molecular formula of C22H29FN3O9P and a molecular weight of 529 . 45 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sofosbuvir is a white to off - white crystalline solid with a solubility of at least 2 mg / mL across the pH range of 2 – 7 . 7 at 37 ° C and is slightly soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action HARVONI is a fixed - dose combination of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir , which are direct - acting antiviral agents against the hepatitis C virus [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology Thorough QT studies have been conducted for ledipasvir and sofosbuvir .
The effect of ledipasvir 120 mg twice daily ( 2 . 67 times the maximum recommended dosage ) for 10 days on QTc interval was evaluated in a randomized , multiple - dose , placebo - , and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) three - period crossover thorough QT trial in 59 healthy subjects .
At the dose of 120 mg twice daily ( 2 . 67 times the maximum recommended dosage ) , ledipasvir does not prolong QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
The effect of sofosbuvir 400 mg ( maximum recommended dosage ) and 1200 mg ( three times the maximum recommended dosage ) on QTc interval was evaluated in a randomized , single - dose , placebo - , and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) four - period crossover thorough QT trial in 59 healthy subjects .
At a dose three times the maximum recommended dose , sofosbuvir does not prolong QTc to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetic properties of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and the predominant circulating metabolite GS - 331007 have been evaluated in healthy adult subjects and in subjects with chronic hepatitis C . Following oral administration of HARVONI , ledipasvir median peak concentrations were observed 4 to 4 . 5 hours post - dose .
Sofosbuvir was absorbed quickly and the peak median plasma concentration was observed ~ 0 . 8 to 1 hour post - dose .
Median peak plasma concentration of GS - 331007 was observed between 3 . 5 to 4 hours post - dose .
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis in HCV - infected subjects , geometric mean steady - state AUC0 – 24 for ledipasvir ( N = 2113 ) , sofosbuvir ( N = 1542 ) , and GS - 331007 ( N = 2113 ) were 7290 , 1320 , and 12 , 000 ng ∙ hr / mL , respectively .
Steady - state Cmax for ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 were 323 , 618 , and 707 ng / mL , respectively .
Sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 AUC0 – 24 and Cmax were similar in healthy adult subjects and subjects with HCV infection .
Relative to healthy subjects ( N = 191 ) , ledipasvir AUC0 – 24 and Cmax were 24 % lower and 32 % lower , respectively , in HCV - infected subjects .
Effect of Food Relative to fasting conditions , the administration of a single dose of HARVONI with a moderate fat ( ~ 600 kcal , 25 % to 30 % fat ) or high fat ( ~ 1000 kcal , 50 % fat ) meal increased sofosbuvir AUC0 – inf by approximately 2 - fold , but did not significantly affect sofosbuvir Cmax .
The exposures of GS - 331007 and ledipasvir were not altered in the presence of either meal type .
The response rates in Phase 3 trials were similar in HCV - infected subjects who received HARVONI with food or without food .
HARVONI can be administered without regard to food .
Distribution Ledipasvir is greater than 99 . 8 % bound to human plasma proteins .
After a single 90 mg dose of [ 14 C ] - ledipasvir in healthy subjects , the blood to plasma ratio of 14 C - radioactivity ranged between 0 . 51 and 0 . 66 .
Sofosbuvir is approximately 61 – 65 % bound to human plasma proteins and the binding is independent of drug concentration over the range of 1 microgram / mL to 20 microgram / mL .
Protein binding of GS - 331007 was minimal in human plasma .
After a single 400 mg dose of [ 14 C ] - sofosbuvir in healthy subjects , the blood to plasma ratio of 14 C - radioactivity was approximately 0 . 7 .
Metabolism In vitro , no detectable metabolism of ledipasvir was observed by human CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
Evidence of slow oxidative metabolism via an unknown mechanism has been observed .
Following a single dose of 90 mg [ 14 C ] - ledipasvir , systemic exposure was almost exclusively to the parent drug ( greater than 98 % ) .
Unchanged ledipasvir is the major species present in feces .
Sofosbuvir is extensively metabolized in the liver to form the pharmacologically active nucleoside analog triphosphate GS - 461203 .
The metabolic activation pathway involves sequential hydrolysis of the carboxyl ester moiety catalyzed by human cathepsin A ( CatA ) or carboxylesterase 1 ( CES1 ) and phosphoramidate cleavage by histidine triad nucleotide - binding protein 1 ( HINT1 ) followed by phosphorylation by the pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway .
Dephosphorylation results in the formation of nucleoside metabolite GS - 331007 that cannot be efficiently rephosphorylated and lacks anti - HCV activity in vitro .
After a single 400 mg oral dose of [ 14 C ] - sofosbuvir , GS - 331007 accounted for approximately greater than 90 % of total systemic exposure .
Elimination Following a single 90 mg oral dose of [ 14 C ] - ledipasvir , mean total recovery of the [ 14 C ] - radioactivity in feces and urine was approximately 87 % , with most of the radioactive dose recovered from feces ( approximately 86 % ) .
Unchanged ledipasvir excreted in feces accounted for a mean of 70 % of the administered dose and the oxidative metabolite M19 accounted for 2 . 2 % of the dose .
These data indicate that biliary excretion of unchanged ledipasvir is a major route of elimination , with renal excretion being a minor pathway ( approximately 1 % ) .
The median terminal half - life of ledipasvir following administration of HARVONI was 47 hours .
Following a single 400 mg oral dose of [ 14 C ] - sofosbuvir , mean total recovery of the dose was greater than 92 % , consisting of approximately 80 % , 14 % , and 2 . 5 % recovered in urine , feces , and expired air , respectively .
The majority of the sofosbuvir dose recovered in urine was GS - 331007 ( 78 % ) while 3 . 5 % was recovered as sofosbuvir .
These data indicate that renal clearance is the major elimination pathway for GS - 331007 .
The median terminal half - lives of sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 following administration of HARVONI were 0 . 5 and 27 hours , respectively .
Specific Populations Race : Population pharmacokinetics analysis in HCV - infected subjects indicated that race had no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 .
Gender : Population pharmacokinetics analysis in HCV - infected subjects indicated that gender had no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 .
AUC and Cmax of ledipasvir were 77 % and 58 % higher , respectively , in females than males ; however , the relationship between gender and ledipasvir exposures was not considered clinically relevant , as high response rates ( SVR12 > 90 % ) were achieved in male and female subjects across the Phase 3 studies and the safety profiles are similar in females and males .
Pediatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 were determined in HCV genotype 1 , 3 , or 4 infected pediatric subjects 3 years of age and older receiving a daily dose of HARVONI as described below in Table 7 .
Exposures in pediatric subjects were similar to those observed in adults .
Table 7 Pharmacokinetic Properties of the Components of HARVONI in HCV - Infected Pediatric Subjects 3 Years of Age and Older [ 1 ] Weight Group Dose PK Parameter Geometric Mean ( % CV ) Ledipasvir Sofosbuvir GS - 331007 ≥ 35 kg [ 2 ] 90 / 400 mg AUCtau ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) 11200 ( 45 . 7 ) 1350 ( 45 . 2 ) 13600 ( 18 . 9 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 550 ( 44 . 2 ) 660 ( 51 . 1 ) 921 ( 17 . 8 ) 17 to < 35 kg [ 3 ] 45 / 200 mg AUCtau ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) 8750 ( 46 . 6 ) 1420 ( 34 . 2 ) 10700 ( 30 . 9 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 440 ( 42 . 7 ) 690 ( 24 . 8 ) 958 ( 26 . 1 ) < 17 kg [ 4 ] 33 . 75 / 150 mg AUCtau ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) 7460 ( 31 . 0 ) 1720 ( 23 . 2 ) 12200 ( 15 . 2 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 405 ( 25 . 7 ) 791 ( 16 . 6 ) 1070 ( 13 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Population PK derived parameters [ 2 ] Ledipasvir N = 100 ; Sofosbuvir N = 72 ; GS - 331007 N = 100 [ 3 ] Ledipasvir N = 86 ; Sofosbuvir N = 66 ; GS - 331007 N = 86 [ 4 ] Ledipasvir N = 9 ; Sofosbuvir N = 9 ; GS - 331007 N = 9 The pharmacokinetics of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 have not been established in pediatric subjects less than 3 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 7 ) ] .
Geriatric Patients : Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HCV - infected subjects showed that within the age range ( 18 to 80 years ) analyzed , age did not have a clinically relevant effect on the exposure to ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Patients with Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of ledipasvir were studied with a single dose of 90 mg ledipasvir in HCV negative subjects with severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min by Cockcroft - Gault ) .
No clinically relevant differences in ledipasvir pharmacokinetics were observed between healthy subjects and subjects with severe renal impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of sofosbuvir were studied in HCV negative subjects with mild ( eGFR between 50 to less than 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( eGFR between 30 to less than 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and subjects with ESRD requiring hemodialysis following a single 400 mg dose of sofosbuvir .
Relative to subjects with normal renal function ( eGFR greater than 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the sofosbuvir AUC0 – inf was 61 % , 107 % , and 171 % higher in mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , while the GS - 331007 AUC0 – inf was 55 % , 88 % , and 451 % higher , respectively .
In subjects with ESRD , relative to subjects with normal renal function , sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 AUC0 – inf was 28 % and 1280 % higher when sofosbuvir was dosed 1 hour before hemodialysis compared with 60 % and 2070 % higher when sofosbuvir was dosed 1 hour after hemodialysis , respectively .
A 4 - hour hemodialysis session removed approximately 18 % of administered dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 were studied in HCV - infected subjects with severe renal impairment or ESRD requiring dialysis treated with HARVONI for 8 , 12 , or 24 weeks .
The results were generally consistent with those observed in HCV - negative subjects with ESRD requiring dialysis .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of ledipasvir were studied with a single dose of 90 mg ledipasvir in HCV negative subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Ledipasvir plasma exposure ( AUC0 – inf ) was similar in subjects with severe hepatic impairment and control subjects with normal hepatic function .
Population pharmacokinetics analysis in HCV - infected subjects indicated that cirrhosis ( including decompensated cirrhosis ) had no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of ledipasvir [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of sofosbuvir were studied following 7 - day dosing of 400 mg sofosbuvir in HCV - infected subjects with moderate and severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C ) .
Relative to subjects with normal hepatic function , the sofosbuvir AUC0 – 24 were 126 % and 143 % higher in moderate and severe hepatic impairment , while the GS - 331007 AUC0 – 24 were 18 % and 9 % higher , respectively .
Population pharmacokinetics analysis in HCV - infected subjects indicated that cirrhosis ( including decompensated cirrhosis ) had no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Ledipasvir and sofosbuvir are substrates of drug transporters P - gp and BCRP while GS - 331007 is not .
P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin or St . John ' s wort ) may decrease ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plasma concentrations , leading to reduced therapeutic effect of HARVONI , and the use with P - gp inducers is not recommended with HARVONI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Coadministration with drugs that inhibit P - gp and / or BCRP may increase ledipasvir and sofosbuvir plasma concentrations without increasing GS - 331007 plasma concentration ; HARVONI may be coadministered with P - gp and / or BCRP inhibitors .
Neither ledipasvir nor sofosbuvir is a substrate for hepatic uptake transporters OCT1 , OATP1B1 , or OATP1B3 .
GS - 331007 is not a substrate for renal transporters , including organic anion transporter OAT1 or OAT3 , or organic cation transporter OCT2 .
Ledipasvir is subject to slow oxidative metabolism via an unknown mechanism .
In vitro , no detectable metabolism of ledipasvir by CYP enzymes has been observed .
Biliary excretion of unchanged ledipasvir is a major route of elimination .
Sofosbuvir is not a substrate for CYP and UGT1A1 enzymes .
Clinically significant drug interactions with HARVONI mediated by CYP or UGT1A1 enzymes are not expected .
The effects of coadministered drugs on the exposure of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 are shown in Table 8 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Table 8 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Ledipasvir , Sofosbuvir , and the Predominant Circulating Metabolite GS - 331007 in the Presence of the Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) Ledipasvir Dose ( mg ) Sofosbuvir Dose ( mg ) N Mean Ratio ( 90 % CI ) of Ledipasvir , Sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 PK With / Without Coadministered Drug No Effect = 1 . 00 Cmax AUC Cmin NA = not available / not applicable , ND = not dosed .
tenofovir DF = tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Atazanavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] 300 / 100 + 200 / 300 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 24 ledipasvir 1 . 68 ( 1 . 54 , 1 . 84 ) 1 . 96 ( 1 . 74 , 2 . 21 ) 2 . 18 ( 1 . 91 , 2 . 50 ) sofosbuvir 1 . 01 ( 0 . 88 , 1 . 15 ) 1 . 11 ( 1 . 02 , 1 . 21 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 17 ( 1 . 12 , 1 . 23 ) 1 . 31 ( 1 . 25 , 1 . 36 ) 1 . 42 ( 1 . 34 , 1 . 49 ) Carbamazepine 300 twice daily ND 400 single dose 24 sofosbuvir 0 . 52 ( 0 . 43 , 0 . 62 ) 0 . 52 ( 0 . 46 , 0 . 59 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 04 ( 0 . 97 , 1 . 11 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 94 , 1 . 04 ) NA Cyclosporine 600 single dose ND 400 single dose 19 sofosbuvir 2 . 54 ( 1 . 87 , 3 . 45 ) 4 . 53 ( 3 . 26 , 6 . 30 ) NA GS - 331007 0 . 60 ( 0 . 53 , 0 . 69 ) 1 . 04 ( 0 . 90 , 1 . 20 ) NA Darunavir / ritonavir 800 / 100 once daily 90 once daily ND 23 ledipasvir 1 . 45 ( 1 . 34 , 1 . 56 ) 1 . 39 ( 1 . 28 , 1 . 49 ) 1 . 39 ( 1 . 29 , 1 . 51 ) ND 400 single dose 18 sofosbuvir 1 . 45 ( 1 . 10 , 1 . 92 ) 1 . 34 ( 1 . 12 , 1 . 59 ) NA GS - 331007 0 . 97 ( 0 . 90 , 1 . 05 ) 1 . 24 ( 1 . 18 , 1 . 30 ) NA Darunavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF null 800 / 100 + 200 / 300 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 23 ledipasvir 1 . 11 ( 0 . 99 , 1 . 24 ) 1 . 12 ( 1 . 00 , 1 . 25 ) 1 . 17 ( 1 . 04 , 1 . 31 ) sofosbuvir 0 . 63 ( 0 . 52 , 0 . 75 ) 0 . 73 ( 0 . 65 , 0 . 82 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 10 ( 1 . 04 , 1 . 16 ) 1 . 20 ( 1 . 16 , 1 . 24 ) 1 . 26 ( 1 . 20 , 1 . 32 ) Efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir DF [ 4 ] 600 / 200 / 300 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 14 ledipasvir 0 . 66 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 75 ) 0 . 66 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 75 ) 0 . 66 ( 0 . 57 , 0 . 76 ) sofosbuvir 1 . 03 ( 0 . 87 , 1 . 23 ) 0 . 94 ( 0 . 81 , 1 . 10 ) NA GS - 331007 0 . 86 ( 0 . 76 , 0 . 96 ) 0 . 90 ( 0 . 83 , 0 . 97 ) 1 . 07 ( 1 . 02 , 1 . 13 ) Elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 150 / 150 / 200 / 10 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 30 ledipasvir 1 . 65 ( 1 . 53 , 1 . 78 ) 1 . 79 ( 1 . 64 , 1 . 96 ) 1 . 93 ( 1 . 74 , 2 . 15 ) sofosbuvir 1 . 28 ( 1 . 13 , 1 . 47 ) 1 . 47 ( 1 . 35 , 1 . 59 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 29 ( 1 . 24 , 1 . 35 ) 1 . 48 ( 1 . 44 , 1 . 53 ) 1 . 66 ( 1 . 60 , 1 . 73 ) Famotidine 40 single dose simultaneously with HARVONI 90 single dose 400 single dose 12 ledipasvir 0 . 80 ( 0 . 69 , 0 . 93 ) 0 . 89 ( 0 . 76 , 1 . 06 ) NA sofosbuvir 1 . 15 ( 0 . 88 , 1 . 50 ) 1 . 11 ( 1 . 00 , 1 . 24 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 06 ( 0 . 97 , 1 . 14 ) 1 . 06 ( 1 . 02 , 1 . 11 ) NA 40 single dose 12 hours prior to HARVONI 12 ledipasvir 0 . 83 ( 0 . 69 , 1 . 00 ) 0 . 98 ( 0 . 80 , 1 . 20 ) NA sofosbuvir 1 . 00 ( 0 . 76 , 1 . 32 ) 0 . 95 ( 0 . 82 , 1 . 10 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 13 ( 1 . 07 , 1 . 20 ) 1 . 06 ( 1 . 01 , 1 . 12 ) NA Methadone 30 to 130 daily ND 400 once daily 14 sofosbuvir 0 . 95 ( 0 . 68 , 1 . 33 ) 1 . 30 ( 1 . 00 , 1 . 69 ) NA GS - 331007 0 . 73 ( 0 . 65 , 0 . 83 ) 1 . 04 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 22 ) NA Omeprazole 20 once daily simultaneously with HARVONI 90 single dose 400 single dose 16 ledipasvir 0 . 89 ( 0 . 61 , 1 . 30 ) 0 . 96 ( 0 . 66 , 1 . 39 ) NA sofosbuvir 1 . 12 ( 0 . 88 , 1 . 42 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 80 , 1 . 25 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 14 ( 1 . 01 , 1 . 29 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 96 , 1 . 12 ) NA 20 once daily 2 hours prior to ledipasvir 30 single dose ND 17 ledipasvir 0 . 52 ( 0 . 41 , 0 . 66 ) 0 . 58 ( 0 . 48 , 0 . 71 ) NA Rifabutin 300 once daily ND 400 single dose 20 sofosbuvir 0 . 64 ( 0 . 53 , 0 . 77 ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 63 , 0 . 91 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 15 ( 1 . 03 , 1 . 27 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 95 , 1 . 12 ) NA Rifampin 600 once daily 90 single dose [ 5 ] ND 31 ledipasvir 0 . 65 ( 0 . 56 , 0 . 76 ) 0 . 41 ( 0 . 36 , 0 . 48 ) NA ND 400 single dose 17 sofosbuvir 0 . 23 ( 0 . 19 , 0 . 29 ) 0 . 28 ( 0 . 24 , 0 . 32 ) NA GS - 331007 1 . 23 ( 1 . 14 , 1 . 34 ) 0 . 95 ( 0 . 88 , 1 . 03 ) NA Simeprevir 150 once daily 30 once daily ND 22 ledipasvir 1 . 81 ( 1 . 69 , 2 . 94 ) 1 . 92 ( 1 . 77 , 2 . 07 ) NA Tacrolimus 5 single dose ND 400 single dose 16 sofosbuvir 0 . 97 ( 0 . 65 , 1 . 43 ) 1 . 13 ( 0 . 81 , 1 . 57 ) NA GS - 331007 0 . 97 ( 0 . 83 , 1 . 14 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 87 , 1 . 13 ) NA [ 1 ] All interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteers .
[ 2 ] Data generated from simultaneous dosing with HARVONI .
Staggered administration ( 12 hours apart ) of atazanavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF or darunavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF and HARVONI provided similar results .
[ 3 ] The effects of atazanavir / ritonavir on ledipasvir and sofosbuvir are similar with or without the presence of emtricitabine / tenofovir DF .
[ 4 ] Administered as ATRIPLA ® ( efavirenz , emtricitabine , tenofovir DF ) .
[ 5 ] This study was conducted in the presence of two other investigational HCV direct - acting agents .
No effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 was observed with raltegravir and the combination of abacavir and lamivudine ; emtricitabine , rilpivirine , and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ; or dolutegravir , emtricitabine , and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate .
Ledipasvir is an inhibitor of drug transporter P - gp and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) and may increase intestinal absorption of coadministered substrates for these transporters .
Ledipasvir is an inhibitor of transporters OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , and BSEP only at concentrations exceeding those achieved in clinic .
Ledipasvir is not an inhibitor of transporters MRP2 , MRP4 , OCT2 , OAT1 , OAT3 , MATE1 , and OCT1 .
The drug - drug interaction potential of ledipasvir is primarily limited to the intestinal inhibition of P - gp and BCRP .
Clinically relevant transporter inhibition by ledipasvir in the systemic circulation is not expected due to its high protein binding .
Sofosbuvir and GS - 331007 are not inhibitors of drug transporters P - gp , BCRP , MRP2 , BSEP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , and OCT1 , and GS - 331007 is not an inhibitor of OAT1 , OCT2 , and MATE1 .
Ledipasvir , sofosbuvir , and GS - 331007 are not inhibitors or inducers of CYP or UGT1A1 enzymes .
The effects of ledipasvir or sofosbuvir on the exposure of coadministered drugs are shown in Table 9 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Table 9 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Coadministered Drug in the Presence of Ledipasvir , Sofosbuvir , or HARVONI [ 1 ] Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) Ledipasvir Dose ( mg ) Sofosbuvir Dose ( mg ) N Mean Ratio ( 90 % CI ) of Coadministered Drug PK With / Without Ledipasvir , Sofosbuvir , or HARVONI No Effect = 1 . 00 Cmax AUC Cmin NA = not available / not applicable , ND = not dosed .
tenofovir DF = tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Atazanavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] atazanavir 300 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 24 1 . 07 ( 0 . 99 , 1 . 14 ) 1 . 27 ( 1 . 18 , 1 . 37 ) 1 . 63 ( 1 . 45 , 1 . 84 ) ritonavir 100 once daily 0 . 86 ( 0 . 79 , 0 . 93 ) 0 . 97 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 05 ) 1 . 45 ( 1 . 27 , 1 . 64 ) tenofovir DF 300 once daily 1 . 47 ( 1 . 37 , 1 . 58 ) 1 . 35 ( 1 . 29 , 1 . 42 ) 1 . 47 ( 1 . 38 , 1 . 57 ) Darunavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF null , null darunavir 800 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 23 1 . 01 ( 0 . 96 , 1 . 06 ) 1 . 04 ( 0 . 99 , 1 . 08 ) 1 . 08 ( 0 . 98 , 1 . 20 ) ritonavir 100 once daily 1 . 17 ( 1 . 01 , 1 . 35 ) 1 . 25 ( 1 . 15 , 1 . 36 ) 1 . 48 ( 1 . 34 , 1 . 63 ) tenofovir DF 300 once daily 1 . 64 ( 1 . 54 , 1 . 74 ) 1 . 50 ( 1 . 42 , 1 . 59 ) 1 . 59 ( 1 . 49 , 1 . 70 ) Elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide elvitegravir 150 once daily 90 once daily 400 once daily 30 0 . 98 ( 0 . 90 , 1 . 07 ) 1 . 11 ( 1 . 02 , 1 . 20 ) 1 . 46 ( 1 . 28 , 1 . 66 ) cobicistat 150 once daily 1 . 23 ( 1 . 15 , 1 . 32 ) 1 . 53 ( 1 . 45 , 1 . 62 ) 3 . 25 ( 2 . 88 , 3 . 67 ) tenofovir alafenamide 10 once daily 0 . 90 ( 0 . 73 , 1 . 11 ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 78 , 0 . 95 ) NA Norelgestromin norgestimate 0 . 180 / 0 . 215 / 0 . 25 / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 025 once daily 90 once daily ND 15 1 . 02 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 16 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 90 , 1 . 18 ) 1 . 09 ( 0 . 91 , 1 . 31 ) ND 400 once daily 1 . 07 ( 0 . 94 , 1 . 22 ) 1 . 06 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 21 ) 1 . 07 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 28 ) Norgestrel 90 once daily ND 1 . 03 ( 0 . 87 , 1 . 23 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 82 , 1 . 20 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 81 , 1 . 23 ) ND 400 once daily 1 . 18 ( 0 . 99 , 1 . 41 ) 1 . 19 ( 0 . 98 , 1 . 45 ) 1 . 23 ( 1 . 00 , 1 . 51 ) Ethinyl estradiol 90 once daily ND 1 . 40 ( 1 . 18 , 1 . 66 ) 1 . 20 ( 1 . 04 , 1 . 39 ) 0 . 98 ( 0 . 79 , 1 . 22 ) ND 400 once daily 1 . 15 ( 0 . 97 , 1 . 36 ) 1 . 09 ( 0 . 94 , 1 . 26 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 80 , 1 . 23 ) Midazolam 2 . 5 single dose 90 single dose ND 30 1 . 07 ( 1 . 00 , 1 . 14 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 95 , 1 . 04 ) NA 0 . 95 ( 0 . 87 , 1 . 04 ) 0 . 89 ( 0 . 84 , 0 . 95 ) NA Raltegravir 400 twice daily 90 once daily ND 28 0 . 82 ( 0 . 66 , 1 . 02 ) 0 . 85 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 02 ) 1 . 15 ( 0 . 90 , 1 . 46 ) ND 400 single dose 19 0 . 57 ( 0 . 44 , 0 . 75 ) 0 . 73 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 91 ) 0 . 95 ( 0 . 81 , 1 . 12 ) Simeprevir 150 once daily 30 once daily ND 22 2 . 61 ( 2 . 39 , 2 . 86 ) 2 . 69 ( 2 . 44 , 2 . 96 ) NA Tacrolimus 5 single dose ND 400 single dose 16 0 . 73 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 90 ) 1 . 09 ( 0 . 84 , 1 . 40 ) NA Tenofovir DF 300 once daily [ 5 ] 90 once daily 400 once daily 15 1 . 79 ( 1 . 56 , 2 . 04 ) 1 . 98 ( 1 . 77 , 2 . 23 ) 2 . 63 ( 2 . 32 , 2 . 97 ) [ 1 ] All interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteers .
[ 2 ] Data generated from simultaneous dosing with HARVONI .
Staggered administration ( 12 hours apart ) of atazanavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF or darunavir / ritonavir + emtricitabine / tenofovir DF and HARVONI provided similar results .
[ 3 ] The effects of HARVONI on atazanavir and ritonavir are similar with or without the presence of emtricitabine / tenofovir DF .
[ 4 ] This magnitude of change in tenofovir exposure does not reflect the approximately 60 – 80 % increase caused by the effects of an HIV PI / ritonavir and the effect of food .
Therefore , tenofovir exposure is approximately 130 % higher when administered as tenofovir DF + atazanavir / ritonavir + HARVONI or tenofovir DF + darunavir / ritonavir + HARVONI and with food as compared to the tenofovir exposure observed following fasted administration of tenofovir DF - based regimens that do not contain an HIV PI / ritonavir and HARVONI .
[ 5 ] Administered as ATRIPLA ( efavirenz , emtricitabine , tenofovir DF ) .
The effects of HARVONI on tenofovir exposures are similar when tenofovir is administered as ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , or TRUVADA + dolutegravir .
No effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of the following coadministered drugs was observed with ledipasvir or sofosbuvir : abacavir , cyclosporine , darunavir / ritonavir , dolutegravir , efavirenz , emtricitabine , lamivudine , methadone , or rilpivirine .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Ledipasvir is an inhibitor of the HCV NS5A protein , which is required for viral replication .
Resistance selection in cell culture and cross - resistance studies indicate ledipasvir targets NS5A as its mode of action .
Sofosbuvir is an inhibitor of the HCV NS5B RNA - dependent RNA polymerase , which is required for viral replication .
Sofosbuvir is a nucleotide prodrug that undergoes intracellular metabolism to form the pharmacologically active uridine analog triphosphate ( GS - 461203 ) , which can be incorporated into HCV RNA by the NS5B polymerase and acts as a chain terminator .
In a biochemical assay , GS - 461203 inhibited the polymerase activity of the recombinant NS5B from HCV genotypes 1 b and 4 a with IC50 values of 3 . 3 and 2 . 7 microM , respectively .
GS - 461203 is neither an inhibitor of human DNA and RNA polymerases nor an inhibitor of mitochondrial RNA polymerase .
Antiviral Activity In HCV replicon assays , the EC50 values of ledipasvir against full - length replicons from genotypes 1 a and 1 b were 0 . 031 nM and 0 . 004 nM , respectively .
The median EC50 values of ledipasvir against chimeric replicons encoding NS5A sequences from clinical isolates from treatment - naïve HCV - infected subjects were 0 .
02 nM for genotype 1 a ( range 0 . 007 – 1 . 0 nM ; N = 23 ) and 0 . 006 nM for genotype 1 b ( range 0 . 002 – 1 . 0 nM ; N = 34 ) .
Ledipasvir had median EC50 values ranging between 0 . 002 nM to 0 . 16 nM against 11 genotype 4 subtypes ( 4 a , 4 d , 4 n , 4 r , 4 o , 4 c , 4 f , 4 k , 4 l , 4 m , and 4 t ) .
The median EC50 value for subtype 4 b was 199 . 6 nM ( range 0 . 66 – 1799 nM ; N = 3 ) ; the two 4 b isolates with EC50 values greater than 100 nM had NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms L30S + M31M + P58S + Y93H .
The median EC50 value of ledipasvir was 0 . 03 nM against genotype 5 a isolates ( range 0 . 008 – 0 . 081 nM ; N = 35 ) .
For genotype 6 , the EC50 values for ledipasvir varied by subtype .
Subtypes 6 a and 6 h had median EC50 values of 0 . 55 and 0 . 17 nM , respectively .
For subtypes 6 e , 6 l , 6 n , 6 q , 6 k , and 6 m , the median EC50 values ranged from 60 . 6 nM to 430 . 1 nM .
In HCV replicon assays , the EC50 values of sofosbuvir against full - length replicons from genotypes 1 a , 1 b , and 4 a , and chimeric 1 b replicons encoding NS5B from genotypes 5 a or 6 a ranged from 14 – 110 nM .
The median EC50 value of sofosbuvir against chimeric replicons encoding NS5B sequences from clinical isolates was 62 nM for genotype 1 a ( range 29 – 128 nM ; N = 67 ) and 102 nM for genotype 1 b ( range 45 – 170 nM ; N = 29 ) .
In replication competent virus assays , the EC50 value of sofosbuvir against genotype 1 a was 30 nM .
Evaluation of sofosbuvir in combination with ledipasvir showed no antagonistic effect in reducing HCV RNA levels in replicon cells .
Resistance In Cell Culture HCV replicons with reduced susceptibility to ledipasvir have been selected in cell culture for genotypes 1 a and 1 b .
Reduced susceptibility to ledipasvir was associated with the primary NS5A amino acid substitution Y93H in both genotypes 1 a and 1 b .
Additionally , a Q30E substitution emerged in genotype 1 a replicons .
Site - directed mutagenesis of the Y93H in both genotypes 1 a and 1 b , as well as the Q30E substitution in genotype 1 a , conferred high levels of reduced susceptibility to ledipasvir ( fold change in EC50 greater than 1000 - fold ) .
HCV replicons with reduced susceptibility to sofosbuvir have been selected in cell culture for multiple genotypes including 1 b , 4 a , 5 a , and 6 a .
Reduced susceptibility to sofosbuvir was associated with the NS5B substitution S282T in all replicon genotypes examined .
An M289L substitution developed along with the S282T substitution in genotype 5 and 6 replicons .
Site - directed mutagenesis of the S282T substitution in replicons of 8 genotypes conferred 2 - to 18 - fold reduced susceptibility to sofosbuvir .
In Clinical Trials Genotype 1 In a pooled analysis of subjects who received HARVONI in Phase 3 trials ( ION - 3 , ION - 1 , and ION - 2 ) , 37 subjects ( 29 with genotype 1 a HCV and 8 with genotype 1 b HCV ) qualified for resistance analysis due to virologic failure ( 35 with virologic relapse , 2 with breakthrough on - treatment due to documented non - adherence ) .
Post - baseline NS5A and NS5B deep nucleotide sequence analysis data ( assay sensitivity of 1 % ) were available for 37 / 37 and 36 / 37 subjects ' viruses , respectively .
Of the 29 genotype 1 a virologic failure subjects , 55 % ( 16 / 29 ) of subjects had virus with emergent NS5A resistance - associated substitutions K24R , M28T / V , Q30R / H / K / L , L31M , or Y93H / N at failure .
Five of these 16 subjects ' viruses also had baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated amino acid positions .
The most common substitutions detected at failure were Q30R , Y93H or N , and L31M .
Of the 8 genotype 1 b virologic failure subjects , 88 % ( 7 / 8 ) had virus with emergent NS5A resistance - associated substitutions L31V / M / I or Y93H at failure .
Virus from three of these 7 subjects also had baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions .
The most common substitution detected at failure was Y93H .
At failure , 38 % ( 14 / 37 ) of virologic failure subjects ' viruses had 2 or more NS5A substitutions at resistance - associated positions .
In the SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 trials ( liver transplant recipients or subjects with decompensated liver disease ) , there were 24 virologic failures with genotype 1 infection ( 20 relapsers and 4 subjects who discontinued treatment prior to achieving HCV RNA < LLOQ ) .
Treatment - emergent NS5A resistance - associated substitutions K24R , M28T , Q30R / H / K , L31V , H58D / P , and / or Y93H / C were detected in 14 / 17 ( 82 % ) genotype 1 a virologic failure subjects , and R30Q , L31M , and / or Y93H / N were detected in 6 / 7 ( 86 % ) genotype 1 b virologic failure subjects .
In phenotypic analyses , post - baseline isolates from subjects who harbored NS5A resistance - associated substitutions at failure showed 20 - to > 243 - fold reduced susceptibility to ledipasvir .
Treatment - emergent NS5B substitutions L159 ( n = 1 ) and V321 ( n = 2 ) previously associated with sofosbuvir failure were detected in the Phase 3 trials ( ION - 3 , ION - 1 , and ION - 2 ) .
In addition , treatment - emergent NS5B substitutions at highly conserved positions D61G ( n = 3 ) , A112T ( n = 2 ) , E237G ( n = 2 ) , and S473T ( n = 1 ) were detected at low frequency by next generation sequencing in treatment failure subjects infected with HCV genotype 1 a .
The D61G substitution was previously described in subjects infected with HCV genotype 1 a in a liver pre - transplant trial .
The E237G substitution was detected in 3 subjects infected with HCV GT1a in the SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 trials .
The clinical significance of these substitutions is currently unknown .
The sofosbuvir - associated resistance substitution S282T in NS5B was not detected in any failure isolate from the Phase 3 trials .
NS5B substitutions S282T , L320V / I , and V321I in combination with NS5A substitutions L31M , Y93H , and Q30L were detected in one subject at failure following 8 weeks of treatment with HARVONI in a Phase 2 trial .
Genotype 4 , 5 or 6 Resistance analysis was performed for 6 relapse subjects infected with HCV genotype 4 ( Study 1119 and ION - 4 , N = 3 ) , genotype 5 ( Study 1119 , N = 2 ) or genotype 6 ( ELECTRON - 2 , N = 1 ) and treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks .
All the relapse subjects with NS5A sequencing data ( 5 of 6 ) had pretreatment NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms ( single or combinations at positions 24 , 28 , 30 , 31 , and 58 ) .
NS5A resistance substitutions ( Y93C or L28V ) emerged in two of the genotype 4 relapse subjects post - treatment who also had NS5A polymorphisms pretreatment that were retained post - treatment .
Two of the relapsers with genotype 4 HCV infection had an NS5B V321I substitution pretreatment , which was retained post - treatment .
Three of the relapse subjects ( 1 each for genotype 4 , 5 , and 6 ) had virus with emergent sofosbuvir resistance - associated substitution S282T at relapse ; the genotype 5 relapse subject also had emergent nucleotide inhibitor substitution M289I .
Persistence of Resistance - Associated Substitutions No data are available on the persistence of ledipasvir or sofosbuvir resistance - associated substitutions .
NS5A resistance - associated substitutions for other NS5A inhibitors have been found to persist for > 1 year in some patients .
The long - term clinical impact of the emergence or persistence of virus containing ledipasvir or sofosbuvir resistance - associated substitutions is unknown .
Effect of Baseline HCV Polymorphisms on Treatment Response Adults Genotype 1 Analyses were conducted to explore the association between pre - existing baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions and relapse rates .
In the pooled analysis of the Phase 3 trials , 23 % ( 370 / 1589 ) of subjects ' virus had baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions ( any change from reference at NS5A amino acid positions 24 , 28 , 30 , 31 , 58 , 92 , or 93 ) identified by population or analysis of deep nucleotide sequences with a 15 % frequency threshold .
In treatment - naïve subjects whose virus had baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions in Studies ION - 1 and ION - 3 , relapse rates were 6 % ( 3 / 48 ) after 8 weeks and 1 % ( 1 / 113 ) after 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI .
Relapse rates among subjects without baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions were 5 % ( 8 / 167 ) after 8 weeks and 1 % ( 3 / 306 ) after 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI .
In treatment - experienced subjects in Study ION - 2 whose virus had baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions , relapse rates were 22 % ( 5 / 23 ) after 12 weeks and 0 % ( 0 / 19 ) after 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI .
In another study in treatment - experienced subjects ( SIRIUS ) , 0 / 15 ( 0 % ) subjects with NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions relapsed after 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI + ribavirin compared to 2 / 15 ( 13 % ) subjects treated with 24 weeks of HARVONI .
SVR was achieved in all 24 subjects ( N = 20 with L159F + C316N ; N = 1 with L159F ; and N = 3 with N142T ) who had baseline polymorphisms associated with resistance to sofosbuvir and / or other NS5B nucleoside inhibitors .
The NS5B S282T substitution associated with resistance to sofosbuvir was not detected in the baseline NS5B sequence of any subject in Phase 3 trials by population or deep nucleotide sequence analysis .
In the SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 trials ( liver transplant recipients or subjects with decompensated liver disease ) , after 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI and ribavirin , relapse rates were 7 % ( 5 / 71 ) and 5 % ( 10 / 217 ) in genotype 1 subjects with and without baseline NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions , respectively .
In the Phase 3 trials and SOLAR trials , the specific baseline NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms observed among subjects who relapsed were M28T / V , Q30H / R , L31M , H58D / P , and Y93H / N in genotype 1 a , and L28M , L31M , A92T , and Y93H in genotype 1 b .
Subjects with multiple NS5A polymorphisms at resistance - associated positions appeared to have higher relapse rates .
Genotype 4 , 5 or 6 Phylogenetic analysis of HCV sequences from genotype 4 - infected subjects in Study 1119 ( N = 44 ) and ION - 4 ( N = 8 ) identified 7 HCV genotype 4 subtypes ( 4 a , 4 b , 4 d , 4 f , 4 m , 4 o , and 4 r ) .
Most subjects were infected with subtype 4 a ( N = 32 ; 62 % ) or 4 d ( N = 11 ; 21 % ) ; 1 to 3 subjects were infected with each of the other genotype 4 subtypes .
There were 3 subjects with subtype 4 r , 2 of whom experienced virologic relapse , and both had a combination of 2 pretreatment NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms ( L28M / V + L30R ) .
Phylogenetic analysis of HCV sequences from genotype 5 - infected subjects in Study 1119 showed almost all were subtype 5 a ( N = 39 ) with one subject not having a subtype identified at screening or by analysis .
Phylogenetic analysis of HCV sequences from genotype 6 - infected subjects in ELECTRON - 2 identified 7 HCV genotype 6 subtypes ( 6 a , 6 e , 6 l , 6 m , 6 p , 6 q , and 6 r ) .
Thirty - two percent of the subjects had subtype 6 a and 24 % had subtype 6 e .
One to three subjects were infected with the other subtypes 6 l , 6 m , 6 p , 6 q , or 6 r .
The one subject who did not achieve SVR12 had subtype 6 l .
Although the data are limited , baseline HCV NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms are not expected to impact the likelihood of achieving SVR when HARVONI is used as recommended to treat HCV genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 - infected patients , based on the low virologic failure rate observed in Study 1119 and ELECTRON - 2 .
The specific baseline polymorphisms observed in subjects with virologic failure were L28M / V , L30R , and P58T for genotype 4 ; L31M for genotype 5 ; and Q24K , F28V , R30A , and T58P for genotype 6 .
Relapse occurred in 2 of 3 genotype 4 subjects who had baseline NS5B V321I , a polymorphism at a position associated with treatment failure to sofosbuvir and other nucleoside inhibitors ; these two subjects also had baseline NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms .
For genotype 5 and 6 , SVR12 was achieved in subjects who had baseline NS5B polymorphisms at positions associated with resistance to sofosbuvir and other nucleoside inhibitors ( N = 1 with N142T in genotype 5 ; N = 1 with M289I in genotype 5 ; N = 15 with M289L / I in genotype 6 ) .
The sofosbuvir resistance - associated substitution S282T was not detected in the baseline NS5B sequence of any subject with genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV in clinical trials by population or deep nucleotide sequence analysis .
Pediatrics In Study 1116 , the presence of NS5A and NS5B resistance - associated polymorphisms did not impact treatment outcome ; all pediatric subjects 3 years of age and older with baseline NS5A or NS5B nucleoside inhibitor resistance - associated polymorphisms ( 14 % ; 32 / 223 ) achieved SVR following 12 weeks treatment with HARVONI .
Cross Resistance Based on resistance patterns observed in cell culture replicon studies and HCV - infected subjects , cross - resistance between ledipasvir and other NS5A inhibitors is expected .
Both sofosbuvir and ledipasvir were fully active against substitutions associated with resistance to other classes of direct - acting antivirals with different mechanisms of action , such as NS5B non - nucleoside inhibitors and NS3 protease inhibitors .
The efficacy of ledipasvir / sofosbuvir has not been established in patients who have previously failed treatment with other regimens that include an NS5A inhibitor .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis Ledipasvir : Ledipasvir was not genotoxic in a battery of in vitro or in vivo assays , including bacterial mutagenicity , chromosome aberration using human peripheral blood lymphocytes , and in vivo rat micronucleus assays .
Ledipasvir was not carcinogenic in a 6 - month rasH2 transgenic mouse study ( up to 300 mg / kg / day ) .
Similarly , ledipasvir was not carcinogenic in a 2 - year rat study ( up to 100 mg / kg / day in males and 30 mg / kg / day in females ) , resulting in exposures approximately 10 and 4 times , respectively , higher than the exposure in humans at the recommended human dose ( RHD ) .
Sofosbuvir : Sofosbuvir was not genotoxic in a battery of in vitro or in vivo assays , including bacterial mutagenicity , chromosome aberration using human peripheral blood lymphocytes , and in vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
Sofosbuvir was not carcinogenic in a 2 - year mouse study ( up to 200 mg / kg / day in males and 600 mg / kg / day in females ) and in a 2 - year rat study ( up to 750 mg / kg / day ) , resulting in exposures of the predominant circulating metabolite GS - 331007 of approximately 4 and 18 times ( in mice ) and 8 and 10 times ( in rats ) , in males and females respectively , the exposure in humans at the RHD .
Impairment of Fertility Ledipasvir : Ledipasvir had no adverse effects on mating and fertility .
In female rats , the mean number of corpora lutea and implantation sites were reduced slightly at maternal exposures approximately 3 times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
At the highest dose levels without effects , exposures of ledipasvir were approximately 5 and 2 times , in males and females , respectively , the exposure in humans at the RHD .
Sofosbuvir : Sofosbuvir had no effects on embryo - fetal viability or on fertility when evaluated in rats .
At the highest dose tested , exposure to the predominant circulating metabolite GS - 331007 was approximately 5 times the exposure in humans at the RHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Description of Clinical Trials The efficacy and safety of HARVONI were evaluated in four trials in genotype 1 HCV mono - infected subjects including one trial exclusively in treatment - experienced subjects with compensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh A ) ; one trial in genotype 1 or 4 HCV / HIV - 1 coinfected subjects ; two trials in genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV mono - infected subjects ; two trials in genotype 1 or 4 HCV infected pretransplant subjects with decompensated cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh B and C ) or post - transplant with Metavir F0 – F3 fibrosis , compensated cirrhosis , decompensated cirrhosis , or fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis ( FCH ) ; two trials in subjects with severe renal impairment ( one of which included subjects requiring dialysis ) ; and one trial in genotype 1 or 4 HCV pediatric subjects 3 years of age and older without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis , as summarized in Table 10 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 , 14 . 3 , 14 . 4 , 14 . 5 , 14 . 6 , and 14 . 7 ) ] : Table 10 Trials Conducted with HARVONI with or without Ribavirin in Subjects with Chronic HCV Genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 InfectionTrial Population Study Arms ( Number of Subjects Treated ) ESRD = End stage renal disease ; RBV = ribavirin ; RI = Renal impairment ; TN = Treatment - naïve subjects .
ION - 3 [ 1 ] ( NCT01851330 ) GT1 , TN without cirrhosis HARVONI 8 weeks ( 215 ) HARVONI + RBV 8 weeks ( 216 ) HARVONI 12 weeks ( 216 ) ION - 1 null ( NCT01701401 ) GT1 , TN with or without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 weeks ( 214 ) HARVONI + RBV 12 weeks ( 217 ) HARVONI 24 weeks ( 217 ) HARVONI + RBV 24 weeks ( 217 ) ION - 2 null ( NCT01768286 ) GT1 , TE [ 2 ] with or without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 weeks ( 109 ) HARVONI + RBV 12 weeks ( 111 ) HARVONI 24 weeks ( 109 ) HARVONI + RBV 24 weeks ( 111 ) SIRIUS [ 3 ] ( NCT01965535 ) GT1 , TE null with cirrhosis HARVONI + RBV 12 Weeks ( 77 ) HARVONI 24 weeks ( 77 ) ION - 4 null ( NCT02073656 ) GT1 and GT4 HCV / HIV - 1 coinfected TN and TE null with or without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 327 for GT1 ; N = 8 for GT4 ) 1119 null ( NCT02081079 ) GT4 and GT5 , TN and TE null with or without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 44 for GT4 ; N = 41 for GT5 ) ELECTRON - 2 null ( NCT01826981 ) GT6 , TN and TE null with or without cirrhosis HARVONI 12 Weeks ( 25 ) SOLAR - 1 null and SOLAR - 2 null ( NCT01938430 and NCT02010255 ) GT1 and GT4 pre - transplant with decompensated cirrhosis or post - transplant with Metavir F0 – F3 fibrosis , compensated cirrhosis , decompensated cirrhosis , or FCH HARVONI + RBV 12 Weeks ( 336 ) HARVONI + RBV 24 weeks ( 334 ) 1116 null ( NCT02249182 ) GT1 or 4 TN and TE with or without cirrhosis in pediatric subjects 3 years of age and older HARVONI 12 Weeks ( 223 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( 1 ) 0154 null ( NCT01958281 ) GT1 TN and TE null with severe RI without dialysis HARVONI 12 weeks ( 18 ) 4063 null ( NCT03036839 ) GT1 , 5 , or 6 TN and TE [ 4 ] with or without compensated cirrhosis , with ESRD requiring dialysis HARVONI 8 Weeks ( 45 ) HARVONI 12 Weeks ( 12 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( 6 ) [ 1 ] Open - label .
[ 2 ] TE = Treatment - experienced subjects including those who have failed a peginterferon alfa + RBV based regimen with or without an HCV protease inhibitor .
[ 3 ] Double - blind , placebo - controlled .
[ 4 ] TE = Treatment experienced subjects including those who have failed either interferon / peginterferon alfa / ribavirin based regimens or HCV - specific direct - acting antiviral regimens that do not include an NS5A polymerase inhibitor .
HARVONI was administered once daily by mouth in these trials .
For subjects without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis who received ribavirin , the ribavirin dosage was 1000 mg per day for subjects weighing less than 75 kg or 1200 mg per day for subjects weighing at least 75 kg .
For subjects with decompensated cirrhosis in SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 studies , the starting ribavirin dosage was 600 mg per day regardless of transplantation status .
Ribavirin dose adjustments were performed according to the ribavirin labeling .
Serum HCV RNA values were measured during the clinical trials using the COBAS TaqMan HCV test ( version 2 . 0 ) , for use with the High Pure System in ION - 3 , ION - 1 , ION - 2 , SIRIUS , and ION - 4 studies or the COBAS AmpliPrep / COBAS Taqman HCV test ( version 2 . 0 ) in ELECTRON - 2 , 1119 , SOLAR - 1 , SOLAR - 2 , and 1116 studies .
The COBAS TaqMan HCV test ( version 2 . 0 ) for use with the High Pure System has a lower limit of quantification ( LLOQ ) of 25 IU per mL and the COBAS AmpliPrep / COBAS Taqman HCV test ( version 2 . 0 ) has a LLOQ of 15 IU per mL .
Sustained virologic response ( SVR12 ) , defined as HCV RNA less than LLOQ at 12 weeks after the cessation of treatment , was the primary endpoint in studies in adults and the key efficacy endpoint in the study in pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older .
Relapse was a secondary endpoint , which was defined as HCV RNA greater than or equal to LLOQ with 2 consecutive values or last available post - treatment measurement during the post - treatment period after achieving HCV RNA less than LLOQ at end of treatment .
14 . 2 Clinical Trials in Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV Treatment - Naïve Adults without Cirrhosis – ION - 3 ( Study 0108 ) ION - 3 was a randomized , open - label trial in treatment - naïve non - cirrhotic subjects with genotype 1 HCV .
Subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to one of the following three treatment groups and stratified by HCV genotype ( 1 a vs 1 b ) : HARVONI for 8 weeks , HARVONI for 12 weeks , or HARVONI + ribavirin for 8 weeks .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across the treatment groups .
Of the 647 treated subjects , the median age was 55 years ( range : 20 to 75 ) ; 58 % of the subjects were male ; 78 % were White ; 19 % were Black ; 6 % were Hispanic or Latino ; mean body mass index was 28 kg / m2 ( range : 18 to 56 kg / m2 ) ; 81 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU per mL ; 80 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 73 % had non - C / C IL28B alleles ( CT or TT ) .
Table 11 presents the SVR12 for the HARVONI treatment groups in the ION - 3 trial after 8 and 12 weeks of HARVONI treatment .
Ribavirin was not shown to increase the SVR12 observed with HARVONI .
Therefore , the HARVONI + ribavirin arm is not presented in Table 11 .
Table 11 Study ION - 3 : SVR12 after 8 and 12 Weeks of Treatment in Treatment - Naïve Non - Cirrhotic Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV HARVONI 8 Weeks ( N = 215 ) HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 216 ) SVR12 94 % ( 202 / 215 ) 96 % ( 208 / 216 ) Outcome for Subjects without SVR On - Treatment Virologic Failure 0 / 215 0 / 216 Relapse [ 1 ] 5 % ( 11 / 215 ) 1 % ( 3 / 216 ) Other [ 2 ] 1 % ( 2 / 215 ) 2 % ( 5 / 216 ) SVR by Genotype [ 3 ] Genotype 1 a 93 % ( 159 / 171 ) 96 % ( 165 / 172 ) Genotype 1 b 98 % ( 42 / 43 ) 98 % ( 43 / 44 ) [ 1 ] The denominator for relapse is the number of subjects with HCV RNA < LLOQ at their last on - treatment assessment .
[ 2 ] Other includes subjects who did not achieve SVR and did not meet virologic failure criteria ( e . g . , lost to follow - up ) .
[ 3 ] One subject without a confirmed subtype for genotype 1 infection was excluded from this subgroup analysis .
The treatment difference between the 8 - week treatment of HARVONI and 12 - week treatment of HARVONI was − 2 . 3 % ( 97 . 5 % confidence interval − 7 . 2 % to 2 . 5 % ) .
Among subjects with a baseline HCV RNA less than 6 million IU per mL , the SVR12 was 97 % ( 119 / 123 ) with 8 - week treatment of HARVONI and 96 % ( 126 / 131 ) with 12 - week treatment of HARVONI .
Relapse rates by baseline viral load are presented in Table 12 .
Table 12 Study ION - 3 : Relapse Rates by Baseline Viral Load after 8 and 12 Weeks of Treatment in Treatment - Naïve Non - Cirrhotic Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV HARVONI 8 Weeks ( N = 215 ) HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 216 ) Number of Responders at End of Treatment 215 216 Baseline HCV RNA [ 1 ] HCV RNA < 6 million IU / mL 2 % ( 2 / 123 ) 2 % ( 2 / 131 ) HCV RNA ≥ 6 million IU / mL 10 % ( 9 / 92 ) 1 % ( 1 / 85 ) [ 1 ] HCV RNA values were determined using the Roche TaqMan Assay ; a subject ' s HCV RNA may vary from visit to visit .
Treatment - Naïve Adults with or without Cirrhosis – ION - 1 ( Study 0102 ) ION - 1 was a randomized , open - label trial that evaluated 12 and 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI with or without ribavirin in 865 treatment - naïve subjects with genotype 1 HCV including those with cirrhosis .
Subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to receive HARVONI for 12 weeks , HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks , HARVONI for 24 weeks , or HARVONI + ribavirin for 24 weeks .
Randomization was stratified by the presence or absence of cirrhosis and HCV genotype ( 1 a vs 1 b ) .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across the treatment groups .
Of the 865 treated subjects , the median age was 54 years ( range : 18 to 80 ) ; 59 % of the subjects were male ; 85 % were White ; 12 % were Black ; 12 % were Hispanic or Latino ; mean body mass index was 27 kg / m2 ( range : 18 to 48 kg / m2 ) ; 79 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU per mL ; 67 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 70 % had non - C / C IL28B alleles ( CT or TT ) ; and 16 % had cirrhosis .
Table 13 presents the SVR12 for the treatment group of HARVONI for 12 weeks in the ION - 1 trial .
Ribavirin was not shown to increase SVR12 observed with HARVONI .
Therefore , the HARVONI + ribavirin arm is not presented in Table 13 .
Table 13 Study ION - 1 : SVR12 after 12 Weeks of Treatment in Treatment - Naïve Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV with and without Cirrhosis HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 214 ) SVR12 [ 1 ] 99 % ( 210 / 213 ) Outcome for Subjects without SVR On - Treatment Virologic Failure null 0 / 213 Relapse null , [ 2 ] < 1 % ( 1 / 212 ) Other null , [ 3 ] 1 % ( 2 / 213 ) [ 1 ] Excluding one subject with genotype 4 infection .
[ 2 ] The denominator for relapse is the number of subjects with HCV RNA < LLOQ at their last on - treatment assessment .
[ 3 ] Other includes subjects who did not achieve SVR12 and did not meet virologic failure criteria ( e . g . , lost to follow - up ) .
SVR12 for selected subgroups are presented in Table 14 .
Table 14 Study ION - 1 : SVR12 for Selected Subgroups after 12 Weeks of Treatment in Treatment - Naïve Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV with and without Cirrhosis HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 214 ) Genotype [ 1 ] Genotype 1 a 98 % ( 142 / 145 ) Genotype 1 b 100 % ( 67 / 67 ) Cirrhosis [ 2 ] No 99 % ( 176 / 177 ) Yes 94 % ( 32 / 34 ) [ 1 ] One subject without a confirmed subtype for genotype 1 infection and one subject with genotype 4 infection were excluded from this subgroup analysis .
[ 2 ] Subjects with missing cirrhosis status were excluded from this subgroup analysis .
Previously - Treated Adults with or without Cirrhosis – ION - 2 ( Study 0109 ) ION - 2 was a randomized , open - label trial that evaluated 12 and 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI with or without ribavirin in genotype 1 HCV - infected subjects with or without cirrhosis who failed prior therapy with an interferon - based regimen , including regimens containing an HCV protease inhibitor .
Subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to receive HARVONI for 12 weeks , HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks , HARVONI for 24 weeks , or HARVONI + ribavirin for 24 weeks .
Randomization was stratified by the presence or absence of cirrhosis , HCV genotype ( 1 a vs 1 b ) and response to prior HCV therapy ( relapse / breakthrough vs nonresponse ) .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across the treatment groups .
Of the 440 treated subjects , the median age was 57 years ( range : 24 to 75 ) ; 65 % of the subjects were male ; 81 % were White ; 18 % were Black ; 9 % were Hispanic or Latino ; mean body mass index was 28 kg / m2 ( range : 19 to 50 kg / m2 ) ; 89 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU per mL ; 79 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 88 % had non - C / C IL28B alleles ( CT or TT ) ; and 20 % had cirrhosis .
Forty - seven percent ( 47 % ) of the subjects failed a prior therapy of pegylated interferon and ribavirin .
Among these subjects , 49 % were relapse / breakthrough and 51 % were non - responder .
Fifty - three percent ( 53 % ) of the subjects failed a prior therapy of pegylated interferon and ribavirin with an HCV protease inhibitor .
Among these subjects , 62 % were relapse / breakthrough and 38 % were non - responder .
Table 15 presents the SVR12 for the HARVONI treatment groups in the ION - 2 trial .
Ribavirin was not shown to increase SVR12 observed with HARVONI .
Therefore , the HARVONI + ribavirin arms are not presented in Table 15 .
Table 15 Study ION - 2 : SVR12 after 12 and 24 Weeks of Treatment in Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV with or without Cirrhosis Who Failed Prior Therapy HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 109 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( N = 109 ) SVR12 94 % ( 102 / 109 ) 99 % ( 108 / 109 ) Outcome for Subjects without SVR On - Treatment Virologic Failure 0 / 109 0 / 109 Relapse [ 1 ] 6 % ( 7 / 108 ) 0 / 109 Other [ 2 ] 0 / 109 1 % ( 1 / 109 ) [ 1 ] The denominator for relapse is the number of subjects with HCV RNA < LLOQ at their last on - treatment assessment .
[ 2 ] Other includes subjects who did not achieve SVR12 and did not meet virologic failure criteria ( e . g . , lost to follow - up ) .
Among the subjects with available SVR12 and SVR24 data ( 206 / 218 ) , all subjects who achieved SVR12 in the ION - 2 study also achieved SVR24 .
SVR12 and relapse rates for selected subgroups are presented in Tables 16 and 17 .
Table 16 Study ION - 2 : SVR12 for Selected Subgroups after 12 and 24 Weeks of Treatment in Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV Who Failed Prior Therapy HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 109 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( N = 109 ) RBV = ribavirin .
Genotype Genotype 1 a 95 % ( 82 / 86 ) 99 % ( 84 / 85 ) Genotype 1 b 87 % ( 20 / 23 ) 100 % ( 24 / 24 ) Cirrhosis [ 1 ] No 95 % ( 83 / 87 ) 99 % ( 85 / 86 ) Yes 86 % ( 19 / 22 ) 100 % ( 22 / 22 ) Prior HCV Therapy Peg - IFN + RBV 93 % ( 40 / 43 ) 100 % ( 58 / 58 ) HCV protease inhibitor + Peg - IFN + RBV 94 % ( 62 / 66 ) 98 % ( 49 / 50 ) Response to Prior HCV Therapy Relapse / Breakthrough 95 % ( 57 / 60 ) 100 % ( 60 / 60 ) Non - responder 92 % ( 45 / 49 ) 98 % ( 48 / 49 ) [ 1 ] Subjects with missing cirrhosis status were excluded from this subgroup analysis .
Table 17 Study ION - 2 : Relapse Rates for Selected Subgroups after 12 and 24 Weeks of Treatment in Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV Who Failed Prior Therapy HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 109 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( N = 109 ) Number of Responders at End of Treatment 108 109 Cirrhosis [ 1 ] No 5 % ( 4 / 86 ) [ 2 ] 0 % ( 0 / 86 ) Yes 14 % ( 3 / 22 ) 0 % ( 0 / 22 ) Presence of Baseline NS5A Resistance - Associated Polymorphisms [ 3 ] No 2 % ( 2 / 85 ) 0 % ( 0 / 90 ) Yes 22 % ( 5 / 23 ) 0 % ( 0 / 19 ) IL28B Status C / C 0 % ( 0 / 10 ) 0 % ( 0 / 16 ) Non - C / C 7 % ( 7 / 98 ) 0 % ( 0 / 93 ) [ 1 ] Subjects with missing cirrhosis status were excluded from this subgroup analysis .
[ 2 ] These 4 non - cirrhotic relapsers all had baseline NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms .
[ 3 ] NS5A resistance - associated polymorphisms include any change at NS5A positions 24 , 28 , 30 , 31 , 58 , 92 , or 93 .
Previously - Treated Adults with Cirrhosis – SIRIUS ( Study 0121 ) SIRIUS was a randomized , double - blind and placebo - controlled trial that evaluated the efficacy of HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks or HARVONI without ribavirin for 24 weeks in genotype 1 HCV - infected subjects with compensated cirrhosis who failed prior therapy with a Peg - IFN + ribavirin regimen followed by a subsequent Peg - IFN + ribavirin + an HCV protease inhibitor regimen .
Subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive placebo for 12 weeks followed by HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks or HARVONI for 24 weeks .
Randomization was stratified by HCV genotype ( 1 a vs 1 b ) and response to prior HCV therapy ( never achieved HCV RNA less than LLOQ vs achieved HCV RNA less than LLOQ ) .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across the treatment groups .
Of the 155 randomized subjects , the median age was 56 years ( range : 23 to 77 ) ; 74 % of the subjects were male ; 97 % were White ; mean body mass index was 27 kg / m2 ( range : 19 to 47 kg / m2 ) ; 63 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 94 % had non - C / C IL28B alleles ( CT or TT ) .
One subject discontinued therapy while on placebo , and was not included in the efficacy analysis .
The SVR12 was 96 % ( 74 / 77 ) and 97 % ( 75 / 77 ) in subjects treated with HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks and HARVONI for 24 weeks without ribavirin , respectively .
All 5 subjects who did not achieve SVR12 relapsed .
14 . 3 Clinical Trials in Subjects with Genotype 4 , 5 , or 6 HCV Below are trial descriptions , SVR12 , and relapse data in the genotype 4 , 5 , and 6 HCV populations .
Trial results in the genotype 4 , 5 , and 6 HCV populations are based upon limited number of subjects in some subgroups , particularly in subjects who have been previously treated and subjects with cirrhosis .
Genotype 4 In two open - label studies ( Study 1119 and ION - 4 ) , HARVONI was administered for 12 weeks to treatment - naïve and previously - treated adult subjects with genotype 4 HCV infection .
Study 1119 enrolled 44 treatment - naïve or previously - treated subjects with genotype 4 HCV , with or without cirrhosis .
ION - 4 enrolled 4 treatment - naïve and 4 previously - treated subjects with genotype 4 HCV infection who were coinfected with HIV - 1 , none of whom had cirrhosis .
In Study 1119 , the overall SVR12 rate was 93 % ( 41 / 44 ) .
SVR12 was similar based upon prior HCV treatment history and cirrhosis status .
In ION - 4 , all 8 subjects achieved SVR12 .
Genotype 5 In the open - label 1119 trial , HARVONI was administered for 12 weeks to 41 treatment - naïve or previously treated adult subjects with genotype 5 HCV infection , with or without cirrhosis .
The overall SVR12 was 93 % ( 38 / 41 ) .
SVR12 was similar based upon prior HCV treatment history and cirrhosis status .
Genotype 6 In the open - label ELECTRON - 2 trial , HARVONI was administered for 12 weeks to 25 treatment - naïve or previously treated adult subjects with genotype 6 HCV infection , with or without cirrhosis .
The overall SVR12 was 96 % ( 24 / 25 ) .
SVR12 was similar based upon prior HCV treatment history and cirrhosis status .
The single subject who relapsed discontinued study treatment early ( at approximately Week 8 ) .
14 . 4 Clinical Trials in Subjects Coinfected with HCV and HIV - 1 ION - 4 was an open - label clinical trial that evaluated the safety and efficacy of 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI without ribavirin in HCV treatment - naïve and previously treated adult subjects with genotype 1 or 4 HCV infection who were coinfected with HIV - 1 .
Treatment - experienced subjects had failed prior treatment with Peg - IFN + ribavirin , Peg - IFN + ribavirin + an HCV protease inhibitor , or sofosbuvir + ribavirin .
Subjects were on a stable HIV - 1 antiretroviral therapy that included emtricitabine + tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , administered with efavirenz , rilpivirine , or raltegravir .
Of the 335 treated subjects , the median age was 52 years ( range : 26 to 72 ) ; 82 % of the subjects were male ; 61 % were White ; 34 % were Black ; mean body mass index was 27 kg / m2 ( range : 18 to 66 kg / m2 ) ; 75 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 2 % had genotype 4 infection ; 76 % had non - C / C IL28B alleles ( CT or TT ) ; and 20 % had compensated cirrhosis .
Fifty - five percent ( 55 % ) of the subjects were treatment - experienced .
Table 18 presents the SVR12 in the ION - 4 trial after 12 weeks of HARVONI treatment .
Table 18 Study ION - 4 : SVR12 in Subjects with Genotype 1 or 4 HCV Coinfected with HIV - 1 HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 335 ) SVR12 96 % ( 321 / 335 ) Outcome for Subjects without SVR On - Treatment Virologic Failure < 1 % ( 2 / 335 ) Relapse [ 1 ] 3 % ( 10 / 333 ) Other [ 2 ] < 1 % ( 2 / 335 ) [ 1 ] The denominator for relapse is the number of subjects with HCV RNA < LLOQ at their last on - treatment assessment .
[ 2 ] Other includes subjects who did not achieve SVR12 and did not meet virologic failure criteria ( e . g . , lost to follow - up ) .
SVR12 rates were 94 % ( 63 / 67 ) in subjects with cirrhosis and 98 % ( 46 / 47 ) in subjects who were previously treated and had cirrhosis .
The relapse rate in the ION - 4 trial in Black subjects was 9 % ( 10 / 115 ) , all of whom were IL28B non - CC genotype , and none in non - Black subjects ( 0 / 220 ) .
In the ION - 1 , ION - 2 , and ION - 3 HCV mono - infection studies , relapse rates were 3 % ( 10 / 305 ) in Black subjects and 2 % ( 26 / 1637 ) in non - Black subjects .
No subject had HIV - 1 rebound during the study .
The percentage of CD4 + cells did not change during treatment .
Median CD4 + cell count increase of 29 cells / mm3 was observed at the end of treatment with HARVONI for 12 weeks .
14 . 5 Clinical Trials in Liver Transplant Recipients and / or Subjects with Decompensated Cirrhosis SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 were two open - label trials that evaluated 12 and 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI in combination with ribavirin in HCV treatment - naïve and previously treated adult subjects with genotype 1 and 4 infection who had undergone liver transplantation and / or who had decompensated liver disease .
The two trials were identical in study design .
Subjects were enrolled in one of the seven groups in the trials based on liver transplantation status and severity of hepatic impairment ( see Table 19 ) .
Subjects with a CPT score greater than 12 were excluded .
Within each group , subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks or HARVONI + ribavirin for 24 weeks .
For subjects with decompensated cirrhosis in SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 studies , the starting ribavirin dosage was 600 mg per day regardless of transplantation status .
Ribavirin dose adjustments were performed according to the ribavirin labeling [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across the treatment groups .
Of the 670 treated subjects , the median age was 59 years ( range : 21 to 81 ) ; 77 % of the subjects were male ; 91 % were White ; mean body mass index was 28 kg / m2 ( range : 18 to 49 kg / m2 ) ; 94 % and 6 % had genotype 1 and 4 HCV infection , respectively ; 78 % of the subjects failed a prior HCV therapy .
Table 19 presents the pooled SVR12 rates for SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 in subjects with genotype 1 HCV treated with HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks .
The SVR12 rates observed with 24 weeks of HARVONI + ribavirin were similar to the SVR12 rates observed with 12 weeks of treatment .
Therefore , the results for the HARVONI + ribavirin 24 weeks arm are not presented in Table 19 .
Table 19 Studies SOLAR - 1 and SOLAR - 2 : SVR12 and Relapse Rates After 12 Weeks of Treatment with HARVONI and Ribavirin in Subjects with Genotype 1 HCV Who Were Post Liver Transplant and / or Who Had Decompensated Liver Disease HARVONI + RBV 12 weeks ( N = 307 ) SVR12 ( N = 300 ) [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] Relapse ( N = 288 ) null , null , [ 3 ] Pre - transplant CPT B 87 % ( 45 / 52 ) 12 % ( 6 / 51 ) CPT C 88 % ( 35 / 40 ) 5 % ( 2 / 37 ) Post - transplant Metavir score F0 – F3 95 % ( 94 / 99 ) 3 % ( 3 / 97 ) CPT A 98 % ( 55 / 56 ) 0 % ( 0 / 55 ) CPT B 89 % ( 41 / 46 ) 2 % ( 1 / 42 ) CPT C 57 % ( 4 / 7 ) 33 % ( 2 / 6 ) [ 1 ] Five subjects transplanted prior to post - treatment Week 12 with HCV RNA < LLOQ at last measurement prior to transplant were excluded .
[ 2 ] Two subjects were excluded due to failure to meet the inclusion criteria for any of the treatment groups ( i . e . , did not have decompensated cirrhosis and had also not received a liver transplant ) .
[ 3 ] Twelve subjects were excluded from relapse analysis because they died ( N = 11 ) or withdrew consent ( N = 1 ) prior to reaching the 12 - week post - treatment follow - up visit .
There were 7 subjects with fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis in the 12 - week treatment arm , and all subjects achieved SVR12 .
In genotype 4 HCV post - transplant subjects without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis treated with HARVONI + ribavirin for 12 weeks ( N = 12 ) , the SVR12 rate was similar to rates reported with genotype 1 ; no subjects relapsed .
Available data in subjects with genotype 4 HCV who had decompensated cirrhosis ( pre - and post - liver transplantation ) were insufficient for dosing recommendations ; therefore , these results are not presented .
14 . 6 Clinical Trials in Adults with Severe Renal Impairment , Including those Requiring Dialysis Trial 0154 was an open - label clinical trial that evaluated 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI in 18 treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced ( subjects with prior exposure to an HCV NS5B polymerase inhibitor were excluded ) genotype 1 HCV - infected adults with severe renal impairment not requiring dialysis .
At baseline , two subjects ( 11 % ) had cirrhosis and the mean eGFR was 24 . 9 mL / min ( range : 9 . 0 to 39 . 6 ) .
The SVR rate was 100 % ( 18 / 18 ) .
As shown in the table below , Trial 4063 was an open - label three - arm clinical trial that evaluated 8 , 12 , and 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI in a total of 63 adults with chronic HCV infection and ESRD requiring dialysis .
Of the 63 subjects , 10 % had cirrhosis , 24 % were treatment - experienced , 95 % were on hemodialysis , and 5 % were on peritoneal dialysis ; mean duration on dialysis was 12 years ( range : 0 . 2 to 43 years ) .
The SVR rates for the 8 , 12 , and 24 week HARVONI treatment groups are shown in Table 20 .
Table 20 Trial 4063 : SVR12 after 8 , 12 , and 24 Weeks of Treatment in Adults with HCV with or without Cirrhosis and with Severe Renal Impairment Requiring Dialysis HARVONI 8 Weeks ( N = 45 ) HARVONI 12 Weeks ( N = 12 ) HARVONI 24 Weeks ( N = 6 ) Population Treatment - naïve , GT 1 HCV Non - cirrhotic Treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced [ 1 ] GT 1 , 5 , 6 [ 2 ] HCV Non - cirrhotic Treatment - experienced , GT 1 HCV with compensated cirrhosis SVR12 93 % ( 42 / 45 ) 100 % ( 12 / 12 ) 83 % ( 5 / 6 ) Outcome for Subjects without SVR On - Treatment Virologic Failure 0 / 45 0 / 12 0 / 6 Relapse 0 / 44 0 / 12 0 / 6 Other [ 3 ] 7 % ( 3 / 45 ) 0 / 12 17 % ( 1 / 6 ) [ 1 ] Subjects with prior exposure to any HCV NS5A inhibitor were excluded .
[ 2 ] One subject had an indeterminant HCV GT .
[ 3 ] " Other " outcomes includes subjects who did not achieve SVR and did not meet virologic failure criteria .
All subjects who failed without virologic relapse or on - treatment virologic failure died prior to follow - up Week 12 .
None of these deaths were assessed as treatment - related .
14 . 7 Clinical Trial in Pediatric Subjects The efficacy of HARVONI was evaluated in an open - label trial ( Study 1116 ) in 224 HCV treatment - naïve ( N = 186 ) and treatment - experienced ( N = 38 ) pediatric subjects 3 years of age or older .
This study evaluated 12 weeks of treatment with HARVONI once daily in genotype 1 ( N = 183 ) or genotype 4 ( N = 3 ) treatment - naive subjects without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis ; genotype 1 treatment - experienced subjects without cirrhosis ( N = 37 ) ; and evaluated 24 weeks of treatment with HARVONI once daily in one genotype 1 subject who was both treatment - experienced and cirrhotic .
Subjects 12 Years to < 18 Years of Age : HARVONI was evaluated in 100 subjects 12 years to < 18 years of age with HCV genotype 1 infection .
Demographics and baseline characteristics were balanced across treatment - naïve and treatment - experienced subjects ( patients had failed an interferon based regimen with or without ribavirin ) .
The median age was 15 years ( range : 12 to 17 ) ; 63 % of the subjects were female ; 91 % were White , 7 % were Black , and 2 % were Asian ; 13 % were Hispanic / Latino ; mean body mass index was 23 kg / m2 ( range : 13 . 1 to 36 . 6 kg / m2 ) ; mean weight was 61 kg ( range 33 to 126 kg ) ; 55 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU / mL ; 81 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection .
One subject ( treatment - naïve ) had known compensated cirrhosis .
The majority of subjects ( 84 % ) had been infected through vertical transmission .
The SVR12 rate was 98 % overall ( 98 % [ 78 / 80 ] in treatment - naïve subjects and 100 % [ 20 / 20 ] in treatment - experienced subjects ) .
No subject experienced on - treatment virologic failure or relapse .
Two subjects were lost to follow - up .
Subjects 6 Years to < 12 Years of Age : HARVONI was evaluated in 90 subjects 6 years to < 12 years of age with HCV genotype 1 or 4 infection .
Among these subjects , 72 ( 80 % ) were treatment - naïve and 18 ( 20 % ) were treatment - experienced .
Eighty - nine of the subjects ( 87 with genotype 1 HCV infection and 2 with genotype 4 HCV infection ) were treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks , 1 subject with genotype 1 HCV infection was treated with HARVONI for 24 weeks .
The median age was 9 years ( range : 6 to 11 ) ; 59 % of the subjects were male ; 79 % were White , 8 % were Black , and 6 % were Asian ; 10 % were Hispanic / Latino ; mean body mass index was 18 kg / m2 ( range : 13 to 31 kg / m2 ) ; mean weight was 33 kg ( range 18 to 76 kg ) ; 59 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU / mL ; 86 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; 2 subjects ( 1 treatment - naïve , 1 treatment - experienced ) had known compensated cirrhosis .
The majority of subjects ( 97 % ) had been infected through vertical transmission .
The SVR12 rate was 99 % ( 86 / 87 ) in subjects with genotype 1 HCV infection , and 100 % ( 2 / 2 ) in subjects with genotype 4 HCV infection .
The one genotype 1 subject treated with HARVONI for 24 weeks also achieved SVR12 .
The one subject ( genotype 1 ) who did not achieve SVR12 and relapsed had been treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks .
Subjects 3 Years to < 6 Years of Age : HARVONI was evaluated in 34 subjects 3 years to < 6 years of age with HCV genotype 1 ( N = 33 ) or genotype 4 ( N = 1 ) infection .
All of the subjects were treatment - naïve and treated with HARVONI for 12 weeks .
The median age was 5 years ( range : 3 to 5 ) ; 71 % of the subjects were female ; 79 % were White , 3 % were Black , and 6 % were Asian ; 18 % were Hispanic / Latino ; mean body mass index was 17 kg / m2 ( range : 13 to 25 kg / m2 ) ; mean weight was 19 kg ( range 11 to 34 kg ) ; 56 % had baseline HCV RNA levels greater than or equal to 800 , 000 IU / mL ; 82 % had genotype 1 a HCV infection ; no subjects had known cirrhosis .
All subjects ( 100 % ) had been infected through vertical transmission .
The SVR12 rate was 97 % ( 32 / 33 ) in subjects with genotype 1 HCV infection , and the one subject with genotype 4 HCV infection also achieved SVR12 .
One subject prematurely discontinued study treatment due to an adverse event .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tablets HARVONI tablets 90 mg / 400 mg are orange , diamond - shaped , film - coated , debossed with " GSI " on one side and " 7985 " on the other side of the tablet .
Each bottle contains 28 tablets ( NDC 61958 - 1801 - 1 ) , a silica gel desiccant and polyester coil , and is closed with a child - resistant closure .
HARVONI tablets , 45 mg / 200 mg , are white , capsule - shaped , film - coated , debossed with " GSI " on one side and " HRV " on the other side of the tablet .
Each bottle contains 28 tablets ( NDC 61958 - 1803 - 1 ) , a silica gel desiccant and polyester coil , and is closed with a child - resistant closure .
• Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
• Dispense only in original container .
• Do not use if seal over bottle opening is broken or missing .
Oral Pellets HARVONI pellets , 45 mg / 200 mg , are orange pellets supplied as unit - dose packets in cartons .
Each carton contains 28 packets ( NDC 61958 - 1804 - 1 ) .
HARVONI pellets , 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg , are orange pellets supplied as unit - dose packets in cartons .
Each carton contains 28 packets ( NDC 61958 - 1805 - 1 ) .
• Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
• Do not use if carton tamper - evident seal or packet seal is broken or damaged .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Risk of Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation in Patients Coinfected with HCV and HBV Inform patients that HBV reactivation can occur in patients coinfected with HBV during or after treatment of HCV infection .
Advise patients to tell their healthcare provider if they have a history of HBV infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Coadministered with Amiodarone Advise patients to seek medical evaluation immediately for symptoms of bradycardia such as near - fainting or fainting , dizziness or lightheadedness , malaise , weakness , excessive tiredness , shortness of breath , chest pain , confusion , or memory problems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Inform patients that HARVONI may interact with other drugs .
Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider the use of any other prescription or nonprescription medication or herbal products including St . John ' s wort [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to avoid pregnancy during combination treatment with HARVONI and ribavirin and for 6 months after completion of treatment .
Inform patients to notify their healthcare provider immediately in the event of a pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatitis C Virus Transmission Inform patients that the effect of treatment of hepatitis C infection on transmission is not known , and that appropriate precautions to prevent transmission of the hepatitis C virus during treatment or in the event of treatment failure should be taken .
Administration Advise patients to take HARVONI every day at the regularly scheduled time with or without food .
Inform patients that it is important not to miss or skip doses and to take HARVONI for the duration that is recommended by the physician .
For HARVONI oral pellets , advise patients or caregivers to read and follow the Instructions for Use for preparing the correct dose .
Manufactured and distributed by : Gilead Sciences , Inc .
Foster City , CA 94404 HARVONI , ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , TRUVADA and VIREAD are trademarks of Gilead Sciences , Inc . , or its related companies .
All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners .
© 2020 Gilead Sciences , Inc .
All rights reserved .
205834 - GS - 011 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 03 / 2020 Patient Information HARVONI ® ( har - VOE - nee ) ( ledipasvir and sofosbuvir ) tablets HARVONI ® ( har - VOE - nee ) ( ledipasvir and sofosbuvir ) oral pellets Important : If you take HARVONI with ribavirin , you should also read the Medication Guide for ribavirin .
What is the most important information I should know about HARVONI ?
HARVONI can cause serious side effects , including , Hepatitis B virus reactivation : Before starting treatment with HARVONI , your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check for hepatitis B virus infection .
If you have ever had hepatitis B virus infection , the hepatitis B virus could become active again during or after treatment of hepatitis C virus with HARVONI .
Hepatitis B virus becoming active again ( called reactivation ) may cause serious liver problems including liver failure and death .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you if you are at risk for hepatitis B virus reactivation during treatment and after you stop taking HARVONI .
For more information about side effects , see the section " What are the possible side effects of HARVONI ? "
What is HARVONI ?
HARVONI is a prescription medicine used to treat adults and children 3 years of age and older with chronic ( lasting a long time ) hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) : • genotype 1 , 4 , 5 , or 6 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis • genotype 1 infection with advanced cirrhosis ( decompensated ) in combination with ribavirin • genotype 1 or 4 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis who have had a liver transplant , in combination with ribavirin It is not known if HARVONI is safe and effective in children with HCV under 3 years of age .
Before taking HARVONI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have ever had hepatitis B virus infection • have liver problems other than hepatitis C infection • have had a liver transplant • have kidney problems or you are on dialysis • have HIV infection • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if HARVONI will harm your unborn baby .
• Males and females who take HARVONI in combination with ribavirin should also read the ribavirin Medication Guide for important pregnancy , contraception , and infertility information .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if HARVONI passes into your breast milk .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with HARVONI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
HARVONI and other medicines may affect each other .
This can cause you to have too much or not enough HARVONI or other medicines in your body .
This may affect the way HARVONI or your other medicines work , or may cause side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with HARVONI .
Do not start taking a new medicine without telling your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider can tell you if it is safe to take HARVONI with other medicines .
How should I take HARVONI ?
• Take HARVONI exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Do not stop taking HARVONI without first talking with your healthcare provider .
• Take HARVONI tablets or oral pellets by mouth , with or without food .
• It is important that you do not miss or skip doses of HARVONI during treatment .
• For adults the usual dose of HARVONI is one 90 / 400 mg tablet each day .
• For children 3 years of age and older your healthcare provider will prescribe the right dose of HARVONI tablets or oral pellets based on your child ' s body weight .
• Tell your healthcare provider if your child has problems with swallowing tablets .
• If your healthcare provider prescribes HARVONI oral pellets for your child , see " How should I give HARVONI oral pellets to my child . "
• Do not miss a dose of HARVONI .
Missing a dose lowers the amount of medicine in your blood .
Refill your HARVONI prescription before you run out of medicine .
If you take too much HARVONI , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
How should I give HARVONI oral pellets to my child ?
See the detailed Instructions for Use for information about how to give or take a dose of HARVONI oral pellets .
• Administer HARVONI oral pellets exactly as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• Do not open the packet until ready to use .
• Hold the HARVONI pellets packet with the cut line on top .
• Shake the HARVONI pellets packet gently to settle the pellets .
• Tear or cut the HARVONI packet along the cut line .
• HARVONI oral pellets can be taken right in the mouth without chewing , or with food .
• If HARVONI pellets are taken with food , sprinkle the pellets on one or more spoonfuls of non - acidic soft food at or below room temperature .
Examples of non - acidic foods include pudding , chocolate syrup , mashed potato , and ice cream .
Take HARVONI pellets within 30 minutes of gently mixing with food and swallow the entire contents without chewing to avoid a bitter taste .
• Do not store any leftover HARVONI mixture ( oral pellets mixed with food ) for use at a later time .
Throw away any unused portion .
What are the possible side effects of HARVONI ?
HARVONI can cause serious side effects , including : • Hepatitis B virus reactivation .
See " What is the most important information I should know about HARVONI ? "
• Slow heart rate ( bradycardia ) .
HARVONI treatment may result in slowing of the heart rate along with other symptoms when taken with amiodarone ( Cordarone ® , Nexterone ® , Pacerone ® ) , a medicine used to treat certain heart problems .
In some cases bradycardia has led to death or the need for a heart pacemaker when amiodarone is taken with HARVONI .
Get medical help right away if you take amiodarone with HARVONI and get any of the following symptoms : • fainting or near - fainting • dizziness or lightheadedness • not feeling well • weakness • extreme tiredness • shortness of breath • chest pains • confusion • memory problems The most common side effects of HARVONI include : • tiredness • headache • weakness These are not all the possible side effects of HARVONI .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store HARVONI ?
• Store HARVONI tablets or pellets below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Keep HARVONI tablets in the original container .
• Do not use HARVONI tablets if the seal over the bottle opening is broken or missing .
• Do not use HARVONI pellets if the carton tamper - evident seal , or the pellets packet seal , is broken or damaged .
Keep HARVONI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of HARVONI Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use HARVONI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HARVONI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about HARVONI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in HARVONI ?
Active ingredients : ledipasvir and sofosbuvir Inactive ingredients , Tablets 90 / 400 mg : colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablet film - coat contains : FD & C yellow # 6 / sunset yellow FCF aluminum lake , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Inactive ingredients , Tablets 45 / 200 mg : colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablet film - coat contains : polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolyzed , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Inactive ingredients , Oral Pellets : amino - methacrylate copolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , copovidone , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Manufactured and distributed by : Gilead Sciences , Inc . , Foster City , CA 94404 For more information , call 1 - 800 - 445 - 3235 or go to www . HARVONI . com .
HARVONI is a trademark of Gilead Sciences , Inc .
All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners .
© 2020 Gilead Sciences , Inc .
All rights reserved .
205834 - GS - 011 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE HARVONI ® ( har - VOE - nee ) ( ledipasvir and sofosbuvir ) pellets , for oral use Read the Patient Information that comes with HARVONI oral pellets for important information about HARVONI .
This Instructions for Use contains information on how to take HARVONI oral pellets .
Be sure you understand and follow the instructions .
If you have any questions , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Important Information You Need to Know Before Taking HARVONI oral pellets • For oral use only ( take by mouth with or without food ) .
• Do not open the HARVONI oral pellet packet ( s ) until ready to use .
• HARVONI oral pellets are orange pellets supplied as single - use packets in cartons .
Each carton contains 28 packets .
• Do not use HARVONI oral pellets if the carton tamper - evident seal , or the pellets packet seal , is broken or damaged .
Preparing a dose of HARVONI oral pellets to be taken with food : Before you prepare a dose of HARVONI oral pellets to be taken with food , gather the following supplies : • Daily HARVONI oral pellet packet ( s ) , as prescribed by your healthcare provider • One or more spoonfuls of non - acidic soft food such as pudding , chocolate syrup , mashed potato , or ice cream • Bowl • Spoon • Scissors ( optional ) Step 1 : Add one or more spoonfuls of non - acidic soft food to the bowl first .
Step 2 : Hold the HARVONI oral pellets packet with the cut line on top ( see Figure A ) .
Step 3 : Shake the packet gently to settle the pellets to the bottom of the packet ( see Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Figure B Step 4 : Cut the packet along the cut line with scissors ( see Figure C ) , or fold the packet back at the tear line ( see Figure D ) and tear open ( see Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Figure D Figure E Step 5 : Carefully pour the entire contents of the prescribed number of HARVONI oral pellet packet ( s ) onto the food in the bowl and gently mix with a spoon ( see Figure F ) .
Make sure that no HARVONI oral pellets remain in the packet ( s ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 6 : Take the HARVONI oral pellets and food mixture within 30 minutes without chewing to avoid a bitter taste .
Ensure all of the HARVONI oral pellets are taken .
Preparing a dose of HARVONI oral pellets to be taken without food : Before you prepare a dose of HARVONI oral pellets to be taken without food , gather the following supplies : • Daily HARVONI oral pellet packet ( s ) , as prescribed by your healthcare provider • Scissors ( optional ) • Water ( optional ) Step 1 : Hold the HARVONI oral pellets packet with the cut line on top ( see Figure G ) .
Step 2 : Shake the packet gently to settle the pellets to the bottom of the packet ( see Figure H ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Figure H Step 3 : Cut the packet along the cut line with scissors ( see Figure I ) , or fold the packet back at the tear line ( see Figure J ) and tear open ( see Figure K ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I Figure J Figure K Step 4 : Pour the entire contents of the HARVONI oral pellets packet directly in the mouth and swallow without chewing to avoid a bitter taste ( see Figure L ) .
Water may be taken after swallowing the pellets , if needed .
Make sure that no HARVONI oral pellets remain in the packet .
If your healthcare provider prescribed more than one HARVONI oral pellets packet , repeat Steps 1 through 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L Storing HARVONI oral pellets • Store HARVONI pellets below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Keep HARVONI oral pellets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Disposing of HARVONI oral pellets • Throw away any unused portion .
Do not store and reuse any leftover HARVONI mixture ( pellets mixed with food ) .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 445 - 3235 or go to www . HARVONI . com .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Gilead Sciences , Inc . , Foster City , CA 94404 HARVONI is a trademark of Gilead Sciences , Inc . , or its related companies .
© 2020 Gilead Sciences , Inc .
All rights reserved .
205834 - GS - 011 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : March 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 mg / 400 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 61958 - 1801 - 1 28 tablets Harvoni ® ( ledipasvir , sofosbuvir ) tablets , 90 mg / 400 mg Take 1 tablet once daily Note to pharmacist : Do not cover ALERT box with pharmacy label .
ALERT : Find out about medicines that should NOT be taken with Harvoni [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 mg / 200 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 61958 - 1803 - 1 28 tablets Harvoni ® ( ledipasvir , sofosbuvir ) tablets 45 mg / 200 mg Note to pharmacist : Do not cover ALERT box with pharmacy label .
ALERT : Find out about medicines that should NOT be taken with Harvoni [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg Pellet Packet Carton Label NDC 61958 - 1805 - 1 28 packets Harvoni ® ( ledipasvir / sofosbuvir ) oral pellets 33 . 75 mg / 150 mg per packet Rx only Note to pharmacist : Do not cover ALERT box with pharmacy label .
ALERT : Find out about medicines that should NOT be taken with Harvoni GILEAD [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 mg / 200 mg Pellet Packet Carton Label NDC 61958 - 1804 - 1 28 packets Harvoni ® ( ledipasvir / sofosbuvir ) oral pellets 45 mg / 200 mg per packet Rx only Note to pharmacist : Do not cover ALERT box with pharmacy label .
ALERT : Find out about medicines that should NOT be taken with Harvoni GILEAD [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
