Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 12 / 2022 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) 12 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 12 ) 12 / 2022 WARNING : INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA - RELATED PSYCHOSIS and SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric and young adult patients in short - term studies .
Closely monitor all antidepressant - treated patients for clinical worsening , and for the emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of VRAYLAR have not been established in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA - RELATED PSYCHOSIS and SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis .
( 5 . 1 ) • Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric and young adult patients .
Closely monitor all antidepressant - treated patients for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors .
Safety and effectiveness of VRAYLAR have not been established in pediatric patients ( 5 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VRAYLAR ® is indicated for : ● Treatment of schizophrenia in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] ● Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] ● Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( bipolar depression ) in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] ● Adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] VRAYLAR is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for : • Treatment of schizophrenia in adults ( 1 ) • Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults ( 1 ) • Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( bipolar depression ) in adults ( 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) in adults ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer VRAYLAR once daily with or without food ( 2 ) Starting Dose Recommended Dose Schizophrenia ( 2 . 2 ) 1 . 5 mg daily 1 . 5 mg to 6 mg daily Bipolar Mania ( 2 . 3 ) 1 . 5 mg daily 3 mg to 6 mg daily Bipolar Depression ( 2 . 4 ) 1 . 5 mg daily 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg daily Adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for MDD ( 2 . 5 ) 1 . 5 mg daily 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg daily • Schizophrenia and Bipolar Mania : Maximum recommended daily dosage is 6 mg .
Dosages above 6 mg daily do not confer significant benefit , but increase the risk of dose - related adverse reactions ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • Bipolar Depression : Maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 mg ( 2 . 4 ) • Adjunctive therapy for treatment of MDD : Maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 mg ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information VRAYLAR is given orally once daily and can be taken with or without food .
Because of the long half - life of cariprazine and its active metabolites , changes in dose will not be fully reflected in plasma for several weeks .
Prescribers should monitor patients for adverse reactions and treatment response for several weeks after starting VRAYLAR and after each dosage change [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage in Schizophrenia The starting dosage of VRAYLAR is 1 . 5 mg once daily .
The recommended dosage range is 1 . 5 mg to 6 mg once daily .
The dosage can be increased to 3 mg on Day 2 .
Depending upon clinical response and tolerability , further dose adjustments can be made in 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg increments .
The maximum recommended dosage is 6 mg daily .
In short - term controlled trials , dosages above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Manic or MixedEpisodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder The starting dosage of VRAYLAR is 1 . 5 mg once daily and should be increased to 3 mg once daily on Day 2 .
The recommended dosage range is 3 mg to 6 mg once daily .
Depending upon clinical response and tolerability , further dose adjustments can be made in 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg increments .
The maximum recommended dosage is 6 mg daily .
In short - term controlled trials , dosages above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage in Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( Bipolar Depression ) The starting dosage of VRAYLAR is 1 . 5 mg once daily .
Depending upon clinical response and tolerability , the dosage can be increased to 3 mg once daily on Day 15 .
Maximum recommended dosage is 3 mg once daily .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage for Adjunctive Therapy to Antidepressants in the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder The starting dosage of VRAYLAR is 1 . 5 mg once daily .
Depending upon clinical response and tolerability , the dosage can be increased to 3 mg once daily on Day 15 .
In clinical trials , dosage titration at intervals of less than 14 days resulted in a higher incidence of adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Maximum recommended dosage is 3 mg once daily .
2 . 6 Dosage Adjustments for CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Dosage recommendation for patients initiating a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor whileon a stable dose of VRAYLAR : If a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is initiated , reduce the current dosage of VRAYLAR by half .
For patients taking 4 . 5 mg daily , the dosage should be reduced to 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg daily .
For patients taking 1 . 5 mg daily , the dosing regimen should be adjusted to every other day .
When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn , VRAYLAR dosage may need to be increased [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Dosage recommendation for patients initiating VRAYLAR therapy whilealready on a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor : Patients should be administered 1 . 5 mg of VRAYLAR on Day 1 and on Day 3 with no dose administered on Day 2 .
From Day 4 onward , the dose should be administered at 1 . 5 mg daily , then increased to a maximum dose of 3 mg daily .
When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is withdrawn , VRAYLAR dosage may need to be increased [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Dosage recommendation for patients concomitantly taking VRAYLAR with CYP3A4 inducers : Concomitant use of VRAYLAR and a CYP3A4 inducer has not been evaluated and is not recommended because the net effect on active drug and metabolites is unclear [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 7 Treatment Discontinuation Following discontinuation of VRAYLAR , the decline in plasma concentrations of active drug and metabolites may not be immediately reflected in patients ’ clinical symptoms ; the plasma concentration of cariprazine and its active metabolites will decline by 50 % in ~ 1 week [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients from VRAYLAR to other antipsychotics or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VRAYLAR ( cariprazine ) capsules are available in four strengths .
• 1 . 5 mg capsules : White cap and body imprinted with “ FL 1 . 5 ” • 3 mg capsules : Green to blue - green cap and white body imprinted with “ FL 3 ” • 4 . 5 mg capsules : Green to blue - green cap and body imprinted with “ FL 4 . 5 ” • 6 mg capsules : Purple cap and white body imprinted with “ FL 6 ” Capsules : 1 . 5 mg , 3 mg , 4 . 5 mg , and 6 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VRAYLAR is contraindicated in patients with history of a hypersensitivity reaction to cariprazine .
Reactions have ranged from rash , pruritus , urticaria , and reactions suggestive of angioedema ( e . g . , swollen tongue , lip swelling , face edema , pharyngeal edema , and swelling face ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to VRAYLAR ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis : Increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions ( e . g . , stroke , transient ischemic attack ) ( 5 . 3 ) • Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome : Manage with immediate discontinuation and close monitoring ( 5 . 4 ) • Tardive Dyskinesia : Discontinue if appropriate ( 5 . 5 ) • Late - Occurring Adverse Reactions : Because of VRAYLAR ’ s long half - life , monitor for adverse reactions and patient response for several weeks after starting VRAYLAR and with each dosage change ( 5 . 6 ) • Metabolic Changes : Monitor for hyperglycemia / diabetes mellitus , dyslipidemia and weight gain ( 5 . 7 ) • Leukopenia , Neutropenia , and Agranulocytosis : Perform complete blood counts ( CBC ) in patients with pre - existing low white blood cell counts ( WBC ) or history of leukopenia or neutropenia .
Consider discontinuing VRAYLAR if a clinically significant decline in WBC occurs in absence of other causative factors ( 5 . 8 ) • Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope : Monitor heart rate and blood pressure and warn patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease , and risk of dehydration or syncope ( 5 . 9 ) • Seizures : Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold ( 5 . 11 ) • Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment : Use caution when operating machinery ( 5 . 12 ) 5 . 1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis Antipsychotic drugs increase the all - cause risk of death in elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis .
Analyses of 17 dementia - related psychosis placebo - controlled trials ( modal duration of 10 weeks and largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs ) revealed a risk of death in the drug - treated patients of between 1 . 6 to 1 . 7 times that in placebo - treated patients .
Over the course of a typical 10 - week controlled trial , the rate of death in drug - treated patients was about 4 . 5 % , compared to a rate of about 2 . 6 % in placebo - treated patients .
Although the causes of death were varied , most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular ( e . g . , heart failure , sudden death ) or infectious ( e . g . , pneumonia ) in nature .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors in Children , Adolescents and Young Adults In pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and other antidepressant classes ) that included approximately 77 , 000 adult patients and 4 , 500 pediatric patients , the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in antidepressant - treated patients age 24 years and younger was greater than in placebo - treated patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors among drugs , but there was an increased risk identified in young patients for most drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across the different indications , with the highest incidence in patients with MDD .
The drug - placebo differences in the number of cases of suicidal thoughts and behaviors per 1000 patients treated are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Risk Differences of the Number of Patients of Suicidal Thoughts and Behavior in the Pooled Placebo - Controlled Trials of Antidepressants in Pediatric * and Adult PatientsAge Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Patients of Suicidal Thoughts or Behaviors per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 years old 14 additional patients 18 - 24 years old 5 additional patients Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 - 64 years old 1 fewer patient ≥ 65 years old 6 fewer patients * VRAYLAR is not approved for use in pediatric patients .
It is unknown whether the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children , adolescents , and young adults extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond four months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with MDD that antidepressants delay the recurrence of depression and that depression itself is a risk factor for suicidal thoughts and behaviors .
Monitor all antidepressant - treated patients for any indication for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors , especially during the initial few months of drug therapy , and at times of dosage changes .
Counsel family members or caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the healthcare provider .
Consider changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing VRAYLAR , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts or behaviors .
5 . 3 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions , Including Stroke , in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis In placebo - controlled trials in elderly patients with dementia , patients randomized to risperidone , aripiprazole , and olanzapine had a higher incidence of stroke and transient ischemic attack , including fatal stroke .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis [ see Boxed Warning , WarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) , a potentially fatal symptom complex , has been reported in association with administration of antipsychotic drugs .
Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia , muscle rigidity , delirium , and autonomic instability .
Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase , myoglobinuria ( rhabdomyolysis ) , and acute renal failure .
If NMS is suspected , immediately discontinue VRAYLAR and provide intensive symptomatic treatment and monitoring .
5 . 5 Tardive Dyskinesia Tardive dyskinesia , a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible , involuntary , dyskinetic movements , may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs , including VRAYLAR .
The risk appears to be highest among the elderly , especially elderly women , but it is not possible to predict which patients are likely to develop the syndrome .
Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown .
The risk of tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible increase with the duration of treatment and the cumulative dose .
The syndrome can develop after a relatively brief treatment period , even at low doses .
It may also occur after discontinuation of treatment .
Tardive dyskinesia may remit , partially or completely , if antipsychotic treatment is discontinued .
Antipsychotic treatment itself , however , may suppress ( or partially suppress ) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome , possibly masking the underlying process .
The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long - term course of tardive dyskinesia is unknown .
Given these considerations , VRAYLAR should be prescribed in a manner most likely to reduce the risk of tardive dyskinesia .
Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients : 1 ) who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs ; and 2 ) for whom alternative , effective , but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate .
In patients who do require chronic treatment , use the lowest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought .
Periodically reassess the need for continued treatment .
If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on VRAYLAR , drug discontinuation should be considered .
However , some patients may require treatment with VRAYLAR despite the presence of the syndrome .
5 . 6 Late - Occurring Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions may first appear several weeks after the initiation of VRAYLAR treatment , probably because plasma levels of cariprazine and its major metabolites accumulate over time .
As a result , the incidence of adverse reactions in short - term trials may not reflect the rates after longer term exposures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for adverse reactions , including extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) or akathisia , and patient response for several weeks after a patient has begun VRAYLAR and after each dosage increase .
Consider reducing the dose or discontinuing the drug .
5 . 7 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs , including VRAYLAR , have caused metabolic changes , including hyperglycemia , diabetes mellitus , dyslipidemia , and weight gain .
There have been reports of hyperglycemia in patients treated with VRAYLAR .
Although all drugs in the class to date have been shown to produce some metabolic changes , each drug has its own specific risk profile .
Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia , in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death , has been reported in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics .
Assess fasting plasma glucose before or soon after initiation of antipsychotic medication and monitor periodically during long - term treatment .
Schizophrenia In the 6 - week , placebo - controlled trials of adult patients with schizophrenia , the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting glucose from normal ( < 100 mg / dL ) to high ( ≥ 126 mg / dL ) and borderline ( ≥ 100 and < 126 mg / dL ) to high were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
In the long - term , open - label schizophrenia studies , 4 % patients with normal hemoglobin A1c baseline values developed elevated levels ( ≥ 6 . 5 % ) .
Bipolar Disorder In six placebo - controlled trials up to 8 - weeks of adult patients with bipolar disorder ( mania or depression ) , the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting glucose from normal ( < 100 mg / dL ) to high ( ≥ 126 mg / dL ) and borderline ( ≥ 100 and < 126 mg / dL ) to high were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
In the long - term , open - label bipolar disorder studies , 4 % patients with normal hemoglobin A1c baseline values developed elevated levels ( ≥ 6 . 5 % ) .
Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder In two 6 - week placebo - controlled trials of adult patients with major depressive disorder , the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting glucose from normal ( < 100 mg / dL ) to high ( ≥ 126 mg / dL ) was greatest in the VRAYLAR 3 mg per day + antidepressant therapy arm ( 3 . 2 % ) compared with those taking VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg per day + antidepressant therapy ( 2 % ) or those placebo - treated ( 1 . 3 % ) .
The proportion of patients with shifts from normal to borderline ( ≥ 100 and < 126 mg / dL ) or from borderline to high were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
In a long - term , open - label adjunctive treatment of MDD study , 7 % patients with normal hemoglobin A1c baseline values developed elevated levels ( > 6 % ) .
In one 8 - week placebo - controlled trial of adult patients with major depressive disorder , the changes from baseline to end of the trial in fasting glucose were similar among the VRAYLAR and placebo + antidepressant therapy treatment groups .
During the 8 - week trial , serum insulin levels increased by 12 pmol / L in the VRAYLAR 1 mg to 2 mg per day group , 20 pmol / L in the VRAYLAR 2 mg to 4 . 5 mg per day group , and 8 . 5 pmol / L in the placebo group .
Dyslipidemia Atypical antipsychotics cause adverse alterations in lipids .
Before or soon after initiation of antipsychotic medication , obtain a fasting lipid profile at baseline and monitor periodically during treatment .
Schizophrenia In the 6 - week , placebo - controlled trials of adult patients with schizophrenia , the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting total cholesterol , LDL , HDL , and triglycerides were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
Bipolar Disorder In six placebo - controlled trials up to 8 - weeks of adult patients with bipolar disorder ( mania or depression ) , the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting total cholesterol , LDL , HDL , and triglycerides were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
Adjunctive Treatment ofMajor Depressive Disorder In two 6 - week placebo - controlled trials of adult patients with major depressive disorder , the proportion of patients with shifts in total cholesterol , fasting LDL , HDL , and fasting triglycerides were similar in patients treated with VRAYLAR and placebo .
Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with use of atypical antipsychotics , including VRAYLAR .
Monitor weight at baseline and frequently thereafter .
Tables 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 show the change in body weight occurring from baseline to endpoint in 6 - week trials of schizophrenia , 3 - week bipolar mania trials , 6 - week and 8 - week bipolar depression trials , and 6 - week and 8 - week trials of adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder , respectively .
Table 2 .
Change in Body Weight ( kg ) in 6 - Week Schizophrenia Trials VRAYLAR * Placebo ( N = 573 ) 1 . 5 - 3 mg / day ( N = 512 ) 4 . 5 – 6 mg / day ( N = 570 ) 9 - 12 ⸰ mg / day ( N = 203 ) Mean Change at Endpoint + 0 . 3 + 0 . 8 + 1 + 1 Proportion of Patients with Weight Increase ( ≥ 7 % ) 5 % 8 % 8 % 17 % * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
In long - term , uncontrolled trials with VRAYLAR in schizophrenia , the mean changes from baseline in weight at 12 , 24 , and 48 weeks were 1 . 2 kg , 1 . 7 kg , and 2 . 5 kg , respectively .
Table 3 .
Change in Body Weight ( kg ) in 3 - Week Bipolar Mania Trials VRAYLAR * Placebo ( N = 439 ) 3 – 6 mg / day ( N = 259 ) 9 – 12 ⸰ mg / day ( N = 360 ) Mean Change at Endpoint + 0 . 2 + 0 . 5 + 0 . 6 Proportion of Patients with Weight Increase ( ≥ 7 % ) 2 % 1 % 3 % * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Table 4 .
Change in Body Weight ( kg ) in two 6 - Week and one 8 - Week Bipolar Depression Trials VRAYLAR Placebo 1 . 5 mg / day 3 mg / day ( N = 463 ) ( N = 467 ) ( N = 465 ) Mean Change at Endpoint - 0 . 1 + 0 . 7 + 0 . 4 Proportion of Patients with Weight Increase ( ≥ 7 % ) 1 % 3 % 3 % Table 5 .
Change in Body Weight ( kg ) in two 6 - Week and one 8 - Week Adjunctive Treatment for Major Depressive Disorder Trials VRAYLAR 6 - week Trials Placebo + ADT 1 . 5 mg / day + ADT 3 mg / day + ADT ( N = 503 ) ( N = 502 ) ( N = 503 ) Mean Change at Endpoint + 0 . 2 + 0 . 7 + 0 . 7 Proportion of Patients with Weight Increase ( ≥ 7 % ) 1 % 2 % 2 % 8 - week Trial Placebo + ADT ( N = 266 ) 1 to 2 mg / day + ADT ( N = 273 ) 2 to 4 . 5 mg / day + ADT ( N = 273 ) Mean Change at Endpoint 0 + 0 . 9 + 0 . 9 Proportion of Patients with Weight Increase ( ≥ 7 % ) 2 % 2 % 3 % In the long - term , open - label adjunctive treatment of MDD trial , 2 patients ( 0 . 6 % ) discontinued due to weight increase .
VRAYLAR was associated with mean change from baseline in weight of 1 . 7 kg at Week 26 .
In the long - term , open - label adjunctive treatment of MDD trial , 19 % of patients demonstrated a ≥ 7 % increase in body weight , and 5 % demonstrated a ≥ 7 % decrease in body weight .
5 . 8 Leukopenia , Neutropenia , and Agranulocytosis Leukopenia and neutropenia have been reported during treatment with antipsychotic agents , including VRAYLAR .
Agranulocytosis ( including fatal cases ) has been reported with other agents in the class .
Possible risk factors for leukopenia and neutropenia include pre - existing low white blood cell count ( WBC ) or absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) and history of drug - induced leukopenia or neutropenia .
In patients with a pre - existing low WBC or ANC or a history of drug - induced leukopenia or neutropenia , perform a complete blood count ( CBC ) frequently during the first few months of therapy .
In such patients , consider discontinuation of VRAYLAR at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors .
Monitor patients with clinically significant neutropenia for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treat promptly if such symptoms or signs occur .
Discontinue VRAYLAR in patients with absolute neutrophil count < 1000 / mm3 and follow their WBC until recovery .
5 . 9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Atypical antipsychotics cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope .
Generally , the risk is greatest during initial dose titration and when increasing the dose .
Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension was infrequent in trials of VRAYLAR and was not more frequent on VRAYLAR than placebo .
Syncope was not observed .
Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension ( e . g . , elderly patients , patients with dehydration , hypovolemia , and concomitant treatment with antihypertensive medications ) , patients with known cardiovascular disease ( history of myocardial infarction , ischemic heart disease , heart failure , or conduction abnormalities ) , and patients with cerebrovascular disease .
VRAYLAR has not been evaluated in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable cardiovascular disease .
Such patients were excluded from pre - marketing clinical trials .
5 . 10 Falls Antipsychotics , including VRAYLAR , may cause somnolence , postural hypotension , motor and sensory instability , which may lead to falls and , consequently , fractures or other injuries .
For patients with diseases , conditions , or medications that could exacerbate these effects , complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long - term antipsychotic therapy .
5 . 11 Seizures Like other antipsychotic drugs , VRAYLAR may cause seizures .
This risk is greatest in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold .
Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in older patients .
5 . 12 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment VRAYLAR , like other antipsychotics , may cause somnolence and has the potential to impair judgment , thinking , or motor skills .
In 6 - week schizophrenia trials , somnolence ( hypersomnia , sedation , and somnolence ) was reported in 7 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients compared to 6 % of placebo - treated patients .
In 3 - week bipolar mania trials , somnolence was reported in 8 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients compared to 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
In two 6 - week and one 8 - week trials of depressive episodes of bipolar I disorder , VRAYLAR - treated patients reported 7 % somnolence and 4 % in the placebo - treated patients .
In 6 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials , somnolence was reported in 6 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients compared to 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
In one 8 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trial , somnolence was reported in 11 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients compared to 6 % of placebo - treated patients .
Patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery , including motor vehicles , until they are reasonably certain that therapy with VRAYLAR does not affect them adversely .
5 . 13 Body Temperature Dysregulation Atypical antipsychotics may disrupt the body ’ s ability to reduce core body temperature .
Strenuous exercise , exposure to extreme heat , dehydration , and anticholinergic medications may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature ; use VRAYLAR with caution in patient who may experience these conditions .
5 . 14 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use .
Dysphagia has been reported with VRAYLAR .
VRAYLAR and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions , Including Stroke , in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Tardive Dyskinesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Late Occurring Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Metabolic Changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Leukopenia , Neutropenia , and Agranulocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Falls [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Body Temperature Dysregulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] • Dysphagia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) were ( 6 . 1 ) : • Schizophrenia : extrapyramidal symptoms and akathisia • Bipolar mania : extrapyramidal symptoms , akathisia , dyspepsia , vomiting , somnolence , and restlessness • Bipolar depression : nausea , akathisia , restlessness , and extrapyramidal symptoms • Adjunctive treatment of MDD : akathisia , restlessness , fatigue , constipation , nausea , insomnia , increased appetite , dizziness , and extrapyramidal symptoms To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The information below is derived from an integrated clinical study database for VRAYLAR consisting of 6 , 722 adult patients exposed to one or more doses of VRAYLAR for the treatment of schizophrenia , manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder , bipolar depression , and adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder in placebo - controlled studies .
This experience corresponds with a total experience of 1 , 182 . 8 patient - years .
A total of 4 , 329 VRAYLAR - treated patients had at least 6 weeks and 296 VRAYLAR - treated patients had at least 48 weeks of exposure .
Patients with Schizophrenia The following findings are based on four placebo - controlled , 6 - week schizophrenia trials with VRAYLAR doses ranging from 1 . 5 to 12 mg once daily .
The maximum recommended dosage is 6 mg daily .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment : There was no single adverse reaction leading to discontinuation that occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % in VRAYLAR - treated patients and at least twice the rate of placebo .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : extrapyramidal symptoms and akathisia .
Adverse Reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo , at any dose are shown in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of VRAYLAR - treated Patients and > Placebo - treated Adult Patients in 6 - Week Schizophrenia TrialsSystem Organ Class / Preferred Term VRAYLAR * Placebo ( N = 584 ) ( % ) 1 . 5 to 3 mg / day ( N = 539 ) ( % ) 4 . 5 to 6 mg / day ( N = 575 ) ( % ) 9 to 12 mg / day ⸰ ( N = 203 ) ( % ) Cardiac Disorders Tachycardiaa 1 2 2 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal painb 5 3 4 7 Constipation 5 6 7 10 Diarrheac 3 1 4 5 Dry Mouth 2 1 2 3 Dyspepsia 4 4 5 5 Nausea 5 5 7 8 Toothache 4 3 3 6 Vomiting 3 4 5 5 General Disorders / Administration Site Conditions Fatigued 1 1 3 2 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 1 1 2 Urinary tract infection 1 1 < 1 2 Investigations Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 1 1 2 3 Hepatic enzyme increasede < 1 1 1 2 Weight increased 1 3 2 3 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 2 1 3 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 1 2 1 2 Back pain 2 3 3 1 Pain in extremity 3 2 2 4 Nervous System Disorders Akathisia 4 9 13 14 Extrapyramidal symptomsf 8 15 19 20 Headacheg 13 9 11 18 Somnolenceh 5 5 8 10 Dizziness 2 3 5 5 Psychiatric Disorders Agitation 4 3 5 3 Insomniai 11 12 13 11 Restlessness 3 4 6 5 Anxiety 4 6 5 3 Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal disorders Cough 2 1 2 4 Skin and Subcutaneous Disorders Rash 1 < 1 1 2 Vascular Disorders Hypertensionj 1 2 3 6 Note : Figures rounded to the nearest integer * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient aTachycardia terms : heart rate increased , sinus tachycardia , tachycardia bAbdominal pain terms : abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal pain upper , gastrointestinal pain cDiarrhea terms : diarrhea , frequent bowel movements dFatigueterms : asthenia , fatigue eHepatic enzyme increase terms : alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , hepatic enzyme increased fExtrapyramidal Symptoms terms : bradykinesia , cogwheel rigidity , drooling , dyskinesia , dystonia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypokinesia , masked facies , muscle rigidity , muscle tightness , Musculoskeletal stiffness , oculogyric crisis , oromandibular dystonia , parkinsonism , salivary hypersecretion , tardive dyskinesia , torticollis , tremor , trismus gHeadache terms : headache , tension headache hSomnolenceterms : hypersomnia , sedation , somnolence iInsomnia terms : initial insomnia , insomnia , middle insomnia , terminal insomnia jHypertensionterms : blood pressure diastolic increased , blood pressure increased , blood pressure systolic increased , hypertension ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Patients with Bipolar Mania The following findings are based on three placebo - controlled , 3 - week bipolar mania trials with VRAYLAR doses ranging from 3 to 12 mg once daily .
The maximum recommended dosage is 6 mg daily .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment : The adverse reaction leading to discontinuation that occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % in VRAYLAR - treated patients and at least twice the rate of placebo was akathisia ( 2 % ) .
Overall , 12 % of the patients who received VRAYLAR discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction , compared with 7 % of placebo - treated patients in these trials .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : extrapyramidal symptoms , akathisia , dyspepsia , vomiting , somnolence , and restlessness .
Adverse Reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo at any dose are shown in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of VRAYLAR - treated Patients and > Placebo - treated Adult Patients in 3 - Week Bipolar Mania TrialsSystem Organ Class / Preferred Term VRAYLAR * Placebo ( N = 442 ) ( % ) 3 to 6 mg / day ( N = 263 ) ( % ) 9 to 12 mg / day ⸰ ( N = 360 ) ( % ) Cardiac Disorders Tachycardiaa 1 2 1 Eye Disorders Vision blurred 1 4 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 7 13 11 Constipation 5 6 11 Vomiting 4 10 8 Dry mouth 2 3 2 Dyspepsia 4 7 9 Abdominal painb 5 6 8 Diarrheac 5 5 6 Toothache 2 4 3 General Disorders / Administration Site Conditions Fatigued 2 4 5 Pyrexiae 2 1 4 Investigations Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 2 2 3 Hepatic enzymes increasedf < 1 1 3 Weight increased 2 2 3 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 3 3 4 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Pain in extremity 2 4 2 Back pain 1 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Akathisia 5 20 21 Extrapyramidal Symptomsg 12 26 29 Headacheh 13 14 13 Dizziness 4 7 6 Somnolencei 4 7 8 Psychiatric Disorders Insomniaj 7 9 8 Restlessness 2 7 7 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 2 1 3 Vascular Disorders Hypertensionk 1 5 4 Note : Figures rounded to the nearest integer * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient aTachycardia terms : heart rate increased , sinus tachycardia , tachycardia bAbdominal pain terms : abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , abdominal tenderness , cDiarrhea : diarrhea , frequent bowel movements dFatigueterms : asthenia , fatigue ePyrexia terms : body temperature increased , pyrexia fHepatic enzymes increased terms : alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , hepatic enzyme increased , transaminases increased gExtrapyramidal Symptoms terms : bradykinesia , drooling , dyskinesia , dystonia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypokinesia , muscle rigidity , muscle tightness , musculoskeletal stiffness , oromandibular dystonia , parkinsonism , salivary hypersecretion , tremor hHeadache terms : headache , tension headache iSomnolence terms : hypersomnia , sedation , somnolence jInsomnia terms : initial insomnia , insomnia , middle insomnia kHypertensionterms : blood pressure diastolic increased , blood pressure increased , hypertension ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Patients with Bipolar Depression The following findings are based on three placebo - controlled , two 6 - week and one 8 - week bipolar depression trials with VRAYLAR doses of 1 . 5 mg and 3 mg once daily .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment : There were no adverse reaction leading to discontinuation that occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % in VRAYLAR - treated patients and at least twice the rate of placebo .
Overall , 6 % of the patients who received VRAYLAR discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction , compared with 5 % of placebo - treated patients in these trials .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : nausea , akathisia , restlessness , and extrapyramidal symptoms .
Adverse Reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo at 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg doses are shown in Table 8 .
Table 8 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of VRAYLAR - treated Patients and > Placebo - treated Adult Patients in Two 6 - Week and One 8 - Week Bipolar Depression Trials VRAYLAR Placebo ( N = 468 ) ( % ) 1 . 5 mg / day ( N = 470 ) ( % ) 3 mg / day ( N = 469 ) ( % ) Restlessness 3 2 7 Akathisia 2 6 10 Extrapyramidal symptomsa 2 4 6 Dizziness 2 4 3 Somnolenceb 4 7 6 Nausea 3 7 7 Increased appetite 1 3 3 Weight increase < 1 2 2 Fatiguec 2 4 3 Insomniad 7 7 10 aExtrapyramidal symptoms terms : akinesia , drooling , dyskinesia , dystonia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypokinesia , muscle tightness , musculoskeletal stiffness , myoclonus , oculogyric crisis , salivary hypersecretion , tardive dyskinesia , tremor bSomnolence terms : hypersomnia , sedation , somnolence cFatigue terms : asthenia , fatigue , malaise dInsomnia terms : initial insomnia , insomnia , insomnia related to another mental condition , middle insomnia , sleep disorder , terminal insomnia Adjunctive Therapy in Major Depressive Disorder The following findings are based on two placebo - controlled , fixed - dose 6 - week trials with VRAYLAR doses of 1 . 5 and 3 mg once daily plus an antidepressant and one placebo - controlled , flexible - dose 8 - week trial with VRAYLAR doses of ( 1 to 2 mg ) and ( 2 to 4 . 5 mg ) once daily plus an antidepressant for adjunctive therapy in MDD .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment : The adverse reaction leading to discontinuation that occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % in VRAYLAR - treated patients and at least twice the rate of placebo was akathisia ( 2 % ) .
Overall , 6 % of the patients who received VRAYLAR discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction , compared with 3 % of placebo - treated patients in these trials .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : Akathisia , nausea , and insomnia occurred in two 6 - week , fixed - dose trials .
Akathisia , restlessness , fatigue , constipation , nausea , increased appetite , dizziness , insomnia , and extrapyramidal symptoms occurred in one 8 - week flexible - dose trial .
Adverse Reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo at 1 . 5 mg or 3 mg doses are shown in Table 9 .
Table 9 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of VRAYLAR - Treated Patients and > Placebo - Treated Adult Patients in Two Fixed - Dose 6 - Week Placebo - Controlled Trials of Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder System Organ Class / Preferred Term Placebo + ADT ( N = 503 ) ( % ) VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg / day + ADT ( N = 502 ) ( % ) 3 mg / day + ADT ( N = 503 ) ( % ) Eye Disorders Vision Blurred < 1 < 1 2 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 3 7 6 Dry Mouth 2 3 3 Constipation 1 2 2 Vomiting 1 1 2 General Disorders Fatigue 2 3 3 Investigations Weight increased 1 2 2 Nervous System Disorders Akathisiaa 2 7 10 Somnolenceb 4 5 7 Extrapyramidal Symptomsc 4 5 6 Psychiatric Disorders Insomniad 5 9 10 Restlessness 2 4 4 Anxiety 1 2 1 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Hyperhidrosis 1 1 2 Note : Figures rounded to the nearest integer aAkathisia terms : akathisia , psychomotor hyperactivity , feeling jittery , nervousness , tension bSomnolence terms : hypersomnia , sedation , lethargy , somnolence cExtrapyramidal symptoms terms : drooling , dyskinesia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypotonia , muscle contractions involuntary , muscle rigidity , muscle spasms , muscle tightness , muscle twitching , musculoskeletal stiffness , myoclonus , oromandibular dystonia , parkinsonism , resting tremor , restless legs syndrome , stiff leg syndrome , salivary hypersecretion , stiff tongue , tardive dyskinesia , tremor , trismus dInsomnia terms : initial insomnia , insomnia , middle insomnia , poor sleep quality , sleep disorder , terminal insomnia Adverse Reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo at 1 mg to 2 mg per day or 2 mg to 4 . 5 mg per day doses are shown in Table 10 .
Table 10 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of VRAYLAR - Treated Patients and > Placebo - Treated Adult Patients in a Flexible - dose 8 - Week Placebo - Controlled Trial of Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder System Organ Class / Preferred Term Placebo + ADT ( N = 266 ) ( % ) VRAYLAR 1 to 2 mg / day + ADT ( N = 273 ) ( % ) VRAYLAR 2 to 4 . 5 mg / day + ADT ( N = 273 ) ( % ) Cardiac disorders Palpitations 1 2 < 1 Eye disorders Vision blurred 1 1 4 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 5 7 13 Constipation 2 2 5 Dry mouth 3 5 4 Vomiting < 1 1 3 General disorders Fatigue 4 7 10 Edema < 1 2 1 Infections Nasopharyngitis 2 4 1 Investigations Increased appetite 2 2 5 Weight increased 1 2 3 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue disorders Back pain 1 2 3 Myalgia 0 1 2 Nervous System disorders Akathisiaa 3 8 23 Extrapyramidal symptomsb 5 12 18 Somnolencec 6 10 11 Dizziness 2 4 5 Psychiatric disorders Insomniad 8 14 16 Restlessness 3 8 8 Agitation < 1 < 1 3 Anxiety < 1 1 3 aAkathisia terms : akathisia , feeling jittery , nervousness , tension bExtrapyramidal symptoms terms : cogwheel rigidity , drooling , dyskinesia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypertonia , jaw stiffness , muscle contractions involuntary , muscle disorder , muscle rigidity , muscle spasms , muscle tightness , muscle twitching , musculoskeletal stiffness , nuchal rigidity , parkinsonism , psychomotor retardation , reduced facial expression , resting tremor , restless legs syndrome , sensation of heaviness , salivary hypersecretion , tremor cSomnolence terms : hypersomnia , sedation , lethargy , somnolence dInsomniaterms : initial insomnia , insomnia , middle insomnia , terminal insomnia , sleep disorder , poor sleep quality Dystonia Symptoms of dystonia , prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups , may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment .
Dystonic symptoms include : spasm of the neck muscles , sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat , swallowing difficulty , difficulty breathing , and / or protrusion of the tongue .
Although these symptoms can occur at low doses , they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and higher doses of first - generation antipsychotic drugs .
An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups .
Extrapyramidal Symptoms ( EPS ) and Akathisia In schizophrenia , bipolar mania , bipolar depression , and adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials , data were objectively collected using the Simpson Angus Scale ( SAS ) for treatment - emergent EPS ( parkinsonism ) ( SAS total score ≤ 3 at baseline and > 3 post - baseline ) and the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale ( BARS ) for treatment - emergent akathisia ( BARS total score ≤ 2 at baseline and > 2 post - baseline ) .
In 6 - week schizophrenia trials , the incidence of reported adverse reactions related to extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , excluding akathisia and restlessness was 17 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 8 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 0 . 3 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of akathisia was 11 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 4 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 0 . 5 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
In 3 - week bipolar mania trials , the incidence of reported adverse reactions related to extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , excluding akathisia and restlessness , was 28 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 12 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to a discontinuation in 1 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of akathisia was 20 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 5 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 2 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
In the two 6 - week and one 8 - week bipolar depression trials , the incidence of reported adverse reactions related to EPS , excluding akathisia and restlessness was 4 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 0 . 4 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of akathisia was 8 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 1 . 5 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
In the two 6 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials , the incidence of reported adverse reactions related to EPS , excluding akathisia and restlessness , was 6 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 4 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 0 . 3 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 6 % of placebo - treated patients .
The combined incidence of akathisia and restlessness was 12 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 4 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 2 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
In one 8 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trial , the incidence of reported adverse reactions related to EPS , excluding akathisia and restlessness , was 12 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 5 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 1 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of akathisia and restlessness was 22 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 6 % for placebo - treated patients .
These reactions led to discontinuation in 3 % of VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Cataracts The development of cataracts was observed in nonclinical studies [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Cataracts were reported during the premarketing clinical trials of cariprazine ; however , the duration of trials was too short to assess any association to cariprazine usage .
Vital Signs Changes There were no clinically meaningful differences between VRAYLAR - treated patients and placebo - treated patients in mean change from baseline to endpoint in supine blood pressure parameters except for an increase in supine diastolic blood pressure in the 9 - 12 mg / day VRAYLAR - treated patients with schizophrenia .
Pooled data from 6 - week schizophrenia trials are shown in Table 11 , and from 3 - week bipolar mania trials are shown in Table 12 .
Table 11 .
Mean Change in Blood Pressure at Endpoint in 6 - Week Schizophrenia Trials Placebo ( N = 574 ) VRAYLAR * 1 . 5 – 3 mg / day ( N = 512 ) 4 . 5 – 6 mg / day ( N = 570 ) 9 – 12 mg / day ⸰ ( N = 203 ) Supine Systolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) + 0 . 9 + 0 . 6 + 1 . 3 + 2 . 1 Supine Diastolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) + 0 . 4 + 0 . 2 + 1 . 6 + 3 . 4 * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Table 12 .
Mean Change in Blood Pressure at Endpoint in 3 - Week Bipolar Mania Trials Placebo ( N = 439 ) VRAYLAR * 3 - 6 mg / day ( N = 259 ) 9 – 12 mg / day ⸰ ( N = 360 ) Supine Systolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) - 0 . 5 + 0 . 8 + 1 . 8 Supine Diastolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) + 0 . 9 + 1 . 5 + 1 . 9 * Data shown by modal daily dose , defined as most frequently administered dose per patient ⸰ The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
In the two 6 - week and one 8 - week bipolar depression trials , there were no clinically meaningful differences between VRAYLAR - treated patients and placebo - treated patients in mean change from baseline to endpoint in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
VRAYLAR - treated patients ’ supine blood pressure increased by 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 mmHg ; placebo - treated patients ’ supine blood pressure increased by 0 . 2 mmHg .
In two 6 - week and one 8 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials , there were no clinically meaningful differences between VRAYLAR - treated patients and placebo - treated patients in mean change from baseline to endpoint in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
At the end of the 6 - week trials , VRAYLAR - treated patients ’ supine systolic blood pressure decreased by 0 . 1 to 0 . 7 mmHg ; placebo - treated patients ’ supine systolic blood pressure decreased by 0 . 1 mmHg .
VRAYLAR - treated patients ’ supine diastolic blood pressure increased by 0 . 1 mmHg and placebo - treated patients ’ supine diastolic blood pressure increased by 0 . 2 mmHg .
Changes in Laboratory Tests The proportions of patients with transaminase elevations of ≥ 3 times the upper limits of the normal reference range in 6 - week schizophrenia trials ranged between 1 % and 2 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients , increasing with dose , and was 1 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with transaminase elevations of ≥ 3 times the upper limits of the normal reference range in 3 - week bipolar mania trials ranged between 2 % and 4 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients depending on dose group administered and 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with transaminase elevations of ≥ 3 times the upper limits of the normal reference range in 6 - week and 8 - week bipolar depression trials ranged between 0 % and 0 . 5 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients depending on dose group administered and 0 . 4 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with transaminase elevations of ≥ 3 times the upper limits of the normal reference range in two 6 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials ranged between 0 % and 1 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients depending on dose group administered and 0 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with elevations of creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) greater than 1000 U / L in 6 - week schizophrenia trials ranged between 4 % and 6 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients , increasing with dose , and was 4 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with elevations of CPK greater than 1000 U / L in 3 - week bipolar mania trials was about 4 % in VRAYLAR and placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with elevations of CPK greater than 1000 U / L in 6 - week and 8 - week bipolar depression trials ranged between 0 . 2 % and 1 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 . 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
The proportions of patients with elevations of CPK greater than 1000 U / L in two 6 - week adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder trials ranged between 0 . 6 % and 0 . 8 % for VRAYLAR - treated patients versus 0 % for placebo - treated patients .
Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Pre - marketing Evaluation of VRAYLAR Adverse reactions listed below were reported by patients treated with VRAYLAR at doses of ≥ 1 . 5 mg once daily within the premarketing database of 5 , 763 VRAYLAR - treated patients .
The reactions listed are those that could be of clinical importance , as well as reactions that are plausibly drug - related on pharmacologic or other grounds .
Reactions that appear elsewhere in the VRAYLAR label are not included .
Reactions are further categorized by organ class and listed in order of decreasing frequency , according to the following definition : those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients ( frequent ) [ only those not already listed in the tabulated results from placebo - controlled studies appear in this listing ] ; those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients ( infrequent ) ; and those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1 , 000 patients ( rare ) .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Infrequent : gastroesophageal reflux disease , gastritis Hepatobiliary Disorders : Rare : hepatitis Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Frequent : decreased appetite ; Rare : hyponatremia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Rare : rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : Rare : ischemic stroke Psychiatric Disorders : Infrequent : suicide ideation ; Rare : completed suicide , suicide attempts Renal and Urinary Disorders : Infrequent : pollakiuria Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Infrequent : hyperhidrosis 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reaction has been identified during post approval use of VRAYLAR .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders – Stevens - Johnson syndrome 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : Reduce VRAYLAR dosage by half ( 2 . 6 , 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A4 inducers : Concomitant use is not recommended ( 2 . 6 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with VRAYLAR Table 13 .
Clinically Important Drug Interactions with VRAYLARStrong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of VRAYLAR with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposures of cariprazine and its major active metabolite , didesmethylcariprazine ( DDCAR ) , compared to use of VRAYLAR alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : If VRAYLAR is used with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , reduce VRAYLAR dosage [ see Dosageand Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact : CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation and elimination of the active metabolites of cariprazine .
The effect of CYP3A4 inducers on the exposure of VRAYLAR has not been evaluated , and the net effect is unclear [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Concomitant use of VRAYLAR with a CYP3A4 inducer is not recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 6 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to VRAYLAR during pregnancy .
For more information , contact the National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visit http : / / womensmentalhealth . org / clinical - and - research - programs / pregnancyregistry / .
Risk Summary Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and / or withdrawal symptoms following delivery ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
There are no available data on VRAYLAR use in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks for birth defects or miscarriage .
The major active metabolite of cariprazine , DDCAR , has been detected in adult patients up to 12 weeks after discontinuation of VRAYLAR [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Based on animal data , VRAYLAR may cause fetal harm .
Administration of cariprazine to rats during the period of organogenesis caused malformations , lower pup survival , and developmental delays at drug exposures less than the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 6 mg / day .
However , cariprazine was not teratogenic in rabbits at doses up to 4 . 6 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Extrapyramidal and / or withdrawal symptoms , including agitation , hypertonia , hypotonia , tremor , somnolence , respiratory distress , and feeding disorder have been reported in neonates whose mothers were exposed to antipsychotic drugs during the third trimester of pregnancy .
These symptoms have varied in severity .
Some neonates recovered within hours or days without specific treatment ; others required prolonged hospitalization .
Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal and / or withdrawal symptoms and manage symptoms appropriately .
Data Animal Data Administration of cariprazine to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at oral doses of 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 , and 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 2 to 3 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine ( i . e . sum of cariprazine , DCAR , and DDCAR ) , caused fetal developmental toxicity at all doses , which included reduced body weight , decreased male anogenital distance , and skeletal malformations of bent limb bones , scapula , and humerus .
These effects occurred in the absence or presence of maternal toxicity .
Maternal toxicity , observed as a reduction in body weight and food consumption , occurred at doses 1 . 2 and 3 . 5 - times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
At these doses , cariprazine caused fetal external malformations ( localized fetal thoracic edema ) , visceral variations ( undeveloped / underdeveloped renal papillae and / or distended urethrae ) , and skeletal developmental variations ( bent ribs , unossified sternebrae ) .
Cariprazine had no effect on fetal survival .
Administration of cariprazine to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation at oral doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 , and 1 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 03 to 0 . 4 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine , caused a decrease in postnatal survival , birth weight , and post - weaning body weight of first generation pups at the dose that is 0 . 4 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine in absence of maternal toxicity .
First generation pups also had pale , cold bodies and developmental delays ( renal papillae not developed or underdeveloped and decreased auditory startle response in males ) .
Reproductive performance of the first generation pups was unaffected ; however , the second generation pups had clinical signs and lower body weight similar to those of the first generation pups .
Administration of cariprazine to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis at oral doses of 0 . 1 , 1 , and 5 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 02 to 4 . 6 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine , was not teratogenic .
Maternal body weight and food consumption were decreased at 4 . 6 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine ; however , no adverse effects were observed on pregnancy parameters or reproductive organs .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted to assess the presence of cariprazine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Cariprazine is present in rat milk .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VRAYLAR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from VRAYLAR or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Pediatric studies of VRAYLAR have not been conducted .
Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric patients [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of VRAYLAR did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether or not they respond differently from younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Antipsychotic drugs increase the risk of death in elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment for VRAYLAR is required in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score between 5 and 9 ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Usage of VRAYLAR is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score between 10 and 15 ) .
VRAYLAR has not been evaluated in this patient population .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment for VRAYLAR is required in patients with mild to moderate ( CrCL ≥ 30 mL / minute ) renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Usage of VRAYLAR is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 30 mL / minute ) .
VRAYLAR has not been evaluated in this patient population .
8 . 8 Smoking No dosage adjustment for VRAYLAR is needed for patients who smoke .
VRAYLAR is not a substrate for CYP1A2 ; smoking is not expected to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of VRAYLAR .
8 . 9 Other Specific Populations No dosage adjustment is required based on patient ’ s age , sex , or race .
These factors do not affect the pharmacokinetics of VRAYLAR [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance VRAYLAR is not a controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse VRAYLAR has not been systematically studied in animals or humans for its abuse potential or its ability to induce tolerance .
9 . 3 Dependence VRAYLAR has not been systematically studied in animals or humans for its potential for physical dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Human Experience In pre - marketing clinical trialsinvolving VRAYLAR in approximately 5000 patients or healthy subjects , accidental acute overdosage ( 48 mg / day ) was reported in one patient .
This patient experienced orthostasis and sedation .
The patient fully recovered the same day .
10 . 2 Management of Overdosage No specific antidotes for VRAYLAR are known .
In managing overdose , provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring , and consider the possibility of multiple drug involvement .
In case of an overdose , consult a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient of VRAYLAR is cariprazine , an atypical antipsychotic , in hydrochloride salt form .
The chemical name is trans - N - { 4 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( 2 , 3 - dichlorophenyl ) piperazine - 1 - yl ] ethyl ] cyclohexyl } - N ’ , N ’ - dimethylurea hydrochloride ; its empirical formula is C21H32Cl2N4O • HCl and its molecular weight is 463 . 9 g / mol .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] VRAYLAR capsules are intended for oral administration only .
Each hard gelatin capsule contains a white to off - white powder of cariprazine HCl , which is equivalent to 1 . 5 , 3 , 4 . 5 , or 6 mg of cariprazine base .
In addition , capsules include the following inactive ingredients : gelatin , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch , shellac , and titanium dioxide .
Colorants include black iron oxide ( 1 . 5 , 3 , and 6 mg ) , FD & C Blue 1 ( 3 , 4 . 5 , and 6 mg ) , FD & C Red 3 ( 6 mg ) , FD & C Red 40 ( 3 and 4 . 5 mg ) , or yellow iron oxide ( 3 and 4 . 5 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of cariprazine is unknown .
However , the efficacy of cariprazine could be mediated through a combination of partial agonist activity at central dopamine D2 and serotonin 5 - HT1A receptors and antagonist activity at serotonin 5 - HT2A receptors .
Cariprazine forms two major metabolites , desmethylcariprazine ( DCAR ) and didesmethylcariprazine ( DDCAR ) , that have in vitro receptor binding profiles similar to the parent drug .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cariprazine acts as a partial agonist at the dopamine D3 andD2 receptors with high binding affinity ( Ki values 0 . 085 nM , and 0 . 49 nM ( D2L ) and 0 . 69 nM ( D2S ) , respectively ) and at the serotonin 5 - HT1A receptors ( Ki value 2 . 6 nM ) .
Cariprazine acts as an antagonist at 5 - HT2B and 5 - HT2A receptors with high and moderate binding affinity ( Ki values 0 . 58 nM and 18 . 8 nM respectively ) as well as it binds to the histamine H1 receptors ( Ki value 23 . 2 nM ) .
Cariprazine shows lower binding affinity to the serotonin 5 - HT2C and α1A - adrenergic receptors ( Ki values 134 nM and 155 nM , respectively ) and has no appreciable affinity for cholinergic muscarinic receptors ( IC50 > 1000 nM ) .
Effect on QTc Interval At a dose three - times the maximum recommended dose , cariprazine does not prolong the QTc interval to clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics VRAYLAR activity is thought to be mediated by cariprazine and its two major active metabolites , desmethyl cariprazine ( DCAR ) and didesmethyl cariprazine ( DDCAR ) , which are pharmacologically equipotent to cariprazine .
After multiple dose administration of VRAYLAR , mean cariprazine and DCAR concentrations reached steady state at around Week 1 to Week 2 and mean DDCAR concentrations appeared to be approaching steady state at around Week 4 to Week 8 in a 12 - week study ( Figure 1 ) .
The half - lives based on time to reach steady state , estimated from the mean concentration - time curves , are 2 to 4 days for cariprazine , about 1 to 2 days for DCAR , and approximately 1 to 3 weeks for DDCAR .
The time to reach steady state for the major active metabolite DDCAR was variable across patients , with some patients not achieving steady state at the end of the 12 week treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Mean concentrations of DCAR and DDCAR are approximately 30 % and 400 % , respectively , of cariprazine concentrations by the end of 12 - week treatment .
After discontinuation of VRAYLAR , cariprazine , DCAR , and DDCAR plasma concentrations declined in a multi - exponential manner .
Mean plasma concentrations of DDCAR decreased by about 50 % 1 week after the last dose , and mean cariprazine and DCAR concentration dropped by about 50 % in about 1 day .
There was an approximately 90 % decline in plasma exposure within 1 week for cariprazine and DCAR , and at about 4 weeks for DDCAR .
Following a single dose of 1 mg of cariprazine administration , DDCAR remained detectable 8 weeks post - dose .
After multiple dosing of VRAYLAR , plasma exposure of cariprazine , DCAR , and DDCAR increases approximately proportionally over the therapeutic dose range .
Figure 1 .
Plasma Concentration ( Mean ± SE ) - Time Profile During and Following 12 - weeks of Treatment with Cariprazine 6 mg / daya [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Trough concentrations shown during treatment with cariprazine 6 mg / day .
SE : standard error ; TOTAL CAR : sum concentration of cariprazine , DCAR and DDCAR ; CAR : cariprazine Absorption After single dose administration of VRAYLAR , the peak plasma cariprazine concentration occurred in approximately 3 - 6 hours .
Administration of a single dose of 1 . 5 mg VRAYLAR capsule with a high - fat meal did not significantly affect the Cmax and AUC of cariprazine or DCAR .
Distribution Cariprazine and its major active metabolites are highly bound ( 91 to 97 % ) to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism Cariprazine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and , to a lesser extent , by CYP2D6 to DCAR and DDCAR .
DCAR is further metabolized into DDCAR by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 .
DDCAR is then metabolized by CYP3A4 to a hydroxylated metabolite .
Excretion Following administration of 12 . 5 mg / day cariprazine to patients with schizophrenia for 27 days , about 21 % of the daily dose was found in urine , with approximately 1 . 2 % of the daily dose excreted in urine as unchanged cariprazine .
Studies in Specific Populations Hepatic Impairment Compared to healthy subjects , exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) in patients with either mild or moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score between 5 and 9 ) was approximately 25 % higher for cariprazine and 20 % to 30 % lower for the major metabolites ( DCAR and DDCAR ) following daily doses of 0 . 5 mg cariprazine for 14 days [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment Cariprazine and its major active metabolites are minimally excreted in urine .
Pharmacokinetic analyses indicated no significant relationship between plasma clearance and creatinine clearance [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers CYP2D6 poor metabolizer status does not have clinically relevant effect on pharmacokinetics of cariprazine , DCAR , or DDCAR .
Age , Sex , Race Age , sex , or race does not have clinically relevant effect on pharmacokinetics of cariprazine , DCAR , or DDCAR .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies Cariprazine and its major active metabolites did not induce CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 enzymes and were weak inhibitors of CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 in vitro .
Cariprazine was also a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19 , CYP2A6 , and CYP2E1 in vitro .
Cariprazine and its major active metabolites are not substrates of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , the organic anion transporting polypeptides 1B1 and 1B3 ( OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 ) , or the breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) .
Cariprazine and its major active metabolites were poor or non - inhibitors of transporters OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , BCRP , organic cation transporter 2 ( OCT2 ) , and organic anion transporters 1 and 3 ( OAT1 and OAT3 ) in vitro .
The major active metabolites were also poor or non - inhibitors of transporter P - gp although cariprazine was probably a P - gp inhibitor based on the theoretical GI concentrations at high doses in vitro .
Based on in vitro studies , VRAYLAR is unlikely to cause clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions with substrates of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E , and CYP3A4 , or OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , BCRP , OCT2 , OAT1 and OAT3 .
In vivo studies CYP3A4 inhibitors Co - administration of ketoconazole ( 400 mg / day ) , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , with VRAYLAR ( 0 . 5 mg / day ) increased cariprazine Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h by about 3 . 5 - fold and 4 - fold , respectively ; increased DDCAR Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h by about 1 . 5 - fold ; and decreased DCAR Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h by about one - third .
The impact of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors has not been studied .
CYP3A4 inducers CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation and elimination of the active metabolites of cariprazine .
The effect of CYP3A4 inducers on the plasma exposure of cariprazine and its major active metabolites has not been evaluated , and the net effect is unclear .
CYP2D6 inhibitors CYP2D6 inhibitors are not expected to influence pharmacokinetics of cariprazine , DCAR , or DDCAR based on the observations in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers .
Proton pump inhibitors Co - administration of pantoprazole ( 40 mg / day ) , a proton pump inhibitor , with VRAYLAR ( 6 mg / day ) in patients with schizophrenia for 15 days did not affect cariprazine exposure at steady - state , based on Cmax and AUC0 - 24 .
Similarly , no significant change in exposure to DCAR and DDCAR was observed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no increase in the incidence of tumors following daily oral administration of cariprazine to rats for 2 years and to Tg . rasH2 mice for 6 months at doses which are up to 4 and 19 times respectively , the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine , ( i . e . sum of AUC values of cariprazine , DCAR and DDCAR ) .
Rats were administered cariprazine at oral doses of 0 . 25 , 0 . 75 , and 2 . 5 ( males ) / 1 , 2 . 5 , and 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( females ) which are 0 . 2 to 1 . 8 ( males ) / 0 . 8 to 4 . 1 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
Tg . rasH2 mice were administered cariprazine at oral doses of 1 , 5 , and 15 ( males ) / 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day ( females ) which are 0 . 2 to 7 . 9 ( males ) / 2 . 6 to 19 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
Mutagenesis Cariprazine was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , nor clastogenic in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay or in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
However , cariprazine increased the mutation frequency in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay under conditions of metabolic activation .
The major human metabolite DDCAR was notmutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , however , it was clastogenic and induced structural chromosomal aberration in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay .
Impairment of Fertility Cariprazine was administered orally to male and female rats before mating , through mating , and up to day 7 of gestation at doses of 1 , 3 , and 10 mg / kg / day which are 1 . 6 to 16 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on mg / m2 .
In female rats , lower fertility and conception indices were observed at all dose levels which are equal to or higher than 1 . 6 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on mg / m2 .
No effects on male fertility were noted at any dose up to 4 . 3 times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Cariprazine caused bilateral cataract and cystic degeneration of the retina in the dog following oral daily administration for 13 weeks and / or 1 year and retinal degeneration / atrophy in the rat following oral daily administration for 2 years .
Cataract in the dog was observed at 4 mg / kg / day which is 7 . 1 ( male ) and 7 . 7 ( female ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
The NOEL for cataract and retinal toxicity in the dog is 2 mg / kg / day which is 5 ( males ) to 3 . 6 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
Increased incidence and severity of retinal degeneration / atrophy in the rat occurred at all doses tested , including the low dose of 0 . 75 mg / kg / day , at total cariprazine plasma levels less than clinical exposure ( AUC ) at the MRHD of 6 mg / day .
Cataract was not observed in other repeat dose studies in pigmented mice or albino rats .
Phospholipidosis was observed in the lungs of rats , dogs , and mice ( with or without inflammation ) and in the adrenal gland cortex of dogs at clinically relevant exposures ( AUC ) of total cariprazine .
Phospholipidosis was not reversible at the end of the 1 - 2 month drug - free periods .
Inflammation was observed in the lungs of dogs dosed daily for 1 year with a NOEL of 1 mg / kg / day which is 2 . 7 ( males ) and 1 . 7 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
No inflammation was observed at the end of 2 - month drug free period following administration of 2 mg / kg / day which is 5 ( males ) and 3 . 6 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine ; however , inflammation was still present at higher doses .
Hypertrophy of the adrenal gland cortex was observed at clinically relevant total cariprazine plasma concentrations in rats ( females only ) and mice following daily oral administration of cariprazine for 2 years and 6 months , respectively .
Reversible hypertrophy / hyperplasia and vacuolation / vesiculation of the adrenal gland cortex were observed following daily oral administration of cariprazine to dogs for 1 year .
The NOEL was 2 mg / kg / day which is 5 ( males ) and 3 . 6 ( females ) times the MRHD of 6 mg / day based on AUC of total cariprazine .
The relevance of these findings to human risk is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 1 Schizophrenia The efficacy of VRAYLAR for the treatment of schizophrenia was established in three , 6 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials in patients ( mean age of 37 years , aged 18 to 60 years ; 31 % were female ; and 45 % were Caucasian ) who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4 th edition , Text Revision ( DSM - IV - TR ) criteria for schizophrenia .
An active control arm ( risperidone or aripiprazole ) was included in two trials to assess assay sensitivity .
In all three trials , VRAYLAR was superior to placebo .
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale ( PANSS ) and Clinical Global Impressions - Severity ( CGI - S ) rating scales were used as the primary and secondary efficacy measures , respectively , for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms in each trial : • PANSS is a 30 - item scale that measures positive symptoms of schizophrenia ( 7 items ) , negative symptoms of schizophrenia ( 7 items ) , and general psychopathology ( 16 items ) , each rated on a scale of 1 ( absent ) to 7 ( extreme ) .
The PANSS total score may range from 30 to 210 with the higher score reflecting greater severity .
• The CGI - S is a validated clinician - related scale that measures the patient ’ s current illness state and overall clinical state on a 1 ( normal , not at all ill ) to 7 - point ( extremely ill ) scale .
In each study , the primary endpoint was change from baseline in PANSS total score at the end of week 6 .
The change from baseline for VRAYLAR and active control groups was compared to placebo .
The results of the trials are shown in Table 14 .
The time course of efficacy results of Study 2 is shown in Figure 2 .
Study 1 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 711 ) involving three fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 , 3 , or 4 . 5 mg / day ) and an active control ( risperidone ) , all VRAYLAR doses and the active control were superior to placebo on the PANSS total score and the CGI - S .
Study 2 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 604 ) involving two fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 3 or 6 mg / day ) and an active control ( aripiprazole ) , both VRAYLAR doses and the active control were superior to placebo on the PANSS total score and the CGI - S .
Study 3 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 439 ) involving two flexible - dose range groups of VRAYLAR ( 3 to 6 mg / day or 6 to 9 mg / day ) , both VRAYLAR groups were superior to placebo on the PANSS total score and the CGI - S .
The efficacy of VRAYLAR was demonstrated at doses ranging from 1 . 5 to 9 mg / day compared to placebo .
There was , however , a dose - related increase in certain adverse reactions , particularly above 6 mg .
Therefore , the maximum recommended dose is 6 mg / day .
Examination of population subgroups based on age ( there were few patients over 55 ) , sex , and race did not suggest any clear evidence of differential responsiveness .
Table 14 .
Primary Analysis Results from Schizophrenia TrialsStudy Number Treatment Group ( # ITT patients ) Primary Efficacy Endpoint : PANSS Total Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day ) * ( n = 140 ) 97 . 1 ( 9 . 1 ) - 19 . 4 ( 1 . 6 ) - 7 . 6 ( - 11 . 8 , - 3 . 3 ) VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) * ( n = 140 ) 97 . 2 ( 8 . 7 ) - 20 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) - 8 . 8 ( - 13 . 1 , - 4 . 6 ) VRAYLAR ( 4 . 5 mg / day ) * ( n = 145 ) 96 . 7 ( 9 . 0 ) - 22 . 3 ( 1 . 6 ) - 10 . 4 ( - 14 . 6 , - 6 . 2 ) Placebo ( n = 148 ) 97 . 3 ( 9 . 2 ) - 11 . 8 ( 1 . 5 ) -- Study 2 VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) * ( n = 151 ) 96 . 1 ( 8 . 7 ) - 20 . 2 ( 1 . 5 ) - 6 . 0 ( - 10 . 1 , - 1 . 9 ) VRAYLAR ( 6 mg / day ) * ( n = 154 ) 95 . 7 ( 9 . 4 ) - 23 . 0 ( 1 . 5 ) - 8 . 8 ( - 12 . 9 , - 4 . 7 ) Placebo ( n = 149 ) 96 . 5 ( 9 . 1 ) - 14 . 3 ( 1 . 5 ) -- Study 3 VRAYLAR ( 3 - 6 mg / day ) * ( n = 147 ) 96 . 3 ( 9 . 3 ) - 22 . 8 ( 1 . 6 ) - 6 . 8 ( - 11 . 3 , - 2 . 4 ) VRAYLAR ( 6 - 9 mg / day ) * b ( n = 147 ) 96 . 3 ( 9 . 0 ) - 25 . 9 ( 1 . 7 ) - 9 . 9 ( - 14 . 5 , - 5 . 3 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) 96 . 6 ( 9 . 3 ) - 16 . 0 ( 1 . 6 ) -- ITT : intent - to - treat ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval aDifference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline * Doses that are statistically significantly superior to placebo bThe maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Figure 2 .
Change from Baseline in PANSS total score byweekly visits ( Study 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The safety and efficacy of VRAYLAR as maintenance treatment in adults with schizophrenia were demonstrated in a randomized withdrawal trial that included 200 patients meeting DSM - IV criteria for schizophrenia who were clinically stable following 20 weeks of open - label cariprazine at doses of 3 to 9 mg / day .
Patients were randomized to receive either placebo or cariprazine at the same dose for up to 72 weeks for observation of relapse .
The primary endpoint was time to relapse .
Relapse during the double - blind phase ( DBP ) was defined as meeting any one of the following criteria : hospitalization due to worsening of schizophrenia , increase in the PANSS total score by ≥ 30 % , increase in CGI - S score by ≥ 2 points , deliberate self - injury , aggressive or violent behavior , clinically significant suicidal or homicidal ideation , or score > 4 on one or more of the following PANSS items : delusions ( P1 ) , conceptual disorganization ( P2 ) , hallucination ( P3 ) , suspiciousness or persecution ( P6 ) , hostility ( P7 ) , uncooperativeness ( G8 ) , or poor impulse control ( G14 ) .
The efficacy of VRAYLAR was demonstrated at doses ranging from 3 to 9 mg / day compared to placebo .
There was , however , a dose - related increase in certain adverse reactions , particularly above 6 mg .
Therefore , the maximum recommended dose is 6 mg / day .
The Kaplan - Meier curves of the time to relapse during the double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized withdrawal phase of the long - term trial are shown in Figure 3 .
Time to relapse was statistically significantly longer in the VRAYLAR - treated group compared to the placebo group .
Figure 3 .
Kaplan - Meier Curves of Cumulative Rate of Relapse During the Double - BlindTreatment Period [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DB = double - blind * The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
14 . 2 Manic or Mixed Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder The efficacy of VRAYLAR in the acute treatment of bipolar mania was established in three , 3 - week placebo - controlled trials in patients ( mean age of 39 years , range 18 to 65 years ; 40 % were female ; and 48 % were Caucasian ) who met DSM - IV - TR criteria for bipolar 1 disorder with manic or mixed episodes with or without psychotic features .
In all three trials , VRAYLAR was superior to placebo .
Young Mania Rating Scale ( YMRS ) and Clinical Global Impressions - Severity scale ( CGI - S ) were used as the primary and secondary efficacy measures , respectively , for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms in each trial : • The YMRS is an 11 - item clinician - rated scale traditionally used to assess the degree of manic symptomatology .
YMRS total score may range from 0 to 60 with a higher score reflecting greater severity .
• The CGI - S is validated clinician - related scale that measures the patient ’ s current illness state and overall clinical state on a 1 ( normal , not at all ill ) to 7 - point ( extremely ill ) scale .
In each study , the primary endpoint was decrease from baseline in YMRS total score at the end of week 3 .
The change from baseline for each VRAYLAR dose group was compared to placebo .
The results of the trials are shown in Table 15 .
The time course of efficacy results is shown in Figure 4 .
Study 4 : In a 3 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 492 ) involving two flexible - dose range groups of VRAYLAR ( 3 to 6 mg / day or 6 to 12 mg / day ) , both VRAYLAR dose groups were superior to placebo on the YMRS total score and the CGI - S .
The 6 to 12 mg / day dose group showed no additional advantage .
Study 5 : In a 3 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 235 ) involving a flexible - dose range of VRAYLAR ( 3 to 12 mg / day ) , VRAYLAR was superior to placebo on the YMRS total score and the CGI - S .
Study 6 : In a 3 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 310 ) involving a flexible - dose range of VRAYLAR ( 3 to 12 mg / day ) , VRAYLAR was superior to placebo on the YMRS total score and the CGI - S .
The efficacy of VRAYLAR was established at doses ranging from 3 to 12 mg / day .
Doses above 6 mg did not appear to have additional benefit over lower doses ( Table 15 ) , and there was a dose - related increase in certain adverse reactions .
Therefore , the maximum recommended dose is 6 mg / day .
Examination of population subgroups based on age ( there were few patients over 55 ) , sex , and race did not suggest any clear evidence of differential responsiveness .
Table 15 .
Primary Analysis Results from Manic or Mixed Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder TrialsStudy Number Treatment Group ( # ITT patients ) Primary Efficacy Endpoint : YMRS Total Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 4 VRAYLAR ( 3 - 6 mg / day ) * ( n = 165 ) 33 . 2 ( 5 . 6 ) - 18 . 6 ( 0 . 8 ) - 6 . 1 ( - 8 . 4 , - 3 . 8 ) VRAYLAR ( 6 - 12 mg / day ) * b ( n = 167 ) 32 . 9 ( 4 . 7 ) - 18 . 5 ( 0 . 8 ) - 5 . 9 ( - 8 . 2 , - 3 . 6 ) Placebo ( n = 160 ) 32 . 6 ( 5 . 8 ) - 12 . 5 ( 0 . 8 ) -- Study 5 VRAYLAR ( 3 - 12 mg / day ) * b ( n = 118 ) 30 . 6 ( 5 . 0 ) - 15 . 0 ( 1 . 1 ) - 6 . 1 ( - 8 . 9 , - 3 . 3 ) Placebo ( n = 117 ) 30 . 2 ( 5 . 2 ) - 8 . 9 ( 1 . 1 ) -- Study 6 VRAYLAR ( 3 - 12 mg / day ) * b ( n = 158 ) 32 . 3 ( 5 . 8 ) - 19 . 6 ( 0 . 9 ) - 4 . 3 ( - 6 . 7 , - 1 . 9 ) Placebo ( n = 152 ) 32 . 1 ( 5 . 6 ) - 15 . 3 ( 0 . 9 ) -- ITT : intent - to - treat ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval aDifference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline * Doses that are statistically significantly superior to placebo bThe maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
Figure 4 .
Change from Baseline in YMRS total score by study visit ( Study 4 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] * The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg .
Doses above 6 mg daily do not confer increased effectiveness sufficient to outweigh dose - related adverse reactions .
14 . 3 Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( Bipolar Depression ) The efficacy of VRAYLAR in the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( bipolar depression ) was established in one 8 - week and two 6 - week placebo - controlled trials in patients ( mean age of 43 years , range 18 to 65 years ; 61 % were female ; and 75 % were Caucasian ) who met DSM - IV - TR or DSM - 5 criteria for depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder .
In each study , the primary endpoint was change from baseline in Montgomery - Asberg Depression Rating Scale ( MADRS ) total score at the end of Week 6 .
The MADRS is a 10 - item clinician - rated scale with total scores ranging from 0 ( no depressive features ) to 60 ( maximum score ) .
The MADRS total score change from baseline for VRAYLAR compared to placebo is shown in Table 16 .
The time course of efficacy results of Study 8 is shown in Figure 5 .
In each study , the VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg dose demonstrated statistical significance over placebo .
The secondary endpoint was change from baseline to Week 6 in CGI - S .
The CGI - S is validated clinician - related scale that measures the patient ’ s current illness state and overall clinical state on a 1 ( normal , not at all ill ) to 7 - point ( extremely ill ) scale .
Study 7 : In an 8 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 571 ) involving three - fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 0 . 75 mg / day , 1 . 5 mg / day , and 3 mg / day ) , VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg was superior to placebo at end of Week 6 on the MADRS total score and the CGI - S .
Study 8 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 474 ) involving two - fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day and 3 mg / day ) , VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg and 3 mg were superior to placebo at end of Week 6 on the MADRS total score .
Study 9 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 478 ) involving two - fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day and 3 mg / day ) , VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg was superior to placebo at end of Week 6 on the MADRS total score and the CGI - S .
Examination of population subgroups based on age ( there were few patients over 55 ) , sex , and race did not suggest any clear evidence of differential responsiveness .
Table 16 .
Primary Analysis Results from Bipolar Depression Trials Study Number Treatment Group ( # ITT patients ) Primary Efficacy Endpoint : MADRS Total Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 7 VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day ) * ( n = 145 ) VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) ( n = 145 ) Placebo ( n = 141 ) 30 . 3 ( 4 . 4 ) 30 . 6 ( 4 . 7 ) 30 . 4 ( 4 . 6 ) - 15 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) - 13 . 7 ( 0 . 9 ) - 11 . 1 ( 0 . 9 ) - 4 . 0 ( - 6 . 3 , - 1 . 6 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 4 . 9 , - 0 . 1 ) Study 8 VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day ) * ( n = 154 ) 30 . 7 ( 4 . 3 ) - 15 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 4 . 6 , - 0 . 4 ) VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) * ( n = 164 ) 31 . 0 ( 4 . 9 ) - 15 . 6 ( 0 . 8 ) - 3 . 0 ( - 5 . 1 , - 0 . 9 ) Placebo ( n = 156 ) 30 . 2 ( 4 . 4 ) - 12 . 6 ( 0 . 8 ) Study 9 VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day ) * ( n = 162 ) 31 . 5 ( 4 . 3 ) - 14 . 8 ( 0 . 8 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 4 . 6 , - 0 . 4 ) VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) ( n = 153 ) 31 . 5 ( 4 . 8 ) - 14 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) - 1 . 8 ( - 3 . 9 , 0 . 4 ) Placebo ( n = 163 ) 31 . 4 ( 4 . 5 ) - 12 . 4 ( 0 . 8 ) ITT : intent - to - treat ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval aDifference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline * Doses that are statistically significantly superior to placebo Figure 5 .
LS Mean * Change from Baseline in MADRS Total Score by Visits ( Study 8 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] * LS Mean : least - squares mean 14 . 4 Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder The efficacy of VRAYLAR as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) was evaluated in 2 trials in adult patients ( mean age of 45 years , range 18 to 65 years ; 72 % were female ; and 85 % were Caucasian ) who met DSM - IV - TR or DSM - 5 criteria for MDD , with or without symptoms of anxiety , who had an inadequate response to 1 to 3 courses of prior antidepressant ( ADT ) therapy .
Inadequate response during antidepressant treatment was defined as less than 50 % improvement to antidepressant treatment of adequate dose and adequate duration .
In each study , the primary endpoint was change from baseline to Week 6 ( Study 10 ) or Week 8 ( Study 11 ) in the Montgomery - Asberg Depression Rating Scale ( MADRS ) total score , a 10 - item clinician - rated scale used to assess the degree of depressive symptomatology , with 0 representing no symptoms and 60 representing worst symptoms .
Study 10 : In a 6 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 751 ) involving two fixed doses of VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg per day or 3 mg per day ) + ADT , VRAYLAR 1 . 5 mg + ADT was superior to placebo + ADT at end of Week 6 on the MADRS total score .
The treatment effect in the VRAYLAR 3 mg per day + ADT group ( vs . placebo + ADT ) was not statistically significant .
Study 11 : An 8 - week , placebo - controlled trial ( N = 808 ) involved flexible doses of VRAYLAR 1 to 2 mg per day + ADT or 2 to 4 . 5 mg per day + ADT .
VRAYLAR 2 to 4 . 5 mg ( mean dose was 2 . 6 mg ) + ADT was superior to placebo + ADT at end of Week 8 on the MADRS total score .
The treatment effect in the VRAYLAR 1 to 2 mg per day + ADT group ( vs . placebo + ADT ) was not statistically significant .
Results from the primary efficacy parameters for both trials ( Studies 10 and 11 ) are shown below in Table 17 .
Figure 6 below shows the time course of response based on the primary efficacy measure ( MADRS total score ) in Study 10 .
Table 17 : Primary Analysis Results from Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder Trials Study Number Treatment Group ( # ITT patients ) Primary Efficacy Endpoint : MADRS Total Score Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 10 VRAYLAR ( 1 . 5 mg / day ) + ADT * ( n = 250 ) VRAYLAR ( 3 mg / day ) + ADT ( n = 252 ) Placebo + ADT ( n = 249 ) 32 . 8 ( 5 . 0 ) 32 . 7 ( 4 . 9 ) 31 . 9 ( 5 . 7 ) - 14 . 1 ( 0 . 7 ) - 13 . 1 ( 0 . 7 ) - 11 . 5 ( 0 . 7 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 4 . 2 , - 0 . 9 ) - 1 . 5 ( - 3 . 2 , 0 . 1 ) Study 11 VRAYLAR ( 1 to 2 mg / day ) + ADT ( n = 273 ) 29 . 0 ( 4 . 3 ) - 13 . 4 ( 0 . 5 ) - 0 . 9 ( - 2 . 4 , 0 . 6 ) VRAYLAR ( 2 to 4 . 5 mg / day ) + ADT * ( n = 271 ) 29 . 3 ( 4 . 1 ) - 14 . 6 ( 0 . 6 ) - 2 . 2 ( - 3 . 7 , - 0 . 6 ) Placebo + ADT ( n = 264 ) 28 . 9 ( 4 . 3 ) - 12 . 5 ( 0 . 5 ) SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval * Dosages statistically significantly superior to placebo a Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline Examination of population subgroups based on age , sex , and race did not suggest any clear evidence of differential responsiveness .
Figure 6 .
LS Mean ‡ Change from Baseline to Week 6 in MADRS Total Score in Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder ( Study 10 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ‡ LS Mean : least - squares mean * Dose was not statistically significant .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied VRAYLAR ( cariprazine ) capsules are supplied as follows : Capsule Strength Imprint Codes Capsule Color Package Configuration NDC Code 1 . 5 mg FL 1 . 5 White cap and body Blister pack of 7 61874 - 115 - 17 Bottle of 30 61874 - 115 - 30 Bottle of 90 61874 - 115 - 90 Box of 20 ( Hospital Unit Dose ) 61874 - 115 - 20 3 mg FL 3 Green to blue - green cap and white body Bottle of 30 61874 - 130 - 30 Bottle of 90 61874 - 130 - 90 Box of 20 ( Hospital Unit Dose ) 61874 - 130 - 20 4 . 5 mg FL 4 . 5 Green to blue - green cap and body Bottle of 30 61874 - 145 - 30 Bottle of 90 61874 - 145 - 90 6 mg FL 6 Purple cap and white body Bottle of 30 61874 - 160 - 30 Bottle of 90 61874 - 160 - 90 ( 1 ) 1 . 5 mg , ( 6 ) 3 mg FL 1 . 5 , FL 3 Mixed Blister pack of 7 61874 - 170 - 08 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20ºC to 25 ° C ( 68ºF to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect 3 mg and 4 . 5 mg capsules from light to prevent potential color fading .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors Advise patients and caregivers to look for the emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors , especially early during treatment and when the dosage is adjusted up or down and instruct them to report such symptoms to their healthcare provider [ see Box Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Advise patients that VRAYLAR can be taken with or without food .
Counsel them on the importance of following dosage escalation instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) Counsel patients about a potentially fatal adverse reaction , Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) , that has been reported in association with administration of antipsychotic drugs .
Advise patients , family members , or caregivers to contact the healthcare provider or to report to the emergency room if they experience signs and symptoms of NMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Tardive Dyskinesia Counsel patients on the signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia and to contact their health care provider if these abnormal movements occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Late - Occurring Adverse Reactions Counsel patients that adverse reactions may not appear until several weeks after the initiation of VRAYLAR treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Metabolic Changes ( Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus , Dyslipidemia , and Weight Gain ) Educate patients about the risk of metabolic changes , how to recognize symptoms of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus , and the need for specific monitoring , including blood glucose , lipids , and weight [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Leukopenia / Neutropenia Advise patients with a pre - existing low WBC or a history of drug - induced leukopenia / neutropenia that they should have their CBC monitored while taking VRAYLAR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Counsel patients on the risk of orthostatic hypotension and syncope , especially early in treatment , and also at times of re - initiating treatment or increases in dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance Caution patients about performing activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle , until they are reasonably certain that VRAYLAR therapy does not affect them adversely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Heat Exposure and Dehydration Educate patients regarding appropriate care in avoiding overheating and dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Concomitant Medications Advise patients to notify their physicians if they are taking , or plan to take , any prescription or over - the - counter drugs since there is a potential for interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients that third trimester use of VRAYLAR may cause extrapyramidal and / or withdrawal symptoms in a neonate .
Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to VRAYLAR during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Licensed from Gedeon Richter Plc .
Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Limited Dublin , IE .
Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 VRAYLAR ® is a registered trademark of Forest Laboratories Holdings Ltd . , an Allergan affiliate .
© 2022 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
v5 . 1USPI115 MEDICATION GUIDE VRAYLAR ® ( VRAY - lar ) ( cariprazine ) capsules What is the most important information I should know about VRAYLAR ?
VRAYLAR may cause serious side effects , including : • Increased risk of death in elderly people with dementia related psychosis .
Medicines like VRAYLAR can raise the risk of death in elderly who have lost touch with reality ( psychosis ) due to confusion and memory loss ( dementia ) .
VRAYLAR is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis .
• Increased risk of suicidal thoughts and actions .
VRAYLAR and antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children and young adults especially within the first few months of treatment or when the dose is changed .
○ Depression and other mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
○ Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when VRAYLAR or the antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
○ Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings , or if you develop suicidal thoughts or actions .
○ Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood What is VRAYLAR ?
VRAYLAR is a prescription medicine used in adults : • to treat schizophrenia • for short - term ( acute ) treatment of manic or mixed episodes that happen with bipolar I disorder • to treat depressive episodes that happen with bipolar I disorder ( bipolar depression ) • along with antidepressant medicines to treat major depressive disorder ( MDD ) It is not known if VRAYLAR is safe and effective in children .
Do not take VRAYLAR if you are allergic to cariprazine .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in VRAYLAR .
Before taking VRAYLAR , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had heart problems or a stroke • have or have had low or high blood pressure • have or have had diabetes or high blood sugar , or a family history of diabetes or high blood sugar .
Your healthcare provider should check your blood sugar before you start and during treatment with VRAYLAR .
• have or have had high levels of total cholesterol , LDL cholesterol , or triglycerides or low levels of HDL cholesterol .
• have or had seizures ( convulsions ) • have or have had kidney or liver problems • have or had a low white blood cell count • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
VRAYLAR may harm your unborn baby .
Taking VRAYLAR during your third trimester of pregnancy may cause your baby to have abnormal muscle movements or withdrawal symptoms after birth .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the risk to your unborn baby if you take VRAYLAR during pregnancy .
○ Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant or think you are pregnant during treatment with VRAYLAR .
○ If you become pregnant during treatment with VRAYLAR , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics .
You can register by calling 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or go to http : / / womensmentalhealth . org / clinical - and - research - programs / pregnancyregistry / .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VRAYLAR passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with VRAYLAR .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
VRAYLAR and other medicines may affect each other causing possible serious side effects .
VRAYLAR may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how VRAYLAR works .
Your healthcare provider can tell you if it is safe to take VRAYLAR with your other medicines .
Do not start or stop any medicines while taking VRAYLAR without talking to your healthcare provider first .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take VRAYLAR ?
• Take VRAYLAR exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not change the dose or stop taking VRAYLAR without first talking to your healthcare provider .
• Take VRAYLAR 1 time each day with or without food .
• If you take too much VRAYLAR , call your healthcare provider or Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room , right away .
What should I avoid while taking VRAYLAR ?
• Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how VRAYLAR affects you .
VRAYLAR may make you drowsy .
• Do not become too hot or dehydrated during treatment with VRAYLAR .
○ Do not exercise too much .
○ In hot weather , stay inside in a cool place if possible .
○ Stay out of the sun .
○ Do not wear too much clothing or heavy clothing .
○ Drink plenty of water .
What are the possible side effects of VRAYLAR ?
VRAYLAR may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about VRAYLAR ? ”
• Stroke ( cerebrovascular problems ) in elderly people with dementia - related psychosis that can lead to death .
• Neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) is a serious condition that can lead to death .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have some or all of the following signs and symptoms of NMS : ○ high fever ○ stiff muscles ○ confusion ○ increased sweating ○ changes in your breathing , heart rate , and blood pressure • Uncontrolled body movements ( tardive dyskinesia ) .
VRAYLAR may cause movements that you cannot control in your face , tongue , or other body parts .
Tardive dyskinesia may not go away , even if you stop taking VRAYLAR .
Tardive dyskinesia may also start after you stop taking VRAYLAR .
• Late occurringside effects .
VRAYLAR stays in your body for a long time .
Some side effects may not happen right away and can start a few weeks after you start taking VRAYLAR , or if your dose of VRAYLAR increases .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you for side effects for several weeks after you start and after any increase in your dose of VRAYLAR .
• Problems with your metabolism such as : ○ high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and diabetes .
Increases in blood sugar can happen in some people who take VRAYLAR .
Extremely high blood sugar can lead to coma or death .
Your healthcare provider should check your blood sugar before you start , or soon after you start VRAYLAR , and then regularly during long - term treatment with VRAYLAR .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any of these symptoms of high blood sugar during treatment with VRAYLAR : • feel very thirsty • need to urinate more than usual • feel very hungry • feel weak or tired • feel sick to your stomach • feel confused , or your breath smells fruity • increased fat levels ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) in your blood .
Your healthcare provider should check the fat levels in your blood before you start , or soon after you start VRAYLAR , and then periodically during treatment with VRAYLAR .
• weight gain .
You and your healthcare provider should check your weight before you start and often during treatment with VRAYLAR .
• Low white blood cell count .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests during the first few months of treatment with VRAYLAR .
• Decreased blood pressure ( orthostatic hypotension ) .
You may feel lightheaded or faint when you rise too quickly from a sitting or lying position .
• Falls .
VRAYLAR may make you sleepy or dizzy , may cause a decrease in your blood pressure when changing position ( orthostatic hypotension ) , and can slow your thinking and motor skills which may lead to falls that can cause fractures or other injuries .
• Seizures ( convulsions ) .
• Sleepiness , drowsiness , feeling tired , difficulty thinking and doing normal activities .
See “ What should I avoid while taking VRAYLAR ? ”
• Problems controlling your body temperature so that you feel too warm .
See “ What should I avoid while taking VRAYLAR ? ”
• Difficulty swallowing that can cause food or liquid to get into your lungs .
The most common side effects of VRAYLAR include : difficulty moving or slow movements , tremors , uncontrolled body movements , restlessness and feeling like you need to move around , sleepiness , nausea , vomiting , indigestion , constipation , feeling tired , trouble sleeping , increased appetite , and dizziness .
These are not all the possible side effects of VRAYLAR .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VRAYLAR ?
• Store VRAYLAR at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep VRAYLAR and allmedicines out of the reach of children .
General information aboutthe safe and effective use of VRAYLAR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use VRAYLAR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VRAYLAR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about VRAYLAR that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in VRAYLAR ?
Active ingredient : cariprazine Inactive ingredients : gelatin , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch , shellac , and titanium dioxide .
Colorants include : black iron oxide , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 3 , FD & C Red 40 , or yellow iron oxide .
Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Limited , Dublin , IE .
Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2022 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . VRAYLAR . com or call 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 12 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 115 - 17 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) Capsules 1 . 5 mg per capsule 7 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 115 - 30 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) capsules 1 . 5 mg per capsule 30 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 115 - 20 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) Capsules 1 . 5 mg per capsule 20 capsules ( 2x10 - count blister cards ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 170 - 08 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) capsules One 1 . 5 mg capsule and Six 3 mg capsules 7 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 130 - 30 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) Capsules 3 mg per capsule 30 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 130 - 20 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) capsules 3 mg per capsule ATTENTION PRESCRIBER : PLEASE DISPENSE MEDICATIN GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT Each capsule contains cariprazine HCI equivalent to 3 mg cariprazine base .
20 capsules ( 2x10 - count blister cards ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 145 - 30 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) Capsules 4 . 5 mg per capsule 30 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61874 - 160 - 30 Vraylar ( cariprazine ) Capsules 6 mg per capsule 30 Capsules Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
