1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a quinolone antimicrobial indicated for the treatment of acute otitis externa due to susceptible isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Staphylococcus aureus .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a quinolone antimicrobial indicated for the treatment of acute otitis externa due to susceptible isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Staphylococcus aureus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The contents of one single use container ( deliverable volume : 0 . 25 mL ) should be instilled into the affected ear twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) for 7 days .
Wash hands before use .
The solution should be warmed , by holding the container in the hands for at least 1 minute , to minimize the dizziness that may result from the instillation of a cold solution into the ear canal .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward and then the solution should be instilled .
This position should be maintained for at least 1 minute to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
Contents of one single use container should be instilled into the affected ear twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) for 7 days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a sterile , preservative - free , otic solution of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride equivalent to 0 . 2 % ciprofloxacin ( 0 . 5 mg in 0 . 25 mL ) in each single use container .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a sterile , preservative - free otic solution of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride equivalent to 0 . 2 % ciprofloxacin ( 0 . 5 mg in 0 . 25 mL ) in each single use container .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin .
History of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity : discontinue at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 2 ) • Use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Otic Use Only Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only .
It should not be used for injection , for inhalation or for topical ophthalmic use .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
5 . 3 Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use As with other anti - infectives , use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including yeast and fungi .
If super - infection occurs , discontinue use and institute alternative therapy .
5 . 4 Lack of Clinical Response If the infection is not improved after one week of therapy , cultures may help guide further treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse drug reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In a randomized , active - controlled clinical trial , approximately 300 patients with clinical signs and symptoms of otitis externa were treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were application site pain , ear pruritus , fungal ear superinfection , and headache , each reported in approximately 2 - 3 % of patients .
The most common adverse reactions reported in 2 - 3 % of patients treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution were application site pain , ear pruritus , fungal ear superinfection , and headache .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Xspire Pharma at 1 - 888 - 252 - 3901 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral doses of up to 100 mg / kg and intravenous ( IV ) doses up to 30 mg / kg and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus as a result of ciprofloxacin .
In rabbits , ciprofloxacin ( 30 and 100 mg / kg orally ) produced gastrointestinal disturbances resulting in maternal weight loss and an increased incidence of abortion , but no teratogenicity was observed at either dose .
After intravenous administration of doses up to 20 mg / kg , no maternal toxicity was produced in the rabbit , and no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution .
No adequate and well - controlled studies have been performed in pregnant women .
Caution should be exercised when Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is used by a pregnant woman .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ciprofloxacin is excreted in human milk with systemic use .
It is not known whether ciprofloxacin is excreted in human milk following otic use .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution in infants below one year of age have not been established .
The efficacy of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution in treating otitis externa in pediatric patients one year or older has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials ( see Section 14 Clinical Studies ) .
There is no evidence that the otic administration of quinolones has any effect on weight bearing joints , even though systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to cause arthropathy in immature animals .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution 0 . 2 % contains the synthetic antimicrobial agent ciprofloxacin hydrochloride .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a sterile , preservative - free solution for otic use .
Each single use container of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution delivers 0 . 25 mL of solution equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of ciprofloxacin .
The inactive ingredients are povidone , glycerin , and water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or lactic acid may be added to adjust pH . Ciprofloxacin , a fluroquinolone is available as the monohydrochloride , monohydrate salt of 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 7 - ( 1 - piperazinyl ) - 3 - quinolinecarboxylic acid .
Its molecular formula is C17H18FN3O3 • HCl • H2O , and molecular weight is 385 . 82 .
The chemical structure of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antimicrobial ( see 12 . 4 Clinical Pharmacology , Microbiology ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin were not measured following administration of 0 . 25 mL Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution ( total dose : 0 . 5 mg ciprofloxacin ) .
However , the maximum plasma concentration of ciprofloxacin is anticipated to be less than 5 ng / mL .
12 . 4 Microbiology The bactericidal action of ciprofloxacin results from interference with the enzyme DNA gyrase , which is needed for the synthesis of bacterial DNA .
Bacterial resistance to quinolones can develop through chromosomally - or plasmid - mediated mechanisms .
The mechanism of action of fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin , is different from that of macrolides .
Therefore , ciprofloxacin may be active against pathogens that are resistant to these antibiotics , and these antibiotics may be active against pathogens that are resistant to ciprofloxacin .
In vitro studies demonstrated cross - resistance between ciprofloxacin and some fluoroquinolones .
Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections of acute otitis externa as described in Section 1 Indications and Usage .
• Staphylococcus aureus • Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
13 NON - CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin .
After daily oral doses of 750 mg / kg ( mice ) and 250 mg / kg ( rats ) were administered for up to 2 years , there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species .
No long - term studies of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin , and the test results are listed below : • Salmonella / Microsome Test ( Negative ) • Escherichia coli DNA Repair Assay ( Negative ) • Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay ( Positive ) • Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test ( Negative ) • Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay ( Negative ) • Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay ( Negative ) • Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay ( Negative ) • Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay ( Positive ) .
Two of the 8 in vitro tests were positive , but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results : • Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay • Micronucleus Test ( Mice ) • Dominant Lethal Test ( Mice ) .
Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of impairment .
This would be over 100 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area , assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution twice per day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , multi - center , evaluator - blinded study of patients with acute otitis externa , patients were treated with either Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution twice daily or neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone otic solution ( PNH ) three times daily for 7 days .
In the per protocol population , clinical cure was achieved at the end of a 7 - day treatment in 70 % ( 173 / 247 ) for the Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution treated group versus 60 % ( 147 / 243 ) for the control treated group .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is a clear , colorless , sterile , preservative - free solution .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is supplied as a 0 . 2 % otic solution in a low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) single use container .
Each single use container delivers 0 . 25 mL of solution equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of ciprofloxacin ; 14 single use containers are packaged in a foil overwrap pouch in a carton ( NDC 42195 - 550 - 14 ) .
Store at 15ºC to 25ºC ( 59ºF to 77ºF ) .
Discard used containers .
Store unused containers in pouch to protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Directions for Use Patients should be advised that Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only .
It is not for ophthalmic or inhalation use .
It is not for injection .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution should be given 2 times each day ( about 12 hours apart ) in each infected ear .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution should be used for as long as it is prescribed , even if the symptoms improve .
The patient should be advised to follow these directions while on Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution : • Wash their hands before use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Warm the container in their hands for at least one minute prior to use to minimize dizziness that may result from the instillation of a cold solution into the ear canal .
Twist off and discard top of container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Lie with the affected ear upward and then instill the contents of one container into the ear .
Maintain this position for at least one minute to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
• Discard used container .
• Store unused containers in pouch to protect from light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 . 2 Hypersensitivity Patients should be advised to immediately discontinue Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity [ see Section 5 . 1 Warnings and Precautions ] .
Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is : Distributed by : Xspire Pharma P . O . Box 1724 Madison , MS 39130 .
Manufactured by : The Ritedose Corporation Columbia , SC 29203 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 25 mL Sterile Preservative - Free NDC 42195 - 0550 - 14 Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution , 0 . 2 % Containers not for individual sale .
Discard used containers .
Store at 15ºC to 25ºC ( 59ºF to 77ºF ) .
Store unused containers in pouch to protect from light .
Contents : 14 single use containers 0 . 25 ml each ( deliverable volume ) Rx Only Manufactured by : The Ritedose Corporation Columbia , SC 29203 USA ( Xspire Pharma P . O . Box 1724 Madison , MS 39130 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
