Description Saluron ® ( hydroflumethiazide ) is a potent oral diuretic - antihypertensive agent of low toxicity .
Each tablet contains 50 mg of hydroflumethiazide .
Saluron ® is 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - Benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide , 3 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - ( trifluoromethyl ) - , 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Hydroflumethiazide is very slightly soluble in water , soluble in methanol and freely soluble in acetone .
Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose , magnesium stearate , colloidal silicon dioxide , and sodium starch glycolate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Hydroflumethiazide is incompletely but fairly rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
It appears to have a biphasic biological half - life with an estimated alpha - phase of about 2 hours and an estimated beta - phase of about 17 hours ; it has a metabolite with a longer half - life , which is extensively bound to the red blood cells .
Hydroflumethiazide is excreted in the urine ; its metabolite has also been detected in the urine .
The mechanism of action results in an interference with the renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage , all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic potency .
The mechanism whereby thiazides function in the control of hypertension is unknown .
Indications and Usage Saluron ® is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy .
Saluron ® has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction , such as nephrotic syndrome , acute glomerulonephritis , and chronic renal failure .
Saluron ® is indicated in the management of hypertension , either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension .
Usage In Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary risk .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy ( however , see Warnings below ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose .
Use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
Contraindications Saluron ® is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to this or other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Warnings Saluron ® should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazide may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Thiazides may be additive or potentiative of the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs .
Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Precautions General All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance , namely , hyponatremia .
hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Medication such as digitalis may also influence serum electrolytes .
Warning signs , irrespective of cause , are : dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop with thiazides as with any other potent diuretic , especially with brisk diuresis .
when severe cirrhosis is present , or during concomitant use of corticosteroids , including ACTH .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Digitalis therapy may exaggerate the metabolic effects of hypokalemia , especially with respect to myocardial activity .
Any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment , except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather .
Appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifested during thiazide administration .
Thiazide drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine .
This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , as indicated by rising nonprotein nitrogen or blood urea nitrogen , a careful reappraisal of therapy is necessary with consideration given to withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics , because they reduce its renal clearance and increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Read circulars for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy with Saluron ® .
Information for Patients This medicine may cause a loss of potassium from your body .
To help prevent this , your doctor may want you to : • take another medicine or • eat or drink foods having high potassium content ( such as orange or other citrus fruit juices ) , or • take a potassium supplement It is very important to follow these directions .
Also , it is important not to change your diet on your own .
This is more important if you are already on a special diet ( as for diabetes ) , or if you are taking a potassium supplement or a medicine to reduce potassium loss .
Extra potassium may not be necessary and , in some cases , could be harmful .
Check with your doctor if you become sick and have severe or continuing vomiting or diarrhea .
These problems may cause you to lose additional water and potassium .
Caution : Diabetics - Thiazide diuretics may raise blood sugar levels .
While you are using this medicine , be especially careful in testing for sugar in your urine .
If you have any questions about this , check with your doctor .
A few people who take this medicine may become more sensitive to sunlight than they are normally .
When you begin to take this medicine , avoid too much sun or use of a sunlamp until you see how you react , especially if you tend to burn easily .
If you have a severe reaction , check with your doctor .
For patients taking this medicine for high blood pressure : • Do not take other medicines unless they have been discussed with your doctor .
This especially includes over - the - counter ( nonprescription ) medicines for appetite control , asthma , colds , cough , hay fever , or sinus .
Laboratory Tests Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Drug Interactions Anticoagulants ( oral ) : effects may be decreased when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics ; dosage adjustments may be necessary .
Antigout medications : thiazide diuretics may raise the level of blood uric acid ; dosage adjustment of antigout medications may be necessary to control hyperuricemia and gout .
Other antihypertensive medications , especially diazoxide ; pre - anesthetic and anesthetic agents used in surgery ; skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing , used in surgery : effects may be potentiated when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics ; dosage adjustments may be necessary .
Amphotericin B or Corticosteroids , including Corticotropin ( ACTH ) : concurrent use with thiazide diuretics may intensify electrolyte imbalance , particularly hypokalemia .
Cardiac glycosides : concurrent use with thiazide diuretics may enhance the possibility of digitalis toxicity associated with hypokalemia .
Colestipol : may inhibit gastrointestinal absorption of the thiazide diuretics ; administration 1 hour before or 4 hours after colestipol is recommended .
Hypoglycemics : thiazide diuretics may raise blood glucose levels .
For adult - onset diabetics , dosage adjustment of hypoglycemic medications may be necessary during and after thiazide diuretic therapy ; insulin requirements may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Lithium salts : concurrent use with thiazide diuretics is not recommended , as they may provoke lithium toxicity because of reduced renal clearance .
Methenamine : effectiveness may be decreased when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics , because of alkalinization of the urine .
Diagnostic Interference With expected physiologic effects .
Blood and urine glucose levels : usually only in patients with a predisposition to glucose intolerance .
Serum bilirubin levels : displacement from albumin binding .
Serum calcium levels : thiazide diuretics should be discontinued before parathyroid function tests are carried out .
Serum uric acid levels : may be increased .
Serum magnesium , potassium , and sodium levels : may be decreased , serum magnesium levels may increase in uremic patients .
Serum protein - bound iodine ( PBI ) levels : may be decreased .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D . See " WARNINGS " Section .
Teratogenic Effects Saluron ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
The hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in adults .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in adults .
Nursing Mothers Thiazides appear in breast milk .
If use of the drug is deemed essential , the patient may consider stopping nursing .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Gastrointestinal system reactions : anorexia , gastric irritation , nausea , vomiting , cramping , diarrhea , constipation , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , pancreatitis .
Central nervous system reactions : dizziness , vertigo , parathesias , headache , xanthopsia .
Hematologic reactions : leukopenia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , aplastic anemia .
Dermatologic - Hypersensitivity reactions : purpura , photosensitivity , rash , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis ) ( cutaneous vasculitis ) .
Cardiovascular reaction : orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics .
Other : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia , muscle spasm , weakness , restlessness .
Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe , thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn .
Overdosage Signs and Symptoms Diuresis , lethargy progressing to coma , with minimal cardiorespiratory depression and with or without significant serum electrolyte changes or dehydration ; GI irritation ; hypermotility ; transient elevation of BUN level .
Treatment Empty stomach by gastric lavage , taking care to avoid aspiration .
Monitor serum electrolyte levels and renal function , and institute supportive measures , as required to maintain hydration , electrolyte balance , respiration , and cardiovascular and renal function .
Treat GI effects symptomatically .
Dosage and Administration In the treatment of edema , the usual initial dose is 50 to 200 mg daily , in 1 or 2 divided doses , reduced to a dose of 25 to 50 mg on alternate days or intermittently .
In the treatment of hypertension , the usual dose is 25 to 50 mg daily in 1 or 2 divided doses , either alone , or in conjunction with other antihypertensive agents .
A suggested initial dose for children is 1 mg per kg of body weight daily , reduced for maintenance .
Therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
This therapy should be titrated to gain maximal therapeutic response , as well as the minimal dose possible to maintain that therapeutic response .
How Supplied Saluron ® Tablets , scored , 50 mg in bottles of 100 .
NDC 54092 - 055 - 01 Store from 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
CAUTION : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
