Givenchy TEINT COUTURE Long Wearing Fluid Foundation with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 20 ELEGANT SAND Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 2 . 92 % Purpose Sunscreen Use ■ Helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
■ Reapply at least every 2 hours .
■ Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ■ Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Other information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Methyl Trimethicone , Dimethicone , Alcohol , PEG - 9 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Isododecane , Butylene Glycol , Silica , Acrylates / Dimethicone Copolymer , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Phenoxyethanol , Cetyl Dimethicone , Phenyl Trimethicone , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Aluminum Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , Sodium Myristoyl Glutamate , VP / VA Copolymer , Propylene Carbonate , Fragrance , Saccharide Isomerate , Sodium Chloride , Butylphenyl Methylpropional , BHT , Smithsonite Extract , Geraniol , Citric Acid , Sodium Citrate .
May Contain : Titanium Dioxide , Iron Oxides .
TEINT COUTURE Long - wearing Fluid Foundation Radiance & Comfort Made - to - measure Coverage Broad Spectrum SPF 20 The perfect foundation , stylish and imperceptible from morning to evening .
The centerpiece in any " makeup wardrobe " , it combines impeccable hold and absolute comfort .
Timeless pieces never go out of fashion .
They adapt to any occasion , are worn all day long and follow us through the seasons .
GIVENCHY has created TEINT COUTURE , the new sophisticated and immaculate foundation essential : a silky lightweight texture that stays true for up to 15 hours , offering exquisite comfort and tailor - made coverage .
The perfect foundation for a subtly even complexion , enhanced with a fresh , natural glow , which remains flawless until the evening .
Pure fidelity The Givenchy laboratories have implemented an original strategy of three biophysical principles to guarantee exceptional hold and well - being for the skin : - adhesion , for very high - fidelity hold : the formula and pigments cling durably and uniformly to the skin while following its movements , thanks to a light and supple magnetic polymer .
The texture and radiance remain lastingly true and even .
- attraction , for long - lasting hydration : hydro - magnets help to capture and maintain water molecules at the heart of the skin .
The skin retains its fresh , plump appearance ; the complexion is luminous all day long .
- balance , for continual protection : a zinc derivative helps to protect the skin against external stress * .
The skin is rebalanced for optimal functioning .
A deliciously airy - light fluid for a naturally even and glowing complexion Like an haute couture dress , its light and supple texture adjusts to the skin and forms a satiny veil that gently blurs blemishes and fine lines .
To perfect the smoothing effect , soft - focus microspheres reflect light in every direction and refine the skin texture even further .
All day long , the complexion is radiant and naturally even with the lightest of touches , and the skin perfectly comfortable and protected .
Self - assessment test carried out on 32 women after 4 weeks ' daily use : Evanescent texture : 91 % Long hold for up to 15 hours : 84 % Perfectly even complexion : 91 % Lasting absolute comfort : 88 % Does not emphasize wrinkles and fine lines : 97 % Directions for use : apply with the fingertips working outward from the center of the face .
For tailor - made coverage , the fluid ' s extremely fine texture allows one or two layers to be added without any excess or heaviness .
TEINT COUTURE is also available in a compact ** version with its rosy illuminator .
* In vitro test ** Depending on the market 3 ELEGANT SAND GIVENCHY TEINT Couture LONG - WEARING FLUID FOUNDATION with Sunscreen Illuminating and Comfortable Broad Spectrum SPF 20 0 . 8 FL . OZ ( 25 ML ) Made in France LMVH Fragrance Brands PARFUMS GIVENCHY 92300 LEVALLOIS - PARIS - FRANCE In USA : 19 East 57 th Street New York , NY 10022 www . givenchy . com Givenchy TEINT COUTURE Long Wearing Fluid Foundation with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 20 ELEGANT SAND 25 ml ( 60905 - 0022 - 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
