active ingredient Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 yeard of age - do not use • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , zinc chloride , sodium benzoate , sucralose , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distribted by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Ultraclean With Everfresh Technology - Artic Mint .
Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY DEMOULAS SUPER MARKETS , INC .
875 EAST STREET TWEKSBURY , MA 01876 Principal Display Panel Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection MARKET BASKET MORE FOR YOUR DOLLAR Compare to Listerine Ultraclean with Evervesh Technology Artic Mint Tartar Control Plus ANTISEPTIC MOUTH RINSE Iceberg Mint Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Long lasting clean feel Fresh breath with mouth - cooling sensation Control tartar that can discolor teeth Kills germs that cause bad breath , Plaque & the gum disease gingivitis 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
