Rx Only P5081 - 7 02 / 09 DESCRIPTION Metoprolol succinate is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent , for oral administration , available as extended - release tablets .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets have been formulated to provide a controlled and predictable release of metoprolol for once daily oral administration .
The tablets comprise a multiple unit system containing metoprolol succinate in a multitude of controlled - release pellets .
Each pellet acts as a separate drug delivery unit and is designed to deliver metoprolol continuously over the dosage interval .
The tablets contain 95 and 190 mg of metoprolol succinate equivalent to 100 and 200 mg of metoprolol tartrate , USP , respectively .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) 1 - ( isopropylamino ) - 3 - [ p - ( 2 - methoxyethyl ) phenoxy ] - 2 - propanol succinate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoprolol succinate is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 652 . 8 .
It is freely soluble in water ; soluble in methanol ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; slightly soluble in dichloromethane and 2 - propanol ; practically insoluble in ethyl - acetate , acetone , diethylether and heptane .
Inactive ingredients : calcium stearate , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , glyceryl behenate , hydrogenated vegetable oil , hypromellose , maltodextrin , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium stearyl fumarate , titanium dioxide , triacetin , triethyl citrate , vinyl acetate copolymer .
Does not comply with the dissolution test of the USP monograph for metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY General Metoprolol is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
This preferential effect is not absolute , however , and at higher plasma concentrations , metoprolol also inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Metoprolol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , and membrane - stabilizing activity is detectable only at plasma concentrations much greater than required for beta - blockade .
Animal and human experiments indicate that metoprolol slows the sinus rate and decreases AV nodal conduction .
Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed the beta - blocking activity of metoprolol in man , as shown by ( 1 ) reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest and upon exercise , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic blood pressure upon exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
The relative beta1 - selectivity of metoprolol has been confirmed by the following : ( 1 ) In normal subjects , metoprolol is unable to reverse the beta2 - mediated vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
This contrasts with the effect of nonselective beta - blockers , which completely reverse the vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
( 2 ) In asthmatic patients , metoprolol reduces FEV1 and FVC significantly less than a nonselective beta - blocker , propranolol , at equivalent beta1 - receptor blocking doses .
In five controlled studies in normal healthy subjects , the same daily doses of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets and immediate - release metoprolol were compared in terms of the extent and duration of beta 1 - blockade produced .
Both formulations were given in a dose range equivalent to 100 to 400 mg of immediate release metoprolol per day .
In these studies , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets were administered once a day and immediate - release metoprolol was administered once to four times a day .
A sixth controlled study compared the beta1 - blocking effects of a 50 mg daily dose of the two formulations .
In each study , beta1 - blockade was expressed as the percent change from baseline in exercise heart rate following standardized submaximal exercise tolerance tests at steady state .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets administered once a day , and immediate - release metoprolol administered once to four times a day , provided comparable total beta1 - blockade over 24 hours ( area under the beta1 - blockade versus time curve ) in the dose range 100 to 400 mg .
At a dosage of 50 mg once daily , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets produced significantly higher total beta1 - blockade over 24 hours than immediate - release metoprolol .
For metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , the percent reduction in exercise heart rate was relatively stable throughout the entire dosage interval and the level of beta1 - blockade increased with increasing doses from 50 to 300 mg daily .
The effects at peak / trough ( i . e . , at 24 hours post - dosing ) were 14 / 9 , 16 / 10 , 24 / 14 , 27 / 22 and 27 / 20 % reduction in exercise heart rate for doses of 50 , 100 , 200 , 300 and 400 mg metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets once a day , respectively .
In contrast to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , immediate - release metoprolol given at a dose of 50 to 100 mg once a day produced a significantly larger peak effect on exercise tachycardia , but the effect was not evident at 24 hours .
To match the peak to trough ratio obtained with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets over the dosing range of 200 to 400 mg , a t . i . d . to q . i . d . divided dosing regimen was required for immediate - release metoprolol .
A controlled crossover study in heart failure patients compared the plasma concentrations and beta1 - blocking effects of 50 mg immediate - release metoprolol administered t . i . d . , 100 mg and 200 mg metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets once daily .
A 50 mg dose of immediate - release metoprolol t . i . d . produced a peak plasma level of metoprolol similar to the peak level observed with 200 mg of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
A 200 mg dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets produced a larger effect on suppression of exercise - induced and Holter - monitored heart rate over 24 hours compared to 50 mg t . i . d . of immediate - release metoprolol .
The relationship between plasma metoprolol levels and reduction in exercise heart rate is independent of the pharmaceutical formulation .
Using an Emax model , the maximum effect is a 30 % reduction in exercise heart rate , which is attributed to beta1 - blockade .
Beta1 - blocking effects in the range of 30 to 80 % of the maximal effect ( approximately 8 to 23 % reduction in exercise heart rate ) corresponds to metoprolol plasma concentrations from 30 to 540 nmol / L .
The relative beta1 - selectivity of metoprolol diminishes and blockade of beta2 - adrenoceptors increases at plasma concentrations above 300 nmol / L .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in the treatment of angina , hypertension , and heart failure there are situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
In patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
In the presence of AV block , beta - blockade may prevent the necessary facilitating effect of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
In other studies , treatment with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets produced an improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets were also shown to delay the increase in left ventricular end - systolic and end - diastolic volumes after 6 months of treatment .
Pharmacokinetics Adults In man , absorption of metoprolol is rapid and complete .
Plasma levels following oral administration of conventional metoprolol tablets , however , approximate 50 % of levels following intravenous administration , indicating about 50 % first - pass metabolism .
Metoprolol crosses the blood - brain barrier and has been reported in the CSF in a concentration 78 % of the simultaneous plasma concentration .
Plasma levels achieved are highly variable after oral administration .
Only a small fraction of the drug ( about 12 % ) is bound to human serum albumin .
Metoprolol is a racemic mixture of R - and S - enantiomers , and is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 .
When administered orally , it exhibits stereoselective metabolism that is dependent on oxidation phenotype .
Elimination is mainly by biotransformation in the liver , and the plasma half - life ranges from approximately 3 to 7 hours .
Less than 5 % of an oral dose of metoprolol is recovered unchanged in the urine ; the rest is excreted by the kidneys as metabolites that appear to have no beta - blocking activity .
Following intravenous administration of metoprolol , the urinary recovery of unchanged drug is approximately 10 % .
The systemic availability and half - life of metoprolol in patients with renal failure do not differ to a clinically significant degree from those in normal subjects .
Consequently , no reduction in dosage is usually needed in patients with chronic renal failure .
Metoprolol is metabolized predominantly by CYP2D6 , an enzyme that is absent in about 8 % of Caucasians ( poor metabolizers ) and about 2 % of most other populations .
CYP2D6 can be inhibited by a number of drugs .
Concomitant use of inhibiting drugs in poor metabolizers will increase blood levels of metoprolol several - fold , decreasing metoprolol ' s cardioselectivity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
In comparison to conventional metoprolol , the plasma metoprolol levels following administration of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are characterized by lower peaks , longer time to peak and significantly lower peak to trough variation .
The peak plasma levels following once - daily administration of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets average one - fourth to one - half the peak plasma levels obtained following a corresponding dose of conventional metoprolol , administered once daily or in divided doses .
At steady state the average bioavailability of metoprolol following administration of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , across the dosage range of 50 to 400 mg once daily , was 77 % relative to the corresponding single or divided doses of conventional metoprolol .
Nevertheless , over the 24 - hour dosing interval , beta1 - blockade is comparable and dose - related ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The bioavailability of metoprolol shows a dose - related , although not directly proportional , increase with dose and is not significantly affected by food following metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets administration .
Pediatrics Due to AstraZeneca ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this generic drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
Pharmacokinetic information for pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca ' s metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Hypertension The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents has not been elucidated .
However , several possible mechanisms have been proposed : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output ; ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery ; and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
Clinical Trials In a double - blind study , 1092 patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension were randomized to once daily metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets ( 25 , 100 , or 400 mg ) , felodipine extended - release tablets , the combination , or placebo .
After 9 weeks , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets alone decreased sitting blood pressure by 6 - 8 / 4 - 7 mmHg ( placebo - corrected change from baseline ) at 24 hours post - dose .
The combination of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets with felodipine extended - release tablets has greater effects on blood pressure .
In controlled clinical studies , an immediate - release dosage form of metoprolol was an effective antihypertensive agent when used alone or as concomitant therapy with thiazide - type diuretics at dosages of 100 to 450 mg daily .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , in dosages of 100 to 400 mg once daily , produces similar beta1 - blockade as conventional metoprolol tablets administered two to four times daily .
In addition , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets administered at a dose of 50 mg once daily lowered blood pressure 24 hours post - dosing in placebo - controlled studies .
In controlled , comparative , clinical studies , immediate - release metoprolol appeared comparable as an antihypertensive agent to propranolol , methyldopa , and thiazide - type diuretics , and affected both supine and standing blood pressure .
Because of variable plasma levels attained with a given dose and lack of a consistent relationship of antihypertensive activity to drug plasma concentration , selection of proper dosage requires individual titration .
Angina Pectoris By blocking catecholamine - induced increases in heart rate , in velocity and extent of myocardial contraction , and in blood pressure , metoprolol reduces the oxygen requirements of the heart at any given level of effort , thus making it useful in the long - term management of angina pectoris .
Clinical Trials In controlled clinical trials , an immediate - release formulation of metoprolol has been shown to be an effective antianginal agent , reducing the number of angina attacks and increasing exercise tolerance .
The dosage used in these studies ranged from 100 to 400 mg daily .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , in dosages of 100 to 400 mg once daily , has been shown to possess beta - blockade similar to conventional metoprolol tablets administered two to four times daily .
Heart Failure The precise mechanism for the beneficial effects of beta - blockers in heart failure has not been elucidated .
Clinical Trials MERIT - HF was a double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets conducted in 14 countries including the U . S .
It randomized 3991 patients ( 1990 to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets ) with ejection fraction ≤ 0 . 40 and NYHA Class II - IV heart failure attributable to ischemia , hypertension , or cardiomyopathy .
The protocol excluded patients with contraindications to beta - blocker use , those expected to undergo heart surgery , and those within 28 days of myocardial infarction or unstable angina .
The primary endpoints of the trial were ( 1 ) all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization ( time to first event ) and ( 2 ) all - cause mortality .
Patients were stabilized on optimal concomitant therapy for heart failure , including diuretics , ACE inhibitors , cardiac glycosides , and nitrates .
At randomization , 41 % of patients were NYHA Class II , 55 % NYHA Class III ; 65 % of patients had heart failure attributed to ischemic heart disease ; 44 % had a history of hypertension ; 25 % had diabetes mellitus ; 48 % had a history of myocardial infarction .
Among patients in the trial , 90 % were on diuretics , 89 % were on ACE inhibitors , 64 % were on digitalis , 27 % were on a lipid - lowering agent , 37 % were on an oral anticoagulant , and the mean ejection fraction was 0 . 28 .
The mean duration of follow - up was one year .
At the end of the study , the mean daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets was 159 mg .
The trial was terminated early for a statistically significant reduction in all - cause mortality ( 34 % , nominal p = 0 . 00009 ) .
The risk of all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization was reduced by 19 % ( p = 0 . 00012 ) .
The trial also showed improvements in heart failure - related mortality and heart failure - related hospitalizations , and NYHA functional class .
The table below shows the principal results for the overall study population .
The figure below illustrates principal results for a wide variety of subgroup comparisons , including U . S . vs . non - U . S . populations ( the latter of which was not pre - specified ) .
The combined endpoints of all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization and of mortality plus heart failure hospitalization showed consistent effects in the overall study population and the subgroups , including women and the U . S . population .
However , in the U . S . subgroup ( n = 1071 ) and women ( n = 898 ) , overall mortality and cardiovascular mortality appeared less affected .
Analyses of female and U . S . patients were carried out because they each represented about 25 % of the overall population .
Nonetheless , subgroup analyses can be difficult to interpret and it is not known whether these represent true differences or chance effects .
Clinical Endpoints in the MERIT - HF Study † Time to first event ‡ Comparison of treatment groups examines the number of hospitalizations ( Wilcoxon test ) ; relative risk and risk reduction are not applicable .
Clinical Endpoint Number of Patients Relative Risk ( 95 % CI ) Risk Reduction with Metoprolol Succinate Extended - release tablets Nominal P - value Placebo n = 2001 Metoprolol Succinate Extended - release tablets n = 1990 All - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization † 767 641 0 . 81 ( 0 . 73 - 0 . 90 ) 19 % 0 . 00012 All - cause mortality 217 145 0 . 66 ( 0 . 53 - 0 . 81 ) 34 % 0 . 00009 All - cause mortality plus heart failure hospitalization † 439 311 0 . 69 ( 0 . 60 - 0 . 80 ) 31 % 0 . 0000008 Cardiovascular mortality 203 128 0 . 62 ( 0 . 50 - 0 . 78 ) 38 % 0 . 000022 Sudden death 132 79 0 . 59 ( 0 . 45 - 0 . 78 ) 41 % 0 . 0002 Death due to worsening heart failure 58 30 0 . 51 ( 0 . 33 - 0 . 79 ) 49 % 0 . 0023 Hospitalizations due to worsening heart failure ‡ 451 317 N / A N / A 0 . 0000076 Cardiovascular hospitalization ‡ 773 649 N / A N / A 0 . 00028 Results for Subgroups in MERIT - HF [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
Angina Pectoris Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are indicated in the long - term treatment of angina pectoris .
Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of stable , symptomatic ( NYHA Class II or III ) heart failure of ischemic , hypertensive , or cardiomyopathic origin .
It was studied in patients already receiving ACE inhibitors , diuretics , and , in the majority of cases , digitalis .
In this population , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets decreased the rate of mortality plus hospitalization , largely through a reduction in cardiovascular mortality and hospitalizations for heart failure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia , heart block greater than first degree , cardiogenic shock , decompensated cardiac failure , sick sinus syndrome ( unless a permanent pacemaker is in place ) , and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
WARNINGS Ischemic Heart Disease : Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents , exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred .
When discontinuing chronically administered metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets administration should be reinstated promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Bronchospastic Diseases : PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASES SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of its relative beta1 - selectivity , however , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , a beta2 - stimulating agent should be administered concomitantly , and the lowest possible dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be used ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pheochromocytoma : If metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are used in the setting of pheochromocytoma , it should be given in combination with an alpha blocker , and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated .
Administration of beta blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure due to the attenuation of beta - mediated vasodilatation in skeletal muscle .
Major Surgery : The necessity or desirability of withdrawing beta - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial ; the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , like other beta - blockers , is a competitive inhibitor of beta - receptor agonists , and its effects can be reversed by administration of such agents , e . g . , dobutamine or isoproterenol .
However , such patients may be subject to protracted severe hypotension .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heart beat has also been reported with beta - blockers .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be used with caution in diabetic patients if a beta - blocking agent is required .
Beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
Peripheral Vascular Disease : Beta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised in such individuals .
Calcium Channel Blockers : Because of significant inotropic and chronotropic effects in patients treated with beta - blockers and calcium channel blockers of the verapamil and diltiazem type , caution should be exercised in patients treated with these agents concomitantly .
PRECAUTIONS General Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function .
In patients with pheochromocytoma , an alpha - blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any beta - blocking agent ( see WARNINGS ) .
Worsening cardiac failure may occur during up - titration of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
If such symptoms occur , diuretics should be increased and the dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should not be advanced until clinical stability is restored ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
It may be necessary to lower the dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets or temporarily discontinue it .
Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised to take metoprolol succinate regularly and continuously , as directed , preferably with or immediately following meals .
If a dose should be missed , the patient should take only the next scheduled dose ( without doubling it ) .
Patients should not interrupt or discontinue metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets without consulting the physician .
Patients should be advised ( 1 ) to avoid operating automobiles and machinery or engaging in other tasks requiring alertness until the patient ' s response to therapy with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets has been determined ; ( 2 ) to contact the physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs ; ( 3 ) to inform the physician or dentist before any type of surgery that he or she is taking metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Heart failure patients should be advised to consult their physician if they experience signs or symptoms of worsening heart failure such as weight gain or increasing shortness of breath .
Laboratory Tests Clinical laboratory findings may include elevated levels of serum transaminase , alkaline phosphatase , and lactate dehydrogenase .
Drug Interactions Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Patients treated with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , and propafenone are likely to increase metoprolol concentration .
In healthy subjects with CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer phenotype , coadministration of quinidine 100 mg and immediate release metoprolol 200 mg tripled the concentration of S - metoprolol and doubled the metoprolol elimination half - life .
In four patients with cardiovascular disease , coadministration of propafenone 150 mg t . i . d . with immediate - release metoprolol 50 mg t . i . d . resulted in two - to five - fold increases in the steady - state concentration of metoprolol .
These increases in plasma concentration would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Beta - blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
If the two drugs are coadministered , the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine .
If replacing clonidine by beta - blocker therapy , the introduction of beta - blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of metoprolol tartrate .
In 2 - year studies in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg / kg / day ( 41 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type .
The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia .
In a 21 - month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg / kg / day ( 18 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , benign lung tumors ( small adenomas ) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals .
There was no increase in malignant or total ( benign plus malignant ) lung tumors , nor in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors .
This 21 - month study was repeated in CD - 1 mice , and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor .
All genotoxicity tests performed on metoprolol tartrate ( a dominant lethal study in mice , chromosome studies in somatic cells , a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test , and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei ) and metoprolol succinate ( a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test ) were negative .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol tartrate was observed in a study performed in rats at doses up to 22 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
Pregnancy Category C Metoprolol tartrate has been shown to increase post - implantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at doses up to 22 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 kg patient .
Distribution studies in mice confirm exposure of the fetus when metoprolol tartrate is administered to the pregnant animal .
These studies have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or teratogenicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Metoprolol is excreted in breast milk in very small quantities .
An infant consuming 1 liter of breast milk daily would receive a dose of less than 1 mg of the drug .
Caution should be exercised when metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of metoprolol succinate have not been established in patients < 6 years of age .
Due to AstraZeneca ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this generic drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
Pediatric use information is approved for AstraZeneca ' s metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets in hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience in hypertensive patients has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
Of the 1 , 990 patients with heart failure randomized to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets in the MERIT - HF trial , 50 % ( 990 ) were 65 years of age and older and 12 % ( 238 ) were 75 years of age and older .
There were no notable differences in efficacy or the rate of adverse events between older and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reactions While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension and Angina Most adverse effects have been mild and transient .
The following adverse reactions have been reported for immediate release metoprolol tartrate .
Central Nervous System : Tiredness and dizziness have occurred in about 10 of 100 patients .
Depression has been reported in about 5 of 100 patients .
Mental confusion and short - term memory loss have been reported .
Headache , somnolence , nightmares , and insomnia have also been reported .
Cardiovascular : Shortness of breath and bradycardia have occurred in approximately 3 of 100 patients .
Cold extremities ; arterial insufficiency , usually of the Raynaud type ; palpitations ; congestive heart failure ; peripheral edema ; syncope ; chest pain ; and hypotension have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Respiratory : Wheezing ( bronchospasm ) and dyspnea have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea has occurred in about 5 of 100 patients .
Nausea , dry mouth , gastric pain , constipation , flatulence , digestive tract disorders and heartburn have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Pruritus or rash have occurred in about 5 of 100 patients .
Worsening of psoriasis has also been reported .
Miscellaneous : Peyronie ' s disease has been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 , 000 patients .
Musculoskeletal pain , blurred vision , decreased libido , and tinnitus have also been reported .
There have been rare reports of reversible alopecia , agranulocytosis , and dry eyes .
Discontinuation of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with metoprolol .
Potential Adverse Reactions In addition , there are a variety of adverse reactions not listed above which have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse reactions to metoprolol succinate .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Heart Failure In the MERIT - HF study , serious adverse events and adverse events leading to discontinuation of study medication were systematically collected .
In the MERIT - HF study comparing metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets in daily doses up to 200 mg ( mean dose 159 mg once - daily ) ( n = 1990 ) to placebo ( n = 2001 ) , 10 . 3 % of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets patients discontinued for adverse events vs . 12 . 2 % of placebo patients .
The table below lists adverse events in the MERIT - HF study that occurred at an incidence of equal to or greater than 1 % in the metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets group and greater than placebo by more than 0 . 5 % , regardless of the assessment of causality .
Adverse Events Occurring in the MERIT - HF Study at an Incidence ≥ 1 % in the Metoprolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets Group and Greater than Placebo by More Than 0 . 5 % Metoprolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets N = 1990 % of patients Placebo N = 2001 % of patients Dizziness / vertigo 1 . 8 1 . 0 Bradycardia 1 . 5 0 . 4 Accident and / or injury 1 . 4 0 . 8 Other adverse events with an incidence of > 1 % on metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets and as common on placebo ( within 0 . 5 % ) included myocardial infarction , pneumonia , cerebrovascular disorder , chest pain , dyspnea / dyspnea aggravated , syncope , coronary artery disorder , ventricular tachycardia / arrhythmia aggravated , hypotension , diabetes mellitus / diabetes mellitus aggravated , abdominal pain , and fatigue .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets in worldwide postmarketing use , regardless of causality : Cardiovascular : 2 nd and 3 rd degree heart block , cardiogenic shock in patients with acute myocardial infarction .
Gastrointestinal : hepatitis , vomiting .
Hematologic : thrombocytopenia .
Musculoskeletal : arthralgia .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : anxiety / nervousness , hallucinations , paresthesia .
Reproductive , male : impotence .
Skin : increased sweating , photosensitivity , urticaria .
Special Sense Organs : taste disturbances .
OVERDOSAGE Acute Toxicity There have been a few reports of overdosage with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets and no specific overdosage information was obtained with this drug , with the exception of animal toxicology data .
However , since metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets ( metoprolol succinate salt ) contain the same active moiety , metoprolol , as conventional metoprolol tablets ( metoprolol tartrate salt ) , the recommendations on overdosage for metoprolol conventional tablets are applicable to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Signs and Symptoms Overdosage of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets may lead to severe hypotension , sinus bradycardia , atrioventricular block , heart failure , cardiogenic shock , cardiac arrest , bronchospasm , impairment of consciousness / coma , nausea , vomiting , and cyanosis .
Treatment In general , patients with acute or recent myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure may be more hemodynamically unstable than other patients and should be treated accordingly .
When possible the patient should be treated under intensive care conditions .
On the basis of the pharmacologic actions of metoprolol , the following general measures should be employed : Elimination of the Drug : Gastric lavage should be performed .
Bradycardia : Atropine should be given intravenously .
If the response is inadequate , isoproterenol or any other agent with positive chronotropic properties may be given cautiously .
Under some circumstances , transvenous pacemaker insertion may be necessary .
Hypotension : A vasopressor should be administered , e . g . , levarterenol or dopamine .
Bronchospasm : A beta2 - stimulating agent and / or a theophylline derivative should be administered .
Cardiac Failure : A digitalis glycoside and diuretics should be administered .
In shock resulting from inadequate cardiac contractility , administration of dobutamine , isoproterenol or glucagon may be considered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are intended for once daily administration .
For treatment of hypertension and angina , when switching from immediate - release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be used .
Dosages of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be individualized and titration may be needed in some patients .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are scored and can be divided ; however , the whole or half tablet should be swallowed whole and not chewed or crushed .
Hypertension The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose , whether used alone or added to a diuretic .
The dosage may be increased at weekly ( or longer ) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved .
In general , the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after 1 week of therapy .
Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied .
Due to AstraZeneca ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this generic drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
Dosage and administration information in pediatric patients 6 years and older is approved for AstraZeneca ' s metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Angina Pectoris The dosage of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be individualized .
The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily , given in a single dose .
The dosage may be gradually increased at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is a pronounced slowing of the heart rate .
Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied .
If treatment is to be discontinued , the dosage should be reduced gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks ( see WARNINGS ) .
Heart Failure Dosage must be individualized and closely monitored during up - titration .
Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , the dosing of diuretics , ACE inhibitors , and digitalis ( if used ) should be stabilized .
The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12 . 5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure .
The dose should then be doubled every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
If transient worsening of heart failure occurs , it may be treated with increased doses of diuretics , and it may also be necessary to lower the dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets or temporarily discontinue it .
The dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized .
Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
If heart failure patients experience symptomatic bradycardia , the dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets should be reduced .
HOW SUPPLIED Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets for oral administration are supplied as follows : 100 mg : White film - coated round tablets with a bevel edge containing 95 mg of metoprolol succinate equivalent to 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate , USP and debossed “ 368 ” on one side with a bisect on the other side .
NDC 58177 - 368 - 04 … … … … … … … .
… Bottles of 100 NDC 58177 - 368 - 09 … … … … … … … .
… Bottles of 1000 NDC 58177 - 368 - 12 … … … … … … … .
… Bottles of 5000 NDC 58177 - 368 - 11 … … … … … … … .
… Packages of 100 ( 10 x 10 cards ) 200 mg : White film - coated oval tablets containing 190 mg of metoprolol succinate equivalent to 200 mg of metoprolol tartrate , USP and debossed “ 358 ” on one side with a bisect on the other side .
NDC 58177 - 358 - 04 … … … … … … … .
… Bottles of 100 NDC 58177 - 358 - 09 … … … … … … … .
… Bottles of 1000 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature . )
Manufactured by KV Pharmaceutical Co . for ETHEX Corporation St . Louis , MO 63044 P5081 - 7 02 / 09 100 mg : 100 Tablets Bottle Label NDC 58177 - 368 - 04 Metorpolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 100 mg * 100 Tablets Rx Only ETHEX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 Tablets Bottle Label NDC 58177 - 368 - 09 Metorpolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 100 mg * 1000 Tablets Rx Only ETHEX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 Tablets Blister Pack Label NDC 58177 - 368 - 11 Metorpolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 100 mg * 100 Tablets ( 10 x 10 Unit Dose Packs ) Rx Only ETHEX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 200 mg : 100 Tablets Bottle Label NDC 58177 - 358 - 04 Metorpolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 200 mg * 100 Tablets Rx Only ETHEX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 Tablets Bottle Label NDC 58177 - 358 - 09 Metorpolol Succinate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 200 mg * 1000 Tablets Rx Only ETHEX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
