ORIGINALBOUDREAUX ’ S BUTT PASTE ® DIAPER RASH OINTMENT SKIN PROTECTANT ( ZINC OXIDE ) Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc oxide , 16 % Purpose Skin protectant Uses • Helps treat and prevent diaper rash • Protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after 7 days Keep out of the reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion If swallowed , seek medical help or call Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately Directions • Change wet and soiled diaper immediately • Cleanse the diaper area and allow to dry • Apply ointment liberally and as often as necessary with each diaper change and especially when exposed to wet diapers for a prolonged period of time , such as bedtime Other information • Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) • Remove foil seal from the tube ’ s tip • Use with infants , children and adults • Will stain clothing and fabric Inactive ingredients myroxylon pereiraie ( balsam peru ) resin , mineral oil , paraffin , petrolatum , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil Questions or comments 1 - 855 - 785 - 2888 www . buttpaste . com MAX STRENGTHBOUDREAUX ’ S BUTT PASTE ® DIAPER RASH OINTMENT SKIN PROTECTANT ( ZINC OXIDE ) Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc oxide , 40 % Purpose Skin protectant Uses • Helps treat and prevent diaper rash • Protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after 7 days Keep out of the reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion If swallowed , seek medical help or call Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately Directions • Change wet and soiled diaper immediately • Cleanse the diaper area and allow to dry • Apply ointment liberally and as often as necessary with each diaper change and especially when exposed to wet diapers for a prolonged period of time , such as bedtime Other information • Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) • Remove foil seal from the tube ’ s tip • Use with infants , children and adults • Will stain clothing and fabric Inactive ingredients myroxylon pereiraie ( balsam peru ) resin , mineral oil , paraffin , petrolatum , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil Questions or comments 1 - 855 - 785 - 2888 www . buttpaste . com BOUDREAUX ’ S ® BUTT BRUSH DIAPER CREAM APPLICATOR BPA FREE SILICONE Instructions : Step 1 : Apply Butt Paste ® on brush head .
Step 2 : Gently brush Butt Paste ® on baby ’ s bottom .
For best results , apply thick coat to form a protective barrier .
Step 3 : Clean after each use with a baby wipe .
Brush can be disinfected in boiling water as needed .
It is also dishwasher safe .
Suction cup sticks on almost any surface when changing the diaper .
WARNING : The Boudreaux ’ s Butt Brush ™ is not a toy .
Use only as directed .
Discontinue use if skin shows signs of sensitivity or irritation towards the Boudreaux ’ s Butt Brush ™ .
Discard or sterilize the Boudreaux ’ s Butt Brush ™ in boiling water if comes in contact with yeast infected skin or an infectious rash .
Principal display panel BOUDREAUX ’ S ® RASH KICKING ™ KIT KIT INCLUDES : - Original Boudreaux ’ s Butt Paste ® - NET WT .
2 oz ( 57 g ) - Maximum Strength Boudreaux ’ s Butt Paste ® - NET WT .
2 oz ( 57 g ) - Boudreaux ’ s Butt Brush ™ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
