ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Witch Hazel 0 . 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredient lists : water , angelica gigas extract , peppermint leaf extract , artemisia absinthium extract , Morus Alba Leaf Extract , cnidium officinale root extract , glycyrrhiza glabra ( licorice ) root extract , morus alba bark extract , artemisia absinthium extract , angelica dahurica root extract , scutellaria baicalensis root extract , pueraria lobata root extract , inula helenium extract , laminaria japonica extract , phellodendron amurense bark extract , clove flower extract , apricot kernel oil , jojoba oil , evening primrose oil , Camellia Japonica Seed Oil , rosa canina fruit oil , grape seed oil , shea butter , beeswax , sorbitan olivate , Ceramide1 , scutellaria baicalensis root extract , Paeonia Suffruticosa Root Extract , glycerin , butylene glycol , hyaluronic acid , vitaminE , Propolis Extract , Bitter Orange Flower Extract ( Neroli ) , Rose Flower Oil , Silk extract PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant , Moisturize WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
In case of having following symptoms after using this .
you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
1 ) In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
2 ) In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
2 .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
3 .
In case of getting it in your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of babies and children INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indication and usage : 1 .
Tighten the lid after using it .
2 .
Do n't keep it in the place where temperature extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight .
3 .
Use it anytime .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and administration : - The use of silk extract containing ‘ Resveratrol ’ known for enhancing antioxidant and anti - inflammatory activities and skin elasticity keeps skin healthy and elastic .
- A patented SKYLAKE herbal extract ( No . 0566933 ) offers excellent calming and moisturizing effects to irritated skin .
- The uses of natural ingredients such as natural preservative , bee wax and domestic - grown propolis deliver healthy and natural nutrition to skin .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
