[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY - NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains the active compound clobetasol propionate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical dermatologic use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Chemically , clobetasol propionate is ( 11ß , 16ß ) - 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 17 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate has the molecular formula C25H32CIFO5 and a molecular weight of 467 .
It is a white to cream - colored crystalline powder insoluble in water .
Clobetasol propionate cream contains clobetasol propionate 0 . 5 mg / g in a cream base composed of cetyl alcohol , citric acid monohydrate , glycol stearate , lanolin liquid , methylparaben , PEG - 400 stearate , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol , and white petrolatum .
Sodium hydroxide may be used to adjust pH . CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressing with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours has not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with clobetasol propionate cream indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate cream is a super - high potency corticosteroid formulation indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol Propionate Cream , USP , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Clobetasol propionate cream should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal from treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on therapy .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Patients receiving super - potent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time , and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA suppression .
Clobetasol propionate cream produced HPA axis suppression when used at doses as low as 2 g / day for 1 week in patients with eczema .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , clobetasol propionate cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate cream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH stimulation test • A . M . plasma cortisol test • Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration at dosage levels up to 50 mcg / kg per day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
Clobetasol propionate was nonmutagenic in three different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate has not been tested for teratogenicity when applied topically ; however , it is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
Teratogenicity studies in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and teratogenicity at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 1 . 4 and 0 . 04 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate cream .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In rabbits , clobetasol propionate was teratogenic at doses of 3 and 10 mcg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 02 and 0 . 05 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate cream .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of clobetasol propionate in pregnant women .
Clobetasol propionate cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of clobetasol propionate cream in pediatric patients has not been established .
Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use A limited number of patients at or above 65 years of age have been treated with clobetasol propionate cream ( n = 231 ) in US and non - US clinical trials .
While the number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , the adverse reactions reported in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of clobetasol propionate cream in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions reported for clobetasol propionate cream were burning and stinging sensation in 1 % of treated patients .
Less frequent adverse reactions were itching , skin atrophy , and cracking and fissuring of the skin .
Cushing syndrome has been reported in infants and adults as a result of prolonged use of topical clobetasol propionate formulations .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , irritation , striae , and miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Xiromed , LLC at 1 - 844 - XIROMED ( 1 - 844 - 947 - 6633 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clobetasol propionate cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate cream to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Clobetasol propionate cream is a super - high potency topical corticosteroids ; therefore , treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 g / week should not be used .
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Clobetasol propionate cream should not be used with occlusive dressings .
Geriatric Use In studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate cream , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Clobetasol Propionate Cream , USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 15 - g tubes ( NDC : 63629 - 2332 - 1 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Clobetasol propionate cream should not be refrigerated .
Rx only Clobetasol Propionate 0 . 05 % Cream , # 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
