Active Ingredient Menthyl salicylate 5 . 00 % Menthol 5 . 00 % Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical analgesic Use  Arthritis  simple backache  strains  sprains  bursitis  tendonitis  bruises  cramps Warnning Do not apply wounds or damaged skin .
Do not bandage this product or cover with anything other than light clothing Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are  allergic to salicylates  taking anticoagulant medications .
When using this product  For external use only , to relieve the temporary pain .
The application of external heat , such as a heating pad may result in excessive skin irritation or skin burn .
Stop use and ask a doctor if  rash , irritation , excessive redness , burning or discomfort of the skin develop .
 condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product with any other heating or cooling device or with other external analgesic products .
Keep out of reach of children , Children 12 years of age and under should only use this product upon the advice of a healthcare practitioner .
Directions  Adults : Apply Pain relief patch to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
 For children under 12 years of age , consult your health care practitioner .
 Open pouch and remove patch .
 If desired , cut patch to size .
 Peel off protective film and apply sticky side to desired area .
 Remove patch before applying a new one .
 Dispose of patch in waste receptacle .
 If condition worsens , of if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a healthcare practitioner .
Inactive Ingredients Aluminium glycinate , Ethylene Diamine Tetraacetic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Titanium dioxide , Purified water , Tartaric acid , Glycerin , Sodium polyacrylate , Carbomer , Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
