DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] whose empiric formula is C3H5N3O9 , and whose molecular weight is 227 . 09 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
Dextrose ( Dextrose Hydrous , USP ) is D - glucose monohydrate , a hexose sugar whose structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] whose empiric formula is C6H12O6 • H2O , and whose molecular weight is 198 . 17 .
Dextrose is derived from corn .
Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of nitroglycerin and dextrose in water for injection .
The solution is clear and practically colorless .
Each 100 mL contains 10 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg nitroglycerin ( added as Diluted Nitroglycerin , USP with propylene glycol ) ; 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP ; 0 . 84 mL Alcohol , USP ( added as a dissolution aid ) ; and 105 mg Citric Acid Hydrous , USP ( added as a buffer ) .
The pH of the solution is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and , if necessary , hydrochloric acid .
Although dry nitroglycerin is explosive , nitroglycerin in 5 % dextrose is not .
Composition , osmolarity and pH are given in Table 1 .
Table 1 Composition [ 1 ] Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc ) pH Nitroglycerin ( mcg / mL ) Dextrose Hydrous , USP ( g / L ) 25 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 100 50 428 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) 50 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 200 50 440 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) 100 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 400 50 465 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their anti - anginal efficacy been restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about 3 minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( non - vasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 - 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
Clinical Trials : Blinded , placebo - controlled trials of intravenous nitroglycerin have not been reported , but multiple investigators have reported open - label studies , and there are scattered reports of studies in which intravenous nitroglycerin was tested in blinded fashion against sodium nitroprusside .
In each of these studies , therapeutic doses of intravenous nitroglycerin were found to reduce systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure .
The heart rate was usually increased , presumably as a reflexive response to the fall in blood pressure .
Coronary perfusion pressure was usually , but not always , maintained .
Intravenous nitroglycerin reduced central venous pressure ( CVP ) , right atrial pressure ( RAP ) , pulmonary arterial pressure ( PAP ) , pulmonary - capillary wedge pressure ( PCWP ) , pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) , and systemic vascular resistance ( SVR ) .
When these parameters were elevated , reducing them toward normal usually caused a rise in cardiac output .
Conversely , intravenous nitroglycerin usually reduced cardiac output when it was given to patients whose CVP , RAP , PAP , PCWP , PVR , and SVR were all normal .
Most clinical trials of intravenous nitroglycerin have been brief ; they have typically followed hemodynamic parameters during a single surgical procedure .
In one careful study , one of the few that lasted more than a few hours , continuous intravenous nitroglycerin had lost almost all of its hemodynamic effect after 48 hours .
In the same study , patients who received nitroglycerin infusions for only 12 hours out of each 24 demonstrated no similar attenuation of effect .
These results are consistent with those seen in multiple large , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials of other formulations of nitroglycerin and other nitrates .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection is indicated for treatment of peri - operative hypertension ; for control of heart failure in the setting of acute myocardial infarction ; for treatment of angina pectoris in patients who have not responded to sublingual nitroglycerin and ß - blockers ; and for induction of intraoperative hypotension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
In patients with pericardial tamponade , restrictive cardiomyopathy , or constrictive pericarditis , cardiac output is dependent upon venous return .
Intravenous nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients with these conditions .
Nitroglycerin is also contraindicated in patients with increased intracranial pressure .
Do not use Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection in patients who are taking certain drugs for erectile dysfunction ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) such as sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil .
Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension , syncope , or myocardial ischemia .
Do not use Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
WARNINGS Use of PVC ( polyvinyl chloride ) tubing in infusion sets may lead to loss of active ingredient due to adsorption of nitroglycerin to PVC tubing , therefore dosage is affected ( see Dosage and Administration ) .
Nitroglycerin adsorption by PVC tubing is increased when the tubing is long , the flow rates are low , and the nitroglycerin concentration of the solution is high .
The delivered fraction of the solution ' s original nitroglycerin content has been 20 - 60 % in published studies using PVC tubing ; the fraction varies with time during a single infusion , and no simple correction factor can be used .
PVC tubing has been used in most published studies of intravenous nitroglycerin , but the reported doses have been calculated by simply multiplying the flow rate of the solution by the solution ' s original concentration of nitroglycerin .
The actual doses delivered have been less , sometimes much less , than those reported .
Relatively non - adsorptive intravenous administration sets are available .
If intravenous nitroglycerin is administered through non - adsorptive tubing , doses based upon published reports will generally be too high .
Some in - line intravenous filters also adsorb nitroglycerin ; these filters should be avoided .
Solutions containing dextrose without electrolytes should not be administered through the same administration set as blood , as this may result in pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
The intravenous administration of solutions may cause fluid overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration and congested states of pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injections .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration of the injections .
PRECAUTIONS Severe hypotension and shock may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin .
Monitor patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Tolerance development and occurrence of cross tolerance to other nitro compounds have been reported .
In industrial workers who have long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Some clinical trials in angina patients have provided nitroglycerin for about 12 continuous hours of every 24 - hour day .
During the nitrate - free intervals in some of these trials , anginal attacks have been more easily provoked than before treatment , and patients have demonstrated hemodynamic rebound and decreased exercise tolerance .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of intravenous nitroglycerin is not known .
Lower concentrations of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection increase the potential precision of dosing , but these concentrations increase the total fluid volume that must be delivered to the patient .
Total fluid load may be a dominant consideration in patients with compromised function of the heart , liver , and / or kidneys .
Administer nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection via an infusion pump that can maintain a constant infusion rate .
Intracoronary injection of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection has not been studied .
Monitor patients with known sub - clinical or overt diabetes mellitus when using solutions containing dextrose .
Laboratory Tests : Because of the propylene glycol content of intravenous nitroglycerin , serum triglyceride assays that rely on glycerol oxidase may give falsely elevated results in patients receiving this medication .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of antihypertensives ( e . g . , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers and tricyclic antidepressants ) and may cause increased hypotensive effects ..
Concomitant use of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection with phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( e . g . sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil ) can cause hypotension and is contraindicated ( see Contraindications ) .
Concomitant use of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection with riociguat , a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator , can cause hypotension and is contraindicated ( see Contraindications ) .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Nitroglycerin at higher dosages may interfere with the anticoagulant effect of heparin .
Intravenous nitroglycerin can induce heparin resistance .
Administration of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection through the same infusion set as blood can result in pseudoagglutination and hemolysis .
Do not mix Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection with any other medication of any kind .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Animal carcinogenesis studies with injectable nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs . 0 % in controls and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , p . o . , or in in vitro cytogenetic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for six months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high - dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
Pregnancy : Animal teratology studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin injection .
Teratology studies in rats and rabbits were conducted with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively , and no toxic effects on dams or fetuses were seen .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if nitroglycerin is present in human milk or if nitroglycerin has effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for nitroglycerin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from nitroglycerin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
However , the relationship between hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin and dose in the pediatric population have been documented in the literature .
Studies in the literature used doses of nitroglycerin injection in pediatric patients ranging from 0 . 5 to 5 mcg / kg / min .
The following equation can be used to calculate the flow rate in mL / hour of nitroglycerin using the 100 mcg / mL ( 25 mg / 250 mL ) concentration of nitroglycerin .
Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ Dose ( mcg / kg / min ) x Weight ( kg ) x 60 min / h ] Final Concentration ( mcg / mL ) Example calculations for infusion rates are as follows : • Example 1 : for a 2 kg child at a dose of 0 . 5 µg / kg / min using a 100 mcg / mL concentration , the infusion rate would be as follows : Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ 0 . 5 ( mcg / kg / min ) x 2 ( kg ) x 60 ( min / h ) ] = 0 . 6 ( mL / h ) 100 ( mcg / mL ) • Example 2 : for a 10 kg child at a dose of 5 mcg / kg / min using a 100 mcg / mL concentration , the infusion rate would be as follows : Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ 5 ( mcg / kg / min ) x 10 ( kg ) x 60 ( min / h ) ] = 30 ( mL / h ) 100 ( mcg / mL ) Note : Very low infusion rates may require that a more dilute concentration of nitroglycerin infusion solution be prepared .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Nitroglycerin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Do not use unless vacuum is present and solution is clear .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose - related and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Allergic reactions to nitroglycerin are also uncommon , and the great majority of those reported have been cases of contact dermatitis or fixed drug eruptions in patients receiving nitroglycerin in ointments or patches .
There have been a few reports of genuine anaphylactoid reactions , and these reactions can probably occur in patients receiving nitroglycerin by any route .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients .
Methemoglobinemia is so infrequent at these doses that further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment is deferred ( see Overdosage ) .
Dyspnea has also been reported .
Data are not available to allow estimation of the frequency of adverse reactions during treatment with Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of overdose are generally similar to the described adverse reactions ( see Adverse Reactions ) .
There is no specific antidote for overdose of nitroglycerin .
The risk of overdose can be minimized by close monitoring during treatment .
Hemodynamic Effects : The ill effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ' s capacity to induce vasodilation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which - if any - of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 - 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with moderate doses of organic nitrates .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , discontinue treatment of nitroglycerin .
If condition is not reversed , treat with methylene blue , 1 - 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
Administer Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection only via an infusion pump that can maintain a constant infusion rate .
Do not use a container which has lost its vacuum , or one in which particulate matter is visible .
Dosage is affected by the type of infusion set used ( see Warnings ) .
Although the usual adult starting dose in published studies has been 25 mcg / min or more , these studies used PVC tubing , so the delivered doses were less than those reported .
When nonadsorptive tubing is used , doses must be reduced ( see Warnings and Precautions ) .
The dosage must be determined by the patient ’ s individual requirement and depending on the required response and possible adverse effects ( see Adverse Reactions ) .
Even using nonadsorptive tubing , the dose necessary to achieve a given response will vary greatly from patient to patient .
Patients with normal or low left - ventricular filling pressure ( e . g . , patients with uncomplicated angina pectoris ) may respond fully to as little as 5 mcg / min , while other patients may require a dose that is one or even two orders of magnitude higher .
Continuous monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate is necessary in all patients receiving this medication ; in many cases , invasive monitoring of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure will also be indicated .
Lower concentrations of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection increase the potential precision of dosing , but these concentrations increase the total fluid volume that must be delivered to the patient .
Total fluid load may be a dominant consideration in patients with compromised function of the heart , liver , and / or kidneys .
The necessary flow rates to achieve various dose rates with the available concentrations are shown in the following table .
Using nonadsorptive tubing , the initial adult dosage of Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection should be 5 mcg / min .
Subsequent titration must be guided by the clinical results , with dose increments becoming more cautious as partial response is seen .
Initial titration should be in 5 mcg / min increments at intervals of 3 to 5 minutes .
If no response is seen at 20 mcg / min , increments of 10 and even 20 mcg / min can be used .
Once some hemodynamic response is observed , dosage increments should be smaller and less frequent .
When the concentration is changed , the tubing must be disconnected from the patient and flushed with the new solution before therapy is continued .
If this precaution is not taken , then depending upon the tubing , pump , and flow rate used , it might be several hours before nitroglycerin is delivered at the desired rate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless the solution is clear and the seal is intact .
Do not add supplementary medication to Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection .
Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ Dose ( mcg / min ) x 60 min / h ] Concentration ( mcg / mL ) Example calculations for infusion rates are as follows : • Example 1 : for a dose of 30 µg / min using a 100 mcg / mL concentration , the infusion rate would be as follows : Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ 30 ( mcg / min ) x 60 ( min / h ) ] = 18 ( mL / h ) 100 ( mcg / mL ) • Example 2 : for a dose of 240 mcg / min using a 400 mcg / mL concentration , the infusion rate would be as follows : Infusion Rate ( mL / h ) = [ 5 ( mcg / min ) x 60 ( min / h ) ] = 36 ( mL / h ) 400 ( mcg / mL ) HOW SUPPLIED Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection is supplied in glass container as follows : Code Size ( mL ) NDC Product Name 1A0692 250 0338 - 1047 - 02 25 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 1A0694 250 0338 - 1049 - 02 50 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 1A0696 250 0338 - 1051 - 02 100 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection Minimize exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store the product at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Protect from light until time of use .
Discard any unused portion .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 Printed in USA Baxter is a registered trademark of Baxter International Inc .
07 - 19 - 76 - 571 Rev . August 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lot Exp 07 - 09 - 72 - 122 1A0692 NDC 0338 - 1047 - 02 Baxter Logo Nitroglycerin Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 25 mg per 250 mL ( 100 mcg / mL ) Protect frm light until time of use .
250 mL Each 100 mL contains : 10 mg of Nitroglycerin ( added as Diluted Nitroglycerin , USP with propylene glycol ) , 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP , 0 . 84 mL Alcohol , USP ( added as a dissolution aid ) and 105 mg Citric Acid Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) .
Hypertonic .
428 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Sterile .
Single dose container .
Dosage : For intravenous use .
Use only if vacuum is present and solution is clear .
Administration set can affect amount of nitroglycerin delivered to patient .
See insert .
Rx Only .
Use only with a calibrated infusion device .
Do not add supplementary medication .
Storage : Room temperature ( 25ºC ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Exposure to ambient light for up to 72 hours , including time for administration , does not adversely affect the product .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation , USA 3 0 3 3 8 1 0 4 7 0 2 3 * Bar Code Position Only Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 25 mg per 250 mL ( 100 mcg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 25 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 250 ML Qty 12 NDC 0338 - 1047 - 02 1A0692 EXP LOT # ( 01 ) 50303381047028 ( 17 ) 090331 ( 10 ) G012345 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lot Exp 07 - 09 - 72 - 120 1A0694 NDC 0338 - 1049 - 02 Baxter Logo Nitroglycerin Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 50 mg per 250 mL ( 200 mcg / mL ) Protect from light until time of use .
250 mL Each 100 mL contains : 20 mg of Nitroglycerin ( added as Diluted Nitroglycerin , USP with propylene glycol ) , 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP , 0 . 84 mL Alcohol , USP ( added as a dissolution aid ) and 105 mg Citric Acid Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) .
Hypertonic .
440 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Sterile .
Single dose container .
Dosage : For intravenous use .
Use only if vacuum is present and solution is clear .
Administration set can affect amount of nitroglycerin delivered to patient .
See insert .
Rx Only .
Use only with a calibrated infusion device .
Do not add supplementary medication .
Storage : Room temperature ( 25ºC ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Exposure to ambient light for up to 72 hours , including time for administration , does not adversely affect the product .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation , USA 303381049027 * Bar Code Position Only Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextose Injecton 50 mg per 250 mL ( 200 mcg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 250 ML Qty 12 NDC 0338 - 1049 - 02 1A0694 EXP LOT # ( 01 ) 50303381049022 ( 17 ) 090331 ( 10 ) G012345 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lot Exp 07 - 09 - 72 - 121 1A0696 NDC 0338 - 1051 - 02 Baxter Logo Nitroglycerin Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 100 mg per 250 mL ( 400 mcg / mL ) Protect from light until time of use .
250 mL Each 100 mL contains : 40 mg of Nitroglycerin ( added as Diluted Nitroglycerin , USP with propylene glycol ) , 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP , 0 . 84 mL Alcohol , USP ( added as a dissolution aid ) and 105 mg Citric Acid Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) .
Hypertonic .
465 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Sterile .
Single dose container .
Dosage : For intravenous use .
Use only if vacuum is present and solution is clear .
Administration set can affect amount of nitroglycerin delivered to patient .
See insert .
Rx Only .
Use only with calibrated infusion device .
Do not add supplementary medication .
Storage : Room temperature ( 25ºC ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Exposure to ambient light for up to 72 hours , including time for administration , does not adversely affect the product .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation 303381051020 * Bar Code Position Only Nitrogycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 100 mg per 250 mL ( 400 mcg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 mg Nitroglycerin in 5 % Dextrose Injection 250 ML Qty 12 NDC 0338 - 1051 - 02 1A0696 EXP LOT # ( 01 ) 50303381051025 ( 17 ) 090331 ( 10 ) G012345 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
