DESCRIPTION : Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) for oral administration contains : Phenobarbital , USP ....................................................... 16 . 2 mg ( WARNING : May be habit forming ) Hyoscyamine sulfate , USP ......................................... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine sulfate , USP ................................................. 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine hydrobromide , USP ................................
0 . 0065 mg Alcohol ............................................................................... 23 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Artificial grape flavor , ethyl alcohol , FD and C blue # 1 , FD and C red # 40 , glycerin , purified water USP , sodium saccharin , sorbitol solution 70 % , and sucrose .
Phenobarbital is a barbiturate with the chemical name 5 - Ethyl - 5 - phenylbarbituric acid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hyoscyamine sulfate is a belladonna alkaloid with the chemical name Benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxmethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester , [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atropine sulfate is belladonna alkaloid with the chemical name : Benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester , endo ( ± ) - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , monohydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Scopolamine is a belladonna alkaloid with the chemical name Benezeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 9 - methyl - 3 - oxa - 9 - azatricyclo [ 3 . 31 . 0 . 2 , 4 ] non - [ 7 - yl ester , hydrobromide , rihydrate , [ 7 ( S ) - ( 1α , 2β , 4β , 5α , 7β ) ] - .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Phenobarbital is a barbiturate , nonselective central nervous system depressant which is primarily used as a sedative hypnotic and also as an anticonvulsant in subhypnotic doses .
Atropine Sulfate , Hyoscyamine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide are belladonna alkaloids classified as anticholinergic , antimuscarinic drugs and act to inhibit muscarinic actions of acetycholine at postganglionic parasympathetic neuron effector sites .
These drugs are also used as antispasmodics due to their anticholinergic action and produce the effect in the body of reduced muscle spasms in the digestive or urinary tract , and reduced fluid secretions from certain glands or organs .
This drug combination provides peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : FDA has classified the following indications as " possibly " effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Quadrapax Elixir is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in patients with acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in which phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
It is also contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , obstructive uropathy ; paralytic ileus ; myasthenia gravis ; intestinal atony ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ; or severe ulcerative colitis .
WARNINGS : Heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids in high temperatures .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug could be harmful .
Quadrapax Elixir may produce drowsiness and blurred vision .
The patient should be warned about engaging in hazardous work or activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and larger doses of the anticoagulant may be needed for optimal effect .
When phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to patients who are susceptible to addiction or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological drug dependence .
Barbiturates should be used with caution in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS : GENERAL : Use with caution in patients with prostatic hypertrophy , autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension .
Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : Practitioners should give the following information and instructions to patients : • Do not increase the dose of this drug without consulting a physician .
• Do not share this medication with others .
The use of this product caries with it an associated risk of psychological and / or physical dependence .
The use of this product may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery .
Use of this product with alcohol may result in additional central nervous system depressant effects .
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you also take antihistamines , anti - seizure drugs , medicine for sleep or anxiety , muscle relaxants , narcotic pain relievers , or psychiatric medicines .
This drug may increase the risk for heatstroke because it decreases sweating .
Avoid becoming overheated in hot weather , saunas , and during exercise or other strenuous activity .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Do not take this medicine with the following medications : • voriconazole • pramlintide .
This medicine may also interact with the following medication : CNS depressants cyclosporine female hormones , like estrogens or progestins and birth control pills medicines for HIV infection like indinavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , and saquinavir warfarin amantadine anti - Parkinson ' s drugs levodopa , benztropine , trihexphenidyl antispasmodic drugs clidinium , dicyclomine , propantheline MAO inhibitors furazolidone , isocarboxazid , linezolid , moclobemide , phenelzine , procarbazine , rasagiline , selegiline , tranylcpromine anti - arrhythmic drugs disopyramide , procainamide , quinidine azole anti - fungal drugs ketoconazole , itraconzole bisphosphonate drugs alendronate , risedronate corticosteroid prednisone digoxin ( slow - dissolving tablets ) phenothiazines ( Promethazine ) potassium tablets / capsules anti - seizure drug carbamazepine anti - anxiety drugs alprazolam , diazepam , zolpidem narcotic pain relievers psychiatric drugs chlorpromazine , haloperidol , amitriptyline , risperidone certain antihistamines diphenhydramine , meclizine muscle relaxants CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY TERATOGENIC EFFECTS : Pregnancy Category D . Quadrapax Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Retrospective case - controlled studies have suggested a connection between the maternal consumption of phenobarbital and higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities .
Following oral administration , phenobarbital readily crosses the placental barrier and is distributed throughout fetal tissues with highest concentrations found in the placenta , fetal liver , and brain .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
NONTERATOGENIC EFFECTS : Reports of infants suffering from long - term phenobarbital exposure in utero included the acute withdrawal syndrome of seizures and hyperirritability from birth to a delayed onset of up to 14 days .
LABOR AND DELIVERY : Administration of Quadrapax Elixir to the mother during labor may result in respiratory depression in the newborn .
Premature infants are particularly susceptible to the depressant effects .
NURSING MOTHERS : Caution should be exercised when Quadrapax Elixir is administered to a nursing woman .
The active ingredients contained in this drug product are known to be excreted in human milk .
SPECIAL PATIENT POPULATION : Dosage should be reduces in the debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to phenobarbital .
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease .
PEDIATRIC USE : Use Quadrapax Elixir with caution in children as they may be more susceptible to the effects of this product especially infants , children with Down ' s syndrome , spastic paralysis or brain damage .
GERIATRIC USE : Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of Quadrapax Elixir and observed closely .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions associated with anticholinergics and / or anticonvulsants are : dry mouth ; tachycardia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; palpitation ; blurred vision ; prolonged pupil dilation ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , hives and / or other dermal manifestations ; decreased sweating ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling and musculoskeletal pain .
Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation and drowsiness to even small doses of the drug .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : This product is subject to the provisions of the Controlled Substance Act and has been placed in Schedule IV .
Phenobarbital may be habit - forming .
Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur following prolonged use .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
OVERDOSAGE An overdose of Quadrapax Elixir is a potentially lethal overdose situation .
Call your doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately if an overdose is suspected .
SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS : Characteristics of phenobarbital overdose include decreased consciousness leading to coma , bradycardia , bradypnea , hypothermia and hypotention .
Overdose may also lead to pulmonary edema and acute renal failure as result of shock .
Other symptoms of an overdose with this product include headache , nausea , vomiting , tachycardia , severe or persistent blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness or disorientation , severe dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
RECOMMENDED TREATMENT : Treatment of overdose is supportive , and consists mainly in the maintenance of airway patency through endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation , correction of bradycardia and hypotention with intravenous fluids and vasopressors , if necessary , and removal of as much drug as possible from the body .
Depending on how much time has elapsed since ingestion of the drug , this may be accomplished through gastric lavage or use of activated charcoal .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The dosage of Quadrapax Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Adults : One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three to four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms .
Pediatric patients : may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours .
Starting dosage Body weight q4h q6h 10 lb .
( 4 . 5 kg ) 0 . 5 mL 0 . 75 mL 20 lb .
( 9 . 1 kg ) 1 . 0 mL 1 . 5 mL 30 lb .
( 13 . 6 kg ) 1 . 5 mL 2 . 0 mL 50 lb .
( 22 . 7 kg ) 1 / 2 tsp 3 / 4 tsp 75 lb .
( 34 kg ) 3 / 4 tsp 1 tsp 100 lb .
( 45 . 4 kg ) 1 tsp 1 1 / 2 tsp Children under 2 years of age : as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Quadrapax Elixir is a purple colored , grape flavored liquid .
1 Pint ( 16 fl oz . )
bottles NDC 21695 - 970 - 16 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
WARNINGS : KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Manufactured for : Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 Iss .
03 / 11 Relabeled by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRODUCT PACKAGING : The packaging below represents the labeling currently used : Principal display panel and side panel for 473 mL label : NDC 21695 - 970 - 16 QUADRAPAX ELIXIR Grape Flavored Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) for oral administration contains : Phenobarbital , USP ................................................. 16 . 2 mg ( WARNING : may be habit forming ) Hyoscyamine sulfate , USP ................................... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine sulfate , USP ........................................... 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine hydrobromide , USP .......................... 0 . 0065 mg Alcohol ........................................................................
23 % CIV Bulk Container Not For Household Use Rx ONLY 1 Pint ( 16 fl oz / 473 mL ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
THIS BOTTLE IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED TO THE CONSUMER .
WARNINGS : KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
May be habit forming .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant cap .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 Iss .
03 / 11 Relabeled by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
