Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings For this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodtitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of chrildren If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 26 . 9 % , benzoic acid , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , caramel ADA Council Statement The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Market Basket Antisept Mouth Rinse is based opn its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used at directed .
Disclaimer This product is manufactued or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Adverse reaction DISTRIBUTED BY DEMOULAS SUPER MARKETS , INC .
875 EAST STREET TEWKSBURY , MA 01876 MADE IN U . S . A . principal display panel " MORE FOR YOUR DOLLAR " MARKET BASKET Compare to Listerine ANTISEPTIC MOUTH RINSE Original Kills germs that cause Bad Breath , Plaque and the gum disease Gingivitis ADA Accepted American Dental Association Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
