Rx only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY - NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION : Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % contains the active compound clobetasol propionate , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Chemically , clobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - propionate , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate has the molecular formula C25H32ClFO5 and a molecular weight of 466 . 98 .
It is a white to cream - colored crystalline powder insoluble in water .
Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % contains : 0 . 5 mg / g clobetasol propionate in a base composed of purified water , isopropyl alcohol ( 39 . 3 % ) , carbomer 934 P and sodium hydroxide ( for pH adjustment ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses , corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids such as clobetasol propionate are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Clobetasol propionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate , is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As with all topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similarly to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate and its metabolites , are also excreted into the bile .
Following repeated nonocclusive application in the treatment of scalp psoriasis , there is some evidence that clobetasol propionate topical solution , 0 . 05 % has the potential to depress plasma cortisol levels in some patients .
However , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis effects produced by systemically absorbed clobetasol propionate have been shown to be transient and reversible upon completion of a 2 - week course of treatment .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % is indicated for short - term topical treatment of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of moderate to severe corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses of the scalp .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 mL / week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the HPA axis .
This product is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Clobetasol propionate topical solution is contraindicated in patients with primary infections of the scalp , or in patients who are hypersensitive to clobetasol propionate , other corticosteroids , or any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at doses as low as 2 g ( of ointment ) per day .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has resulted in reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions that augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH - stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Irritation is possible if clobetasol propionate topical solution contacts the eye .
If that should occur , immediate flushing of the eye with a large volume of water is recommended .
If the inflammatory lesion becomes infected , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Although clobetasol propionate topical solution is intended for the treatment of inflammatory conditions of the scalp , it should be noted that certain areas of the body , such as the face , groin , and axillae , are more prone to atrophic changes than other areas of the body following treatment with corticosteroids .
Frequent observation of the patient is important if these areas are to be treated .
As with other potent topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate topical solution should not be used in the treatment of rosacea and perioral dermatitis .
Topical corticosteroids in general should not be used in the treatment of acne or as sole therapy in widespread plaque psoriasis .
Information for Patients : Patients using clobetasol propionate topical solution should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration at dosage levels up to 50 mcg / kg / day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
Clobetasol propionate was nonmutagenic in 3 different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects - Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate has not been tested for teratogenicity when applied topically ; however , it is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and the mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
Teratogenicity studies in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and teratogenicity at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 1 . 4 and 0 . 04 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate topical solution .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In rabbits , clobetasol propionate was teratogenic at doses of 3 and 10 mcg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 02 and 0 . 05 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate topical solution .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of clobetasol propionate in pregnant women .
Clobetasol propionate topical solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate topical solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Use of clobetasol propionate topical solution in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels , and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use : A limited number of patients at or above 65 years of age ( n = 65 ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate topical solution in US and non - US clinical trials .
While the number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , the adverse reactions reported in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of clobetasol propionate topical solution in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Clobetasol propionate topical solution is generally well tolerated when used for 2 - week treatment periods .
The most frequent adverse events reported for clobetasol propionate topical solution have been local and have included burning and / or stinging sensation , which occurred in 29 of 294 patients ; scalp pustules , which occurred in 3 of 294 patients ; and tingling and folliculitis , each of which occurred in 2 of 294 patients .
Less frequent adverse events were itching and tightness of the scalp , dermatitis , tenderness , headache , hair loss , and eye irritation , each of which occurred in 1 of 294 patients .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when topical corticosteroids are used as recommended .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
In rare instances , treatment ( or withdrawal of treatment ) of psoriasis with corticosteroids is thought to have exacerbated the disease or provoked the pustular form of the disease , so careful patient supervision is recommended .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 645 - 9833 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied clobetasol propionate topical solution can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % should be applied to the affected scalp areas twice daily , once in the morning and once at night .
Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % is potent ; therefore , treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and amounts greater than 50 mL / week should not be used .
Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP , 0 . 05 % is not to be used with occlusive dressings .
Geriatric Use : In studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate topical solution , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED : Clobetasol Propionate Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in plastic squeeze bottle as follows : NDC 0168 - 0269 - 50 50 mL plastic bottle Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate .
Do not use near an open flame .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of FOUGERA PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 46258829 A R10 / 2019 # 244 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 50 mL BOTTLE NDC 0168 - 0269 - 50 Fougera ® CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 0 . 05 % 50 mL FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY – NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceutical Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 50 mL CARTON NDC 0168 - 0269 - 50 Fougera ® CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 0 . 05 % 50 mL FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
