Active ingredient ( in each dose ) Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , 17 g ( cap filled to line ) Purpose Osmotic laxative Uses • relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol .
Do not use If you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • nausea , vomitting or abdominal pain • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks • irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
When using this product you may have loose , watery , more frequent stools .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding or your nausea , bloating , cramping or abdominal pain gets worse .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
• you get diarrhea • you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line • adults and children 17 years of age and older : • fill to top of line in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose ( 17 g ) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounce of beverage ( cold , hot , or room temperature ) then drink • use once a day • use no more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) Inactive ingredient none Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Smooth LAX ® Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Oral Solution , Osmotic Laxative • Relieves occasional constipation / irregularity • Softens stool • Unflavored powder • Grit free FL OZ ( mL ) Compare to MiraLAX ® active ingredient ≠≠ TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Polyethylene glycol 3350 increases frequency of bowel movements and softens the stool ≠≠ This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC , distributor of MiraLAX ® .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 walgreens . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
