Salicylic Acid 0 . 7 % ...............................
Anti Acne [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes • Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose get medical help or Contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• For external use only • Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to two times daily .
Massage for 30 seconds until the foam is absorbed Because excessive drying of the skin may occur .
start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • " Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above For the management ( or treatment ) of Acne Helps clear up acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads + 34 913456902 Monday to Friday : 9 : 00 am to 5 : 00 pm • keep the product in a cool and dry place • Apply a small amount the intimate parts and gently wash .
Rinse with water • Maybe used as often as necessary Aqua , Isobutane , Butane , Propane , Propylene Glycol , PEG - 8 Caprylic / Capric Glycerides , Propanediol , Aqua , Alcohol , Iris Florentina Root Extract , Zinc Sulfate , Retinyl Palmitate , Butylene Glycol , Aqua , Arctium Majus Root Extract , Zinc Sulfate , Biotin , Citrus Limon Fruit Water , PEG / PPG - 20 / 6 Dimethicone , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Aloe barbadensis Extract , Citric Acid , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Benzoate , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Sulfite , Panthenol , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Benzoate , Parfum , Glycyrrhizic Acid Granex Foam Anti Acne Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
