1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet is an orally administered , non - ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson ’ s disease .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Parkinson ’ s Disease Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson ’ s disease .
2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are taken once daily , with or without food .
Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed , crushed , or divided .
( 2 . 1 ) • The starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks , followed by increases of 2 mg / day at 1 week or longer intervals as appropriate , depending on therapeutic response and tolerability , up to a maximally recommended dose of 24 mg / day .
Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 1 week or longer after each dose increment .
Caution should be exercised during dose titration because too rapid a rate of titration can lead to dose selection that does not provide additional benefit , but that increases the risk of adverse reactions .
( 2 . 2 , 14 . 2 ) • Patients may be switched directly from immediate - release ropinirole tablets to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
The initial switching dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of immediate - release ropinirole , see Table 1 .
( 2 . 3 ) • If Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets must be discontinued , it should be tapered gradually over a 7 - day period .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Considerations • Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are taken once daily , with or without food .
Taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with food may reduce the occurrence of nausea ; this has not been established in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed , crushed , or divided .
• If a significant interruption in therapy with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets has occurred , retitration of therapy may be warranted .
2 . 2 Dosing for Parkinson ’ s Disease The starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks , followed by increases of 2 mg / day at 1 - week or longer intervals as appropriate , depending on therapeutic response and tolerability , up to a maximally recommended dose of 24 mg / day .
In clinical trials , dosage was initiated at 2 mg / day and gradually titrated based on individual therapeutic response and tolerability .
Doses greater than 24 mg / day have not been studied in clinical trials .
Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 1 week or longer after each dose increment .
Caution should be exercised during dose titration because too rapid a rate of titration may lead to dose selection that may not provide additional benefit , but that may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Due to the flexible dosing design used in clinical studies , specific dose response information could not be determined .
When Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are administered as adjunct therapy to L - dopa , the concurrent dose of L - dopa may be decreased gradually as tolerated .
In the placebo - controlled advanced Parkinson ’ s disease study , the L - dopa dose was reduced once patients reached a dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets of 8 mg / day .
Overall , L - dopa dose reduction was sustained in 93 % of patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and in 72 % of patients on placebo .
On average the L - dopa dose was reduced by 34 % in patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7 - day period .
2 . 3 Switching From Immediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets Patients may be switched directly from immediate - release ropinirole to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
The initial dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets as shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Conversion from Immediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended - Release TabletsImmediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose ( mg ) Ropinirole Extended - Release Tablets Total Daily Dose ( mg ) 0 . 75 to 2 . 25 2 3 to 4 . 5 4 6 6 7 . 5 to 9 8 12 12 15 to 18 16 21 20 24 24 Following conversion to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , and 12 mg ( 3 ) ● 2 mg Pink , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 771 one side and plain on other side .
● 4 mg Light brown , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on one side and plain on other side .
773 ● 6 mg White , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 776 one side and plain on other side .
● 8 mg Brown , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 774 one side and plain on other side .
● 12 mg Green , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ 775 on one side and plain on other side .
4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Falling asleep during activities of daily living may occur , including the operation of motor vehicles , which sometimes resulted in accidents .
Sudden onset of sleep may occur without apparent warning or daytime drowsiness .
Sedating medications ( such as alcohol or CNS depressants ) , the presence of sleeping disorders , or other medications that increase plasma levels of ropinirole , may increase the risk of somnolence or falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
Before initiating treatment , patients should be advised of the potential of sudden onset of sleep or to develop drowsiness and asked about risk factors they may have .
If a patient develops sudden onset of sleep during activities that require active participation ( e . g . , conversations , eating , etc . ) and / or cannot avoid high - risk activities in the future , Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should ordinarily be discontinued .
( 5 . 1 ) • Syncope , sometimes associated with bradycardia , may occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Symptomatic hypotension ( including postural / orthostatic hypotension ) may occur , especially during dose escalation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Elevation of blood pressure and changes in heart rate may occur .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hallucination may occur .
( 5 . 5 ) • Dyskinesia may be caused or exacerbated .
Decreasing the L - dopa dose may lessen or eliminate this side effect .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living Patients treated with ropinirole have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living , including the operation of motor vehicles , which sometimes resulted in accidents .
Although many of these patients reported somnolence while on ropinirole , some perceived that they had no warning signs such as excessive drowsiness , and believed that they were alert immediately prior to the event .
Some of these events have been reported more than 1 year after initiation of treatment .
Among the 613 patients who received Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets in clinical trials , there were 5 cases of sudden onset of sleep and 2 cases of motor vehicle accident in which it is not known if falling asleep was a contributing factor .
During the 6 - month trial in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , somnolence was reported in 7 % ( 14 of 202 ) of patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets compared with 4 % ( 7 of 191 ) of patients receiving placebo .
During the 36 - week trial in early Parkinson ’ s disease , somnolence was reported in 11 % ( 16 of 140 ) of patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets compared with 15 % ( 22 of 149 ) of patients receiving the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
However , because dose - response was not systematically studied with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , the occurrence of somnolence at the highest recommended doses may be higher than these reported frequencies [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Many clinical experts believe that falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living always occurs in a setting of preexisting somnolence , although patients may not give such a history .
For this reason , prescribers should continually reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness , especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment .
Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities .
Before initiating treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets patients should be advised of the potential to develop drowsiness and specifically asked about factors that may increase the risk with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets such as concomitant sedating medications , the presence of sleep disorders , and concomitant medications that increase ropinirole plasma levels ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation ( e . g . , driving a motor vehicle , conversations , eating , etc . ) , Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should ordinarily be discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration for guidance in discontinuing Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
If a decision is made to continue Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , patients should be advised to not drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities .
There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
5 . 2 Syncope Syncope , sometimes associated with bradycardia , was observed during treatment with ropinirole in Parkinson ’ s disease patients .
In a placebo - controlled study involving patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , syncope occurred in 2 of the 202 patients ( 1 % ) who received Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and in none of the 191 patients who received placebo .
Because the study of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets excluded patients with significant cardiovascular disease , it is not known to what extent the estimated incidence figure applies to patients with Parkinson ’ s disease in clinical practice .
Therefore , patients with significant cardiovascular disease should be treated with caution .
5 . 3 Hypotension Dopamine agonists , in clinical studies and clinical experience , appear to impair the systemic regulation of blood pressure , with resulting postural hypotension , especially during dose escalation .
In addition , patients with Parkinson ’ s disease appear to have an impaired capacity to respond to a postural challenge .
For these reasons , patients being treated with dopaminergic agonists ordinarily ( 1 ) require careful monitoring for signs and symptoms of postural hypotension , especially during dose escalation , and ( 2 ) should be informed of this risk [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 2 ) ] .
In a placebo - controlled trial involving patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , hypotension was reported as an adverse event in 5 of 202 patients ( 2 % ) receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and in none of the 191 patients receiving placebo .
Orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse event in 5 % of patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , and in 1 % of placebo recipients .
An analysis of the randomized , double - blinded , placebo - controlled study in advanced Parkinson ' s disease was conducted using a variety of adverse event terms possibly suggestive of hypotension , including hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , vertigo , and blood pressure decreased .
This analysis showed a higher incidence of these events with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( 7 % , 15 of 202 ) vs . placebo ( 3 % , 6 of 191 ) .
This increased incidence was observed in a setting in which patients were very carefully titrated , and patients with clinically relevant cardiovascular disease or symptomatic orthostatic hypotension at baseline had been excluded from this study .
Orthostatic vital signs ( semi - supine to standing ) were monitored throughout the study in the advanced Parkinson ’ s disease study and changes related to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( compared with placebo ) from baseline were assessed .
The frequency of any orthostatic hypotension at any time during the study was 38 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 31 % for placebo for mild to moderate systolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) , 63 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 58 % for placebo for mild to moderate diastolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 10 mm Hg ) , 10 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 7 % for placebo for severe diastolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) , and 23 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 19 % for placebo for mild to moderate combined systolic and diastolic blood pressure decrements .
Significant decrements in blood pressure unrelated to standing were also reported in some patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 10 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 8 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure decrease ( ≥ 40 mm Hg ) , and was 25 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 21 % for placebo for severe diastolic blood pressure decrease ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) .
The increased incidence for hypotension and / or orthostatic hypotension was observed in both the titration and maintenance phases and in some cases persisted into the maintenance period after developing in the titration phase .
5 . 4 Elevation of Blood Pressure and Changes in Heart Rate In the placebo - controlled study in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , there were no clear effects of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets on average changes in blood pressure or heart rate compared with placebo .
However , there was an increased incidence of patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets who met various outlier criteria , as described below .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 8 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 5 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure increase ( ≥ 40 mm Hg ) .
In the standing position , the frequency was 9 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 6 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure increase ( ≥ 40 mm Hg ) .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 23 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 18 % for placebo for moderate pulse increase ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) , and 19 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 17 % for placebo for moderate pulse decrease ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) .
In the standing position , the frequency was 2 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . < 1 % for placebo for severe pulse increase ( ≥ 30 beats / minute ) , and 24 % for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets vs . 19 % for placebo for moderate pulse decrease ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) .
The increased incidence for various elevations of systolic and / or diastolic blood pressure and / or changes in pulse was observed in both the titration and maintenance phases as well as persisting into the maintenance period after developing in the titration phase .
Elevation of blood pressure and / or changes in heart rate in patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be considered when treating patients with cardiovascular disease .
5 . 5 Hallucination In the double - blind , placebo - controlled , advanced Parkinson ’ s disease trial 8 % ( 17 of 202 ) of patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets reported hallucination compared with 2 % ( 4 of 191 ) patients receiving placebo .
Hallucination led to discontinuation of treatment in 2 % ( 4 of 202 ) of patients on Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and 1 % ( 2 of 191 ) of patients on placebo .
The incidence of hallucination is increased in patients over age 65 .
Coadministration of entacapone and L - dopa with ropinirole may also increase the risk of hallucination .
In a placebo - controlled clinical trial , hallucination occurred in 0 of 43 patients taking entacapone plus L - dopa , in 9 of 155 patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets plus L - dopa ( 6 % ) , and in 7 of 47 patients taking entacapone with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets plus L - dopa ( 15 % ) .
5 . 6 Dyskinesia Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets may potentiate the dopaminergic side effects of L - dopa and may cause and / or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia in patients treated with L - dopa for Parkinson ' s disease .
Decreasing the dose of a dopaminergic drug may ameliorate this side effect .
5 . 7 Major Psychotic Disorders Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets because of the risk of exacerbating the psychosis .
In addition , many treatments for psychosis may decrease the effectiveness of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Events Reported With Dopaminergic Therapy Withdrawal - Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Although not reported during the clinical development of ropinirole , a symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( characterized by elevated temperature , muscular rigidity , altered consciousness , and autonomic instability ) , with no other obvious etiology , has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction , withdrawal of , or changes in dopaminergic therapy .
Therefore , it is recommended that the dose be tapered at the end of treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets as a prophylactic measure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Fibrotic Complications Cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusion , pleural thickening , pericarditis , and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in some patients treated with ergot - derived dopaminergic agents .
While these complications may resolve when the drug is discontinued , complete resolution does not always occur .
Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these compounds , whether other , nonergot - derived dopamine agonists , such as ropinirole tablets or Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets can cause them is unknown .
A small number of reports have been received of possible fibrotic complications , including pleural effusion , pleural fibrosis , interstitial lung disease , and cardiac valvulopathy , in the development program and postmarketing experience for ropinirole .
In the clinical development program ( N = 613 ) , 2 patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets had pleural effusion .
While the evidence is not sufficient to establish a causal relationship between ropinirole and these fibrotic complications , a contribution of ropinirole cannot be completely ruled out in rare cases .
Melanoma Some epidemiologic studies have shown that patients with Parkinson ’ s disease have a higher risk ( perhaps 2 - to 4 - fold higher ) of developing melanoma than the general population .
Whether the observed increased risk was due to Parkinson ’ s disease or other factors , such as drugs used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease , was unclear .
Ropinirole is one of the dopamine agonists used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease .
Although ropinirole has not been associated with an increased risk of melanoma specifically , its potential role as a risk factor has not been systematically studied .
In the clinical development program ( N = 613 ) , one patient treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and also levodopa / carbidopa developed melanoma .
Patients using Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be made aware of these results and undergo periodic dermatologic screening .
5 . 9 Retinal Pathology Human : Because of observations made in albino rats ( see below ) , ocular electroretinogram ( ERG ) assessments were conducted during a 2 - year , double - blind , multicenter , flexible - dose , L - dopa controlled clinical study of immediate - release ropinirole in patients with Parkinson ' s disease .
A total of 156 patients ( 78 on immediate - release ropinirole , mean dose 11 . 9 mg / day and 78 on L - dopa , mean dose 555 . 2 mg / day ) were evaluated for evidence of retinal dysfunction through electroretinograms .
There was no clinically meaningful difference between the treatment groups in retinal function over the duration of the study .
Albino Rats : Retinal degeneration was observed in albino rats in the 2 - year carcinogenicity study at all doses tested ( equivalent to 0 . 6 to 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 24 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) , but was statistically significant at the highest dose ( 50 mg / kg / day ) .
Retinal degeneration was not observed in pigmented rats after 3 months in a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in albino mice , or in 1 - year studies in monkeys or albino rats .
The potential significance of this effect for humans has not been established , but cannot be disregarded because disruption of a mechanism that is universally present in vertebrates ( e . g . , disk shedding ) may be involved .
5 . 10 Binding to Melanin Ropinirole binds to melanin - containing tissues ( i . e . , eyes , skin ) in pigmented rats .
After a single dose , long - term retention of drug was demonstrated , with a half - life in the eye of 20 days .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS • Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and greater than placebo ) in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease with concomitant L - dopa were dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness , hallucination , somnolence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and orthostatic hypotension .
( 6 . 1 ) • Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) in early Parkinson ’ s disease without L - dopa were nausea , somnolence , abdominal pain / discomfort , dizziness , headache , and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Wockhardt USA LLC . , at 1 - 800 - 346 - 6854 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label : • Falling asleep during activities of daily living ( 5 . 1 ) • Syncope ( 5 . 2 ) • Symptomatic hypotension , hypotension , postural / orthostatic hypotension ( 5 . 3 ) • Elevation of blood pressure and changes in heart rate ( 5 . 4 ) • Hallucination ( 5 . 5 ) • Dyskinesia ( 5 . 6 ) • Major psychotic disorders ( 5 . 7 ) • Events with dopaminergic therapy ( 5 . 8 ) • Retinal pathology ( 5 . 9 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug ( or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug ) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During the premarketing development of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease received Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or placebo as adjunctive therapy in 1 clinical trial .
In a second trial , patients with early Parkinson ’ s disease were treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets without L - dopa .
Advanced Parkinson ’ s Disease ( With L - dopa ) The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and numerically greater than placebo ) in the 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial for the treatment of advanced Parkinson ’ s disease during treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets were , in order of decreasing incidence : dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness , hallucination , somnolence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and orthostatic hypotension .
Approximately 6 % of 202 patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets discontinued treatment due to adverse event ( s ) compared with 5 % of 191 patients who received placebo .
The adverse event most commonly causing discontinuation of treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet was hallucination ( 2 % ) .
Table 2 lists adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of at least 2 % ( and were numerically greater than placebo ) in patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets who participated in the 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study .
In this study , either Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or placebo was used as an adjunct to L - dopa .
Adverse reactions were generally mild or moderate in intensity .
Table 2 .
Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reaction Incidence in a Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Trial in Advanced Stage Parkinson ’ s Disease ( With L - dopa ) ( Events ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and > % with Placebo ) * Dose - related .
Body System / Adverse Reaction Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( n = 202 ) % Placebo ( n = 191 ) % Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo 4 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 11 4 Constipation 4 2 Abdominal pain / discomfort 6 3 Diarrhea 3 2 Dry Mouth 2 < 1 General disorders Edema peripheral 4 1 Injury , poisoning , and procedural complications Fall * 2 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 3 2 Nervous system disorders Dyskinesia * 13 3 Dizziness 8 3 Somnolence 7 4 Psychiatric disorders Hallucination 8 2 Anxiety 2 1 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 5 1 Hypotension 2 0 Hypertension * 3 2 Although this study was not designed for optimally characterizing dose - related adverse reactions , there was a suggestion ( based upon comparison of incidence of adverse reactions across dose ranges for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and placebo ) that the incidence for dyskinesia , hypertension , and fall was dose - related to Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
The incidence for many adverse reactions with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets treatment was increased relative to placebo ( i . e . , Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets % - Placebo % = treatment difference ≥ 2 % ) in either the titration or maintenance phases of the study .
During the titration phase , an increased incidence ( shown in descending order of % treatment difference ) was observed for dyskinesia , nausea , abdominal pain / discomfort , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , vertigo , hypertension , peripheral edema , and dry mouth .
During the maintenance phase , an increased incidence was observed for dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness , hallucination , somnolence , fall , hypertension , abnormal dreams , constipation , chest pain , bronchitis , and nasopharyngitis .
Some adverse reactions developing in the titration phase persisted ( ≥ 7 days ) into the maintenance phase .
These " persistent " adverse reactions included dyskinesia , hallucination , orthostatic hypotension , and dry mouth .
The incidence of adverse reactions was not clearly different between women and men .
Early Parkinson ’ s Disease ( Without L - dopa ) The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in the 36 - week early Parkinson ’ s disease trial during treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets were , in order of decreasing incidence : nausea ( 19 % ) , somnolence ( 11 % ) , abdominal pain / discomfort ( 7 % ) , dizziness ( 6 % ) , headache ( 6 % ) , and constipation ( 5 % ) .
The type of adverse reactions and the frequency ( i . e . incidence ) with which they occurred were generally similar over the whole treatment period in this study of early Parkinson ' s disease patients who were initially treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets and subsequently crossed over to treatment with the other formulation .
During the titration phase , an increased incidence with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets compared with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets ( i . e . , Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets % - immediate - release ropinirole tablets % = treatment difference ≥ 2 % ) , shown in descending order of % treatment difference , was observed for : constipation , hallucination , vertigo , abdominal pain / discomfort , nausea , vomiting , fall , headache , diarrhea , pyrexia , and flatulence .
During the maintenance phase , an increased incidence was observed for fall , myalgia , and sleep disorder .
Several adverse reactions developing in the titration phase persisted ( ≥ 7 days ) into the maintenance phase .
These " persistent " adverse reactions included : constipation , hallucination , muscle spasms , flatulence , insomnia , sleep disorder , abdominal pain / discomfort , cough , and nasopharyngitis .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Development of the Immediate - Release Formulation of Ropinirole Tablets for Parkinson ’ s Disease ( Advanced and Early ) Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug ( or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug ) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In patients with advanced Parkinson ' s disease who were treated with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % treatment difference from placebo ; presented in order of decreasing treatment difference frequency ) were dyskinesia ( 21 % ) , somnolence ( 12 % ) , nausea ( 12 % ) , dizziness ( 10 % ) , confusion ( 7 % ) , hallucinations ( 6 % ) , headache ( 5 % ) , and increased sweating ( 5 % ) .
In patients with early Parkinson ' s disease who were treated with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets , the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % treatment difference from placebo ; presented in order of decreasing treatment difference frequency ) were nausea ( 38 % ) , somnolence ( 34 % ) , dizziness ( 18 % ) , syncope ( 11 % ) , viral infection ( 8 % ) , fatigue ( 7 % ) , leg edema ( 6 % ) , asthenia ( 5 % ) , and dyspepsia ( 5 % ) .
7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP1A2 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole .
Thus inhibitors ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin , fluvoxamine ) or inducers ( e . g . , omeprazole or smoking ) of CYP1A2 may alter the clearance of ropinirole .
Adjustment of dosage of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets may be required .
( 7 . 1 ) • Higher doses of estrogens , usually associated with hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) , reduced oral clearance of ropinirole .
Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require adjustment of dosage of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
( 7 . 3 ) • Dopamine antagonists , such as neuroleptics ( e . g . , phenothiazines , butyrophenones , thioxanthenes ) or metoclopramide , may diminish effectiveness of ropinirole .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 P450 Interaction In vitro metabolism studies showed that CYP1A2 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole .
There is thus the potential for inducers or inhibitors of this enzyme to alter the clearance of ropinirole .
Therefore , if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole , adjustment of the dose of ropinirole may be required .
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin , an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , with immediate - release ropinirole increased the AUC of ropinirole by 84 % on average and Cmax by 60 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking .
In one study in patients with Restless Legs Syndrome , cigarette smokers had an approximate 30 % lower Cmax and a 38 % lower AUC than did nonsmokers , when those parameters were normalized for dose .
There is no evidence of interaction between ropinirole and other CYP1A2 substrates ( e . g . , theophylline ) .
Ropinirole and its circulating metabolites do not inhibit or induce P450 enzymes therefore ropinirole is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs by a P450 mechanism [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 L - dopa Coadministration of carbidopa + L - dopa ( SINEMET ® * ) with immediate - release ropinirole had no effect on the steady - state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole .
Oral administration of immediate - release ropinirole increased mean steady - state Cmax of L - dopa by 20 % , but its AUC was unaffected [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens ( usually associated with hormone replacement therapy [ HRT ] ) reduced the oral clearance of ropinirole by approximately 35 % .
Dosage adjustment is not needed for initiating Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets in patients on estrogen therapy because patients are individually titrated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets to tolerance or adequate effect .
If estrogen therapy is stopped or started during treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets then adjustment of the dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets may be required .
7 . 4 Dopamine Antagonists Since ropinirole is a dopamine agonist , it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics ( e . g . , phenothiazines , butyrophenones , thioxanthenes ) or metoclopramide may diminish the effectiveness of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Patients with a history or presence of major psychotic disorders should be treated with dopamine agonists only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies using ropinirole in pregnant women .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
In animal reproduction studies , ropinirole has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo - fetal development , including teratogenic effects .
Treatment of pregnant rats with ropinirole during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal body weight , increased fetal death , and digital malformations at 24 , 36 , and 60 times the MRHD , respectively .
The combined administration of ropinirole at 8 times the MRHD and a clinically relevant dose of L - dopa to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis produced a greater incidence and severity of fetal malformations ( primarily digit defects ) than were seen in the offspring of rabbits treated with L - dopa alone .
In a perinatal - postnatal study in rats , impaired growth and development of nursing offspring and altered neurological development of female offspring were observed when dams were treated with 4 times the MRHD .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ropinirole inhibits prolactin secretion in humans and could potentially inhibit lactation .
Ropinirole has been detected in the milk of lactating rats .
Although many drugs are excreted in human milk , transfer of ropinirole into human milk has not been demonstrated .
Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of ropinirole to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Dosage adjustment is not necessary in the elderly ( above 65 years ) , as the dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet is to be individually titrated to clinical response [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pharmacokinetic studies conducted in patients demonstrated that oral clearance of ropinirole is reduced by 15 % in patients above 65 years of age compared to younger patients .
Of the total number of patients who participated in clinical trials of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for Parkinson ’ s disease , 387 patients were 65 and over and 107 patients were 75 and over .
Among patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , hallucination was more common in elderly subjects ( 10 % ) compared with non - elderly subjects ( 2 % ) .
The incidence of overall adverse events increased with increasing age for both patients receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and placebo .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment of ropinirole is needed in patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL / min ) .
The use of ropinirole in patients with severe renal impairment has not been studied .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
Since patients with hepatic impairment may have higher plasma levels and lower clearance , ropinirole should be titrated with caution in these patients .
9 .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Ropinirole is not a controlled substance .
9 . 3 Dependence Animal studies and human clinical trials with ropinirole did not reveal any potential for drug - seeking behavior or physical dependence .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Human Overdose Experience In the Parkinson ' s disease program , there have been patients who accidentally or intentionally took more than their prescribed dose of ropinirole .
The largest overdose reported with immediate - release ropinirole in clinical trials was 435 mg taken over a 7 - day period ( 62 . 1 mg / day ) .
Of patients who received a dose greater than 24 mg / day , reported symptoms included adverse events commonly reported during dopaminergic therapy ( nausea , dizziness ) , as well as visual hallucination , hyperhidrosis , claustrophobia , chorea , palpitations , asthenia , and nightmares .
Additional symptoms reported for doses of 24 mg or less or for overdoses of unknown amount included vomiting , increased coughing , fatigue , syncope , vasovagal syncope , dyskinesia , agitation , chest pain , orthostatic hypotension , somnolence , and confusional state .
10 . 2 Overdose Management The symptoms of overdose with ropinirole are generally related to its dopaminergic activity ; these symptoms may be alleviated by appropriate treatment with dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics or metoclopramide .
General supportive measures are recommended .
Vital signs should be maintained , if necessary .
Removal of any unabsorbed material ( e . g . , by gastric lavage ) may be considered .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Ropinirole hydrochloride is an orally administered non - ergoline dopamine agonist .
It is supplied as the hydrochloride salt of ropinirole 4 - [ 2 - ( dipropylamino ) ethyl ] - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 H - indol - 2 - one and has an empirical formula of C16H24N2O • HCl .
The molecular weight is 296 . 84 ( 260 . 38 as the free base ) .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ropinirole hydrochloride is a white to cream crystalline powder solid with a melting range of 241 ° to 245 ° C and soluble in water and methanol , very slightly soluble in ethyl alcohol .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are formulated as film coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are available in 2 mg ( pink ) , 4 mg ( light brown ) , 6 mg ( white ) , 8 mg ( brown ) and 12 mg ( green ) .
Each tablet contains 2 . 28 mg , 4 . 56 mg , 6 . 84 mg , 9 . 12 mg , and 13 . 68 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to ropinirole 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , and 12 mg , respectively .
Inactive ingredients consist of carboxy methyl cellulose sodium , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethyl cellulose , hydrogenated castor oil , hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose 2910 , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , polyethylene glycol 400 , pregelatinized starch , povidone , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 2 mg also contains iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 4 mg also contains iron oxide yellow , iron oxide red and iron oxide black .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 8 mg also contains iron oxide red and FD & C blue # 2 .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 12 mg also contains iron oxide yellow and FD & C blue # 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ropinirole is a non - ergoline dopamine agonist with high relative in vitro specificity and full intrinsic activity at the D2 and D3 dopamine receptor subtypes , binding with higher affinity to D3 than to D2 or D4 receptor subtypes .
Ropinirole has moderate in vitro affinity for opioid receptors .
Ropinirole and its metabolites have negligible in vitro affinity for dopamine D1 , 5 - HT1 , 5 - HT2 , benzodiazepine , GABA , muscarinic , alpha1 - , alpha2 - , and beta - adrenoreceptors .
The precise mechanism of action of ropinirole as a treatment for Parkinson ’ s disease is unknown , although it is believed to be due to stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine D2 - type receptors within the caudate - putamen in the brain .
This conclusion is supported by studies that show that ropinirole improves motor function in various animal models of Parkinson ’ s disease .
In particular , ropinirole attenuates the motor deficits induced by lesioning the ascending nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway with the neurotoxin 1 - methyl - 4 - phenyl - 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine ( MPTP ) in primates .
The relevance of D3 receptor binding in Parkinson ’ s disease is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical experience with dopamine agonists , including ropinirole , suggests an association with impaired ability to regulate blood pressure with resulting postural hypotension , especially during dose escalation .
In some subjects in clinical trials , blood pressure changes were associated with the emergence of orthostatic symptoms , bradycardia , and , in one case in a healthy volunteer , transient sinus arrest with syncope .
The mechanism of postural hypotension induced by ropinirole is presumed to be due to a D2 - mediated blunting of the noradrenergic response to standing and subsequent decrease in peripheral vascular resistance .
Nausea is a common concomitant symptom of orthostatic signs and symptoms .
At oral doses as low as 0 . 2 mg , ropinirole suppressed serum prolactin concentrations in healthy male volunteers .
Immediate - release ropinirole had no dose - related effect on ECG wave form and rhythm in young , healthy , male volunteers in the range of 0 . 01 to 2 . 5 mg .
Immediate - release ropinirole had no dose - or exposure - related effect on mean QT intervals in healthy male and female volunteers titrated to doses up to 4 mg / day .
The effect of ropinirole on QT intervals at higher exposures achieved either due to drug interactions , hepatic impairment , or at higher doses has not been systematically evaluated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In clinical studies with immediate - release ropinirole , over 88 % of a radiolabeled dose was recovered in urine , and the absolute bioavailability was 45 % to 55 % , indicating approximately 50 % first - pass effect .
Ropinirole displayed linear kinetics up to doses of 24 mg / day ( 8 mg immediate - release , 3 times a day ) .
Increase in systemic exposure of ropinirole following oral administration of 2 to 12 mg of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet was approximately dose - proportional .
For Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , steady - state concentrations of ropinirole are expected to be achieved within 4 days of dosing .
Relative bioavailability of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets compared with immediate - release tablet was approximately 100 % .
In a repeat - dose study in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease using Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets 8 mg , the dose - normalized AUC ( 0 - 24 ) and Cmin for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and immediate - release ropinirole were similar .
Dose - normalized Cmax was , on average , 12 % lower for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets than for the immediate - release formulation and the median time - to - peak concentration was 6 to 10 hours .
In a single - dose study , administration of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets to healthy volunteers with food ( i . e . , high - fat meal ) increased AUC by approximately 30 % and Cmax by approximately 44 % , compared with dosing under fasted conditions .
In a repeat - dose study in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease , food ( i . e . , high - fat meal ) increased AUC by approximately 20 % and Cmax by approximately 44 % ; Tmax was prolonged by 3 hours ( median prolongation ) compared with dosing under fasted conditions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Ropinirole is widely distributed throughout the body , with an apparent volume of distribution of 7 . 5 L / kg ( cv = 32 % ) .
It is up to 40 % bound to plasma proteins and has a blood - to - plasma ratio of 1 : 1 .
Metabolism Ropinirole is extensively metabolized by the liver .
The major metabolic pathways are N - despropylation and hydroxylation to form the inactive N - despropyl metabolite and hydroxy metabolites .
The N - despropyl metabolite is converted to carbamyl glucuronide , carboxylic acid , and N - despropyl hydroxy metabolites .
The hydroxy metabolite of ropinirole is rapidly glucuronidated .
In vitro studies indicate that the major cytochrome P450 isozyme involved in the metabolism of ropinirole is CYP1A2 , an enzyme known to be induced by smoking and omeprazole , and inhibited by , for example , fluvoxamine , mexiletine , and the older fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin .
Elimination The clearance of ropinirole after oral administration to patients is 47 L / hr ( cv = 45 % ) and its elimination half - life is approximately 6 hours .
Less than 10 % of the administered dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine .
N - despropyl ropinirole is the predominant metabolite found in urine ( 40 % ) , followed by the carboxylic acid metabolite ( 10 % ) , and the glucuronide of the hydroxy metabolite ( 10 % ) .
Drug Interactions Ciprofloxacin Coadministration of ciprofloxacin ( 500 mg twice daily ) , an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , with immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg 3 times daily ) increased ropinirole AUC by 84 % on average and Cmax by 60 % ( n = 12 patients ) .
Digoxin Coadministration of immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg 3 times daily ) with digoxin ( 0 . 125 to 0 . 25 mg once daily ) did not alter the steady - state pharmacokinetics of digoxin in 10 patients .
Theophylline Administration of theophylline ( 300 mg twice daily , a substrate of CYP1A2 ) did not alter the steady - state pharmacokinetics of immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg 3 times daily ) in 12 patients with Parkinson ’ s disease .
Immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg 3 times daily ) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of theophylline ( 5 mg / kg IV ) in 12 patients with Parkinson ’ s disease .
L - dopa Coadministration of carbidopa + L - dopa ( SINEMET 10 / 100 mg twice daily ) with immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg 3 times daily ) had no effect on the steady - state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole ( n = 28 patients ) .
Oral administration of immediate - release ropinirole 2 mg 3 times daily increased mean steady - state Cmax of L - dopa by 20 % , but its AUC was unaffected ( n = 23 patients ) .
Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens ( usually associated with hormone replacement therapy [ HRT ] ) reduced the oral clearance of ropinirole by approximately 35 % .
Commonly Administered Drugs Population analysis showed that commonly administered drugs , e . g . , selegiline , amantadine , tricyclic antidepressants , benzodiazepines , ibuprofen , thiazides , antihistamines , and anticholinergics , did not affect the oral clearance of ropinirole .
Population Subgroups Because therapy with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are initiated at a low dose and gradually titrated upward according to clinical tolerability to obtain the optimum therapeutic effect , adjustment of the initial dose based on gender , weight , or age is not necessary .
Age Oral clearance of ropinirole is reduced by approximately 15 % in patients above 65 years of age compared with younger patients .
Dosage adjustment is not necessary in the elderly ( above 65 years ) , as the dose of ropinirole is individually titrated to clinical response .
Gender Female and male patients showed similar oral clearance .
Race The influence of race on the pharmacokinetics of ropinirole has not been evaluated .
Renal Impairment Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , no difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of ropinirole in patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 30 to 50 mL / min ) compared with an age - matched population with creatinine clearance above 50 mL / min .
Therefore , no dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment .
The use of ropinirole in patients with severe renal impairment has not been studied .
The effect of hemodialysis on ropinirole clearance is not known , but because of the relatively high apparent volume of distribution of ropinirole ( 7 . 5 L / kg ) , significant removal of ropinirole by hemodialysis is unlikely .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
These patients may have higher plasma levels and lower clearance of ropinirole than patients with normal hepatic function .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be titrated with caution in this population .
Other Diseases Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed no change in the oral clearance of ropinirole in patients with concomitant diseases such as hypertension , depression , osteoporosis / arthritis , and insomnia compared with patients who had Parkinson ’ s disease only .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in Charles River CD - 1 mice at doses of 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day and in Sprague - Dawley rats at doses of 1 . 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day ( top doses which , based on mg / m2 , are equivalent to 10 and 20 times , respectively , the MRHD of 24 mg / day ) .
In the male rat , there was a significant increase in testicular Leydig cell adenomas at all doses tested , i . e . , ≥ 1 . 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
This finding is of questionable significance because the endocrine mechanisms believed to be involved in the production of Leydig cell hyperplasia and adenomas in rats are not relevant to humans .
In the female mouse , there was an increase in benign uterine endometrial polyps at a dose of 50 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Ropinirole was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the in vitro Ames test , the in vitro chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , the in vitro mouse lymphoma ( L1578Y cells ) assay , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
When administered to female rats prior to and during mating and throughout pregnancy , ropinirole caused disruption of implantation at doses of 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater .
This effect is thought to be due to the prolactin - lowering effect of ropinirole .
In humans , chorionic gonadotropin , not prolactin , is essential for implantation .
In rat studies using low doses ( 5 mg / kg ) during the prolactin - dependent phase of early pregnancy ( gestation days 0 to 8 ) , ropinirole did not affect female fertility at dosages up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No effect on male fertility was observed in rats at dosages up to 125 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets in the treatment of early and advanced Parkinson ’ s disease was initially established in 3 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
The effectiveness of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets in the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease was supported by 2 randomized , double - blind , multicenter clinical trials and clinical pharmacokinetic considerations .
One trial conducted in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease patients compared Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with placebo as adjunctive therapy to L - dopa .
A second trial compared Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with ropinirole immediate - release tablets in early phase Parkinson ’ s disease patients not receiving L - dopa .
In these studies a variety of measures were used to assess the effects of treatment ( e . g . , patient diaries recording time " on " and " off , " tolerability of L - dopa dose reductions , and the Unified Parkinson ’ s Disease Rating Scale [ UPDRS ] scores ) .
The UPDRS is a multi - item rating scale evaluating mentation ( Part I ) , activities of daily living ( Part II ) , motor performance ( Part III ) , and complications of therapy ( Part IV ) .
Part III of the UPDRS contains 14 items designed to assess the severity of the cardinal motor findings in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , bradykinesia , postural instability , etc . ) scored for different body regions and has a maximum ( worst ) score of 108 .
14 . 1 Study in Patients With Advanced Parkinson ’ s Disease ( With L - dopa ) The effectiveness of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets as adjunctive therapy to L - dopa in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease was established in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group , 24 - week clinical trial in 393 patients ( Hoehn & Yahr criteria Stages II - IV ) who were not adequately controlled by L - dopa therapy .
Patients were allowed to be on concomitant selegiline , amantadine , anticholinergics , and catechol - O - methyltransferase ( COMT ) inhibitors provided the doses were stable for at least 4 weeks prior to screening and throughout the trial .
The primary efficacy endpoint evaluated was the mean change from baseline in total awake time spent " off " .
Patients in this study had a mean disease duration of 8 . 6 years , a mean duration of exposure to L - dopa of 6 . 5 years , had experienced a minimum of 3 hours awake time " off " with a baseline average of approximately 7 hours awake time " off " , and had a mean baseline UPDRS motor score of approximately 30 points with similar mean data in each treatment group .
The mean baseline dose of L - dopa in the group receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet was 824 mg / day and 776 mg / day for the placebo group .
Patients initiated treatment at 2 mg / day for 1 week followed by increases of 2 mg / day at weekly intervals to a minimum dose of 6 mg / day .
The following week , the Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets total daily dose could be further increased ( based upon therapeutic response and tolerability ) to 8 mg / day .
Once a daily dose of 8 mg / day was reached , the background L - dopa dosage was reduced .
Thereafter , the daily dose could be increased by up to 4 mg / day approximately every 2 weeks until an optimal dose was achieved ( based upon therapeutic response and tolerability ) .
The mean dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets at the end of Week 24 was 18 . 8 mg / day .
Dose titrations were based upon the degree of symptom control , planned L - dopa dosage reduction , and / or tolerability .
The maximal allowed daily dosage for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet was 24 mg / day .
The primary efficacy endpoint was mean change from baseline in total awake time spent " off " at Week 24 .
At baseline the mean total awake time spent " off " was approximately 7 hours in each treatment group .
At Week 24 , the total awake time spent " off " , on average , had decreased by approximately 2 hours in the group receiving Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and by approximately half an hour in the placebo group .
The adjusted mean difference in total awake time spent " off " between Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and placebo was - 1 . 7 hours , which was statistically significant ( ANCOVA , p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Results for this endpoint showing the statistical superiority of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets over Placebo are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Change from Baseline in Total Awake Time Spent " Off " at Week 24 Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( n = 201 ) Placebo ( n = 190 ) Mean “ Off ” time at Baseline ( hours ) 7 . 0 7 . 0 Mean Change from Baseline in “ Off ” time ( hours ) - 2 . 1 - 0 . 4 The difference between groups in favor of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , with regard to a decrease in total " off " hours , was primarily related to an increase in total " on " hours without troublesome dyskinesia .
Patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets had a mean reduction in L - dopa dose of 278 mg / day ( 34 % ) while patients treated with placebo had a mean reduction of 164 mg / day ( 21 % ) .
In patients who reduced their L - dopa dose , reduction was sustained in 93 % of patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and in 72 % of patients treated with placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
14 . 2 Study in Patients With Early Parkinson ’ s Disease ( Without L - dopa ) A 36 - week multicenter , double - blind , titration / 3 - period maintenance , cross - over study compared the efficacy of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets in 161 patients with early phase Parkinson ’ s disease ( Hoehn & Yahr Stages I - III ) with limited prior exposure to L - dopa or dopamine agonists .
Eligible subjects were randomized ( 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ) to 4 treatment sequences ( 2 were titrated on immediate - release ropinirole tablets and 2 on Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ) .
The immediate - release ropinirole tablets titration was slower in rate than that of the Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Patients were titrated , during the 12 - week titration period , to their optimal dosage , based upon tolerance and therapeutic response .
This was followed by 3 consecutive 8 - week maintenance periods , during which patients were either maintained on the prior formulation or switched to the alternative formulation .
All switches were performed overnight by using the approximately equivalent doses of ropinirole .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change of UPDRS motor score within each maintenance period .
Patients in all 4 groups started out with similar UPDRS motor scores ( about 21 ) at baseline .
All 4 groups exhibited similar improvement in UPDRS total motor scores from baseline until the completion of the titration phase , with a change in score of about - 9 observed for the groups started on immediate - release ropinirole tablets and of about - 10 for the groups started on Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
No difference was observed between groups when switches were made between identical formulations or between different formulations .
This suggests therapeutic dosage equivalence between immediate - release ropinirole tablets and Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets formulations .
The optimal daily dose at the end of the titration period for patients on immediate - release ropinirole tablet was substantially lower ( mean 7 mg ) compared to the dose at the end of the titration period for patients on Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ( mean 18 mg ) .
In this study , the marked difference in the final optimal dosages suggests that the higher doses afforded no additional benefit when compared to the lower doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each biconvex , circular - shaped , film - coated tablet contains ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to the labeled amount of ropinirole as follows : ● 2 mg Pink , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 771 one side and plain on other side , in bottle of 30 ( NDC 64679 - 771 - 01 ) , 90 ( NDC 64679 - 771 - 02 ) , 100 ( NDC 64679 - 771 - 05 ) , 500 ( NDC 64679 - 771 - 03 ) and Unit dose packages of 100 ( NDC 64679 - 771 - 04 ) .
● 4 mg Light brown , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on one side and plain on other side , in bottle of 30 ( NDC 64679 - 773 - 01 ) , 773 90 ( NDC 64679 - 773 - 02 ) , 100 ( NDC 64679 - 773 - 05 ) , 500 ( NDC 64679 - 773 - 03 ) and Unit dose packages of 100 ( NDC 64679 - 773 - 04 ) .
● 6 mg White , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 776 one side and plain on other side , in bottle of 30 ( NDC 64679 - 776 - 01 ) , 90 ( NDC 64679 - 776 - 02 ) , 100 ( NDC 64679 - 776 - 05 ) , 500 ( NDC 64679 - 776 - 03 ) and Unit dose packages of 100 ( NDC 64679 - 776 - 04 ) .
● 8 mg Brown , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 774 one side and plain on other side , in bottle of 30 ( NDC 64679 - 774 - 01 ) , 90 ( NDC 64679 - 774 - 02 ) , 100 ( NDC 64679 - 774 - 05 ) , 500 ( NDC 64679 - 774 - 03 ) and Unit dose packages of 100 ( NDC 64679 - 774 - 04 ) .
● 12 mg Green , coated , circular shaped tablets with beveled edge , debossed with ‘ W ’ on 775 one side and plain on other side , in bottle of 30 ( NDC 64679 - 775 - 01 ) , 90 ( NDC 64679 - 775 - 02 ) , 100 ( NDC 64679 - 775 - 05 ) , 500 ( NDC 64679 - 775 - 03 ) and Unit dose packages of 100 ( NDC 64679 - 775 - 04 ) .
Storage : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 9 ) Physicians should instruct their patients to read the Patient Information leaflet before starting therapy with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and to reread it upon prescription renewal for new information regarding the use of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
17 . 1 Dosing Instructions • Patients should be instructed to take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets only as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , patients should be advised not to double their next dose .
• Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets can be taken with or without food .
Taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with food may reduce the occurrence of nausea [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should be swallowed whole .
They should not be chewed , crushed , or divided [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Ropinirole is the active ingredient that is in both Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and ropinirole tablets ( the immediate - release formulation ) .
Ask your patient if they are taking another medication containing ropinirole .
17 . 2 Postural ( Orthostatic ) Hypotension Patients should be advised that they may develop postural ( orthostatic ) hypotension with or without symptoms such as dizziness , nausea , syncope , and sometimes sweating .
Hypotension and / or orthostatic symptoms may occur more frequently during initial therapy or with an increase in dose at any time ( cases have been seen after weeks of treatment ) .
Accordingly , patients should be cautioned against standing up rapidly after sitting or lying down , especially if they have been doing so for prolonged periods , and especially at the initiation of treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 3 Elevation of Blood Pressure and Changes in Heart Rate Patients should be alerted to the possibility of increases in blood pressure during treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Exacerbation of hypertension may occur .
Medication dose adjustment may be necessary if elevation of blood pressure is sustained over multiple evaluations .
Patients with cardiovascular disease , who may not tolerate marked changes in heart rate , should also be alerted to the possibility that they may experience significant increases or decreases in heart rate during treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 4 Sedating Effects Patients should be alerted to the potential sedating effects caused by Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , including somnolence and the possibility of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
Since somnolence is a frequent adverse reaction with potentially serious consequences , patients should neither drive a car nor engage in other potentially dangerous activities until they have gained sufficient experience with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets to gauge whether or not it affects their mental and / or motor performance adversely .
Patients should be advised that if increased somnolence or episodes of falling asleep during activities of daily living ( e . g . , conversations , eating , driving a motor vehicle , etc . ) are experienced at any time during treatment , they should not drive or participate in potentially dangerous activities until they have contacted their physician .
Because of possible additive effects , caution should be advised when patients are taking other sedating medications , alcohol , or other CNS depressants ( e . g . , benzodiazepines , antipsychotics , antidepressants , etc . ) in combination with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or when taking concomitant medications that increase plasma levels of ropinirole ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 5 Hallucinations Patients should be informed they may experience hallucinations ( unreal visions , sounds , or sensations ) while taking ropinirole .
The elderly are at greater risk than younger patients with Parkinson ' s disease ; and the risk is greater in patients who are taking ropinirole with L - dopa or taking higher doses of ropinirole , and may also be further increased in patients taking any other drugs that increase dopaminergic tone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 6 Impulse Control Symptoms Including Compulsive Behaviors There have been reports of patients experiencing intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , and other intense urges and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications that increase central dopaminergic tone , that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease or Restless Legs Syndrome , including ropinirole .
In the clinical development program ( N = 613 ) , 6 patients treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets exhibited compulsive behaviors consisting of pathological gambling and / or hyper - sexuality .
Although it is not proven that the medications caused these events , these urges were reported to have stopped in some cases when the dose was reduced or the medication was stopped .
Prescribers should ask patients about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges or other urges while being treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Patients should inform their physician if they experience new or increased gambling urges , increased sexual urges or other intense urges while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
17 . 7 Nursing Mothers .
Because of the possibility that ropinirole may be excreted in breast milk , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should be advised that ropinirole could inhibit lactation , as ropinirole inhibits prolactin secretion .
17 . 8 Pregnancy .
Because ropinirole has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo - fetal development , including teratogenic effects , in animals , and because experience in humans is limited , patients should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 9 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Patient labeling is provided as a tear - off leaflet at the end of this full prescribing information .
Physicians should instruct their patients to read the Patient Information leaflet before starting therapy with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets and to reread it upon prescription renewal for new information regarding the use of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
* SINEMET is a registered trademark of Merck & co . , Inc , Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limted Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Iss .
150512 PHARMACIST - DETACH HERE AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO PATIENT PATIENT INFORMATION Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets IF YOU HAVE PARKINSON ' S DISEASE , READ THIS IMPORTANT NOTE : Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet has not been studied in Restless Legs Syndrome ( RLS ) and is not approved for the treatment of RLS .
However , an immediate - release form of ropinirole is approved for the treatment of RLS .
Read this information completely before you start taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Read the information each time you get more medicine .
There may be new information .
This leaflet provides a summary about ropinirole tablets and Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
It does not include everything there is to know about your medicine .
This information should not take the place of discussions with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
What are Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet is a long - acting prescription medicine containing ropinirole ( taken once a day ) used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease .
You should not be taking more than one medicine containing ropinirole .
Inform your physician if you are taking any other medicine containing ropinirole .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets have not been studied in children .
What is the most important information I should know about Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets can cause serious side effects including : • Falling asleep during normal activities .
You may fall asleep while doing normal activities such as driving a car , doing physical tasks , or using hazardous machinery while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
You may suddenly fall asleep without being drowsy or without warning .
This may result in having accidents .
Your chances of falling asleep while doing normal activities while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are greater if you take other medicines that cause drowsiness .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if this happens .
Before starting Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , be sure to tell your healthcare provider if you take any medicines that make you drowsy .
• Changes in blood pressure .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets can decrease or increase your blood pressure .
Lowering of your blood pressure is of special concern .
If you faint , feel dizzy , nauseated , or sweaty when you stand up from sitting or lying down , this may mean that your blood pressure is decreased .
If you notice this , you should contact your healthcare provider .
Also , when changing position from lying down or sitting to standing up , you should do it carefully and slowly .
Lowering of your blood pressure can happen especially when you start taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or when your dose is increased .
• Fainting .
Fainting can occur , and sometimes your heart rate may be decreased .
This can happen especially when you start taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or your dose is increased .
Tell your healthcare provider if you faint or feel dizzy .
• Hallucinations ( unreal visions , sounds , or sensations ) can occur in patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
The chances of having hallucinations are higher in patients with Parkinson ' s disease who are elderly , taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with other Parkinson ’ s disease drugs , or taking higher doses of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
If you have hallucinations , talk with your healthcare provider .
• Uncontrolled sudden movements .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets may cause uncontrolled sudden movements or make such movements you already have worse or more frequent .
Tell your healthcare provider if this happens .
The doses of your anti - Parkinson ’ s medicines may need to be changed .
Unusual urges .
Some patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets get urges to behave in a way unusual for them .
Examples of this are an unusual urge to gamble or increased sexual urges and behaviors .
If you notice or your family notices that you are developing any unusual behaviors , talk to your healthcare provider .
See " What are the possible side effects of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ? "
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
Be sure to tell your healthcare provider if you : • have daytime sleepiness from a sleep disorder or have unexpected or unpredictable sleepiness or periods of sleep .
• are taking any other prescription or over - the - counter medicines .
Some of these medicines may increase your chances of getting side effects while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
• start or stop taking other medicines while you are taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
This may increase your chances of getting side effects .
• start or stop smoking while you are taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Smoking may decrease the treatment effect of ropinirole hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• feel dizzy , nauseated , sweaty , or faint when you first stand up from sitting or lying down .
• drink alcoholic beverages .
This may increase your chances of becoming drowsy or sleepy while taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
• have high or low blood pressure .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should only be used during pregnancy if needed .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider to decide whether you will breastfeed or take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
• are allergic to any of the ingredients in Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
How should I take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for Parkinson ' s disease ?
• Take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets exactly as directed by your healthcare provider .
• Do not suddenly stop taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets without talking to your healthcare provider .
If you stop this medicine suddenly , you may develop fever , confusion , or severe muscle stiffness .
• Before starting Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets , you should talk to your healthcare provider about what to do if you miss a dose .
If you have missed the previous dose and it is time for your next dose , do not double the dose .
• Your healthcare provider will start you on a low dose of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
Your healthcare provider will change the dose until you are taking the right amount of medicine to control your symptoms .
It may take several weeks before you reach a dose that controls your symptoms .
If you are taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets : • Take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets 1 time each day for Parkinson ’ s disease , preferably at or around the same time of day .
• Swallow Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets whole .
Do not chew , crush , or split Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets .
If you are taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets : • Contact your healthcare provider if you stop taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for any reason .
Do not restart without talking with your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may prescribe Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets alone , or add Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets to medicine that you are already taking for Parkinson ' s disease .
• You should not substitute ropinirole tablets for Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets or Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for ropinirole tablets without talking with your healthcare provider .
• You can take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with or without food .
If you experience nausea you may try taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with food .
What are the possible side effects of Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
Serious side effects in people taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets are described in the section " Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets can cause serious side effects including " and include : • Falling asleep during normal activities • Changes in blood pressure • Fainting • Hallucinations • Uncontrolled sudden movements Some patients taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets get urges to behave in a way unusual for them .
Examples of this are an unusual urge to gamble or increased sexual urges and behaviors .
If you notice or your family notices that you are developing any unusual behaviors , talk to your healthcare provider .
You should be careful until you know if Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets affects your ability to remain alert while doing normal daily activities , driving a car , operating machinery , or working at heights .
You should also watch for the development of significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep .
Common side effects in people taking Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets include : • Fainting • Sleepiness • Hallucinations • Dizziness • Nausea or vomiting • Uncontrolled sudden movements • Leg swelling • Fatigue • Headache • Upset stomach • Increased sweating This is not a complete list of side effects and should not take the place of discussions with your healthcare providers .
Your healthcare provider or pharmacist can give you a more complete list of possible side effects .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
• Store Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets at 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
• Store Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets at room temperature out of direct sunlight .
• Keep Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets in a tightly closed container .
• Keep Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets out of the reach of children .
Other Information about Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets : • Do not share Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets with other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
• Studies of people with Parkinson ’ s disease show that they may be at an increased risk of developing melanoma , a form of skin cancer , when compared to people without Parkinson ’ s disease .
It is not known if this problem is associated with Parkinson ’ s disease or the medicines used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet is of the medicines used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease , therefore , patients being treated with Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets should have periodic skin examinations .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for Parkinson ’ s disease .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in this leaflet .
Do not take Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
For more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
They can give you information about Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information call 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or visit www . fda . gov / medwatch .
What are the ingredients in Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets ?
The following ingredients are in Ropinirole Extended - release Tablets : Active ingredient : ropinirole ( as ropinirole hydrochloride ) Inactive ingredients : carboxy methyl cellulose sodium , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethyl cellulose , hydrogenated castor oil , hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose 2910 , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , polyethylene glycol 400 , pregelatinized starch , povidone , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 2 mg also contains iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 4 mg also contains iron oxide yellow , iron oxide red and iron oxide black .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 8 mg also contains iron oxide red and FD & C blue # 2 .
Ropinirole Extended - release Tablet 12 mg also contains iron oxide yellow and FD & C blue # 2 .
Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Iss . 150512 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
