Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Benzocaine 20 % Topical analgesic Menthol 0 . 5 % Topical analgesic Uses for temporary relief of pain and itching associated with • sunburn • insect bites • minor cuts • scrapes • minor burns • minor skin irritations Warnings For external use only Flammable do not use near heat , flame , or fire or while smoking Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes .
Do not spray in the face or mouth .
• use only as directed • intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating or inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal • do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • itching , rash or irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age consult a doctor • to use this product , hold the can 6 to 12 inches away from the affected area .
Direct spray nozzle towards skin and press button to activate spray .
• to apply to face , spray in palm of hand and gently apply Other information • avoid contact with leather , fabric and upholstery to prevent possible staining or discoloration • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acetylated lanolin alcohol , aloe vera gel ( decolorized ) , butane , cetyl acetate , hydrofluorocarbon 152 a , methylparaben , PEG - 400 monolaurate , polysorbate 85 Questions ?
1 - 800 - 345 - 0032 Mon - Fri 8 AM - 5 PM EST Dermoplast . com Distributed by Advantice Health , LLC Cedar Knolls , NJ 07927 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 78 g Can Label Dermoplast ® Pain Relieving Spray HOSPITAL TRUSTED BRAND INSECT ITCH & STING RELIEF RELIEVES PAIN & ITCH from insect bites , stings & other skin irritations # 1 Doctor Recommended Brand * Provides Fast Pain Relief Menthol Cools & Comforts Soothing Aloe & Lanolin NET WT .
2 . 75 oz ( 78 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
