Instant Hand Sanitizing Spray with Aloe Kills 99 . 9 percent of germs that may cause disease Use anywhere without the need for water Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Ethyl Alcohol 62 percent Antimicrobial Uses For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin that may cause disease Recommended for repeat use Warnings For external use only - hands .
Flammable Keep away from heat and flame .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
For children under 6 , use only under adult supervision .
Not recommended for infants .
Other Information Do not store above 105 degrees F . May discolor some fabrics .
Harmful to wood finishes and plastics .
Alcohol , Aloe Barbadensis Extract , Deionized Water , Hydroxyehylcellulose , PEG 40 hydrogenated castor oil , Perfume , Propylene Glycol , Tocopherol 2 PENS 0 . 27 FL OZ 8 ML PER PEN Made in China Distributed by NuPak L . L . C 5823 Bowen Daniel Dr 701 Tampa FL 33616 Questions or Comments 1 888 988 7232 www . quikspray . net The Breast Cancer Research Foundation Help Us Reach Our Goal Of 100 000 At Nupak we are committed to raising money to help fight the terrible disease that is breast cancer .
We hope that you join us in our goal of raising at least 100 000 for The Breast Cancer Research Foundation .
Every Quikspray you purchase will help us get closer and closer to that goal .
We want you to help us as we take part in defeating this disease once and for all .
1 percent of every Quikspray sale is donated to The Breast Cancer Research Foundation .
BCRF is dedicated to preventing breast cancer and finding a cure in our lifetime by funding clinical and translational research worldwide .
For more information about BCRF please visit www . bcrf . org The Breast Cancer Research Foundation Quikspray 180 plus sprays Advanced Hand Sanitizing Spray 1 percent of every Quikspray sold is donated to The Breast Cancer Research Foundation .
For more information about BCRF please visit www . bcrf . org Kills 99 . 99 percent of germs 0 . 54 FL OZ 16 mL Quikspray Contains Aloe Vera Kills 99 . 99 percent of germs Advanced Hand Sanitizing Spray www . quikspray . net 90 plus sprays 8 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
