[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for : • Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) • Treatment of HypertensionTreatment of Hypertension 1 . 1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH .
1 . 2 Hypertension Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including this drug .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Doxazosin tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For the treatment of BPH : Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily .
Dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals , up to 8 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • For the treatment hypertension : Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily .
Dose may be titrated as needed , up to 16 mg once daily .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Following the initial dose and with each dose increase of doxazosin tablets , monitor blood pressure for at least 6 hours following administration .
If doxazosin tablets administration is discontinued for several days , therapy should be restarted using the initial dosing regimen .
2 . 2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended initial dosage of doxazosin tablets is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening .
Depending on the individual patient ’ s urodynamics and BPH symptomatology , the dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals to 2 mg , and thereafter to 4 mg and 8 mg once daily .
The maximum recommended dose for BPH is 8 mg once daily .
Routinely monitor blood pressure in these patients .
2 . 3 Hypertension The initial dosage of doxazosin tablets is 1 mg given once daily .
Daily dosage may be doubled up 16 mg once daily , as needed , to achieve the desired reduction in blood pressure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Doxazosin Tablets , USP are available as 1 mg ( white to off - white , round , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 093 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) , 2 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 094 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) , 4 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 095 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) and 8 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 096 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) .
• Tablets : 1 mg , 2 mg , 4 mg , 8 mg .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of doxazosin tablets is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to doxazosin , other quinazolines ( e . g . , prazosin , terazosin ) , or any of its components .
• Hypersensitivity to doxazosin , other quinazolines , or any other ingredient in doxazosin tablets .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Postural hypotension with or without syncope may occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk of Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome during cataract surgery .
( 5 . 2 ) • Screen for the presence of prostate cancer prior to treatment for BPH and at regular intervals afterwards .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Postural Hypotension Postural hypotension with or without symptoms ( e . g . , dizziness ) may develop within a few hours following administration of doxazosin tablets .
However , infrequently , symptomatic postural hypotension has also been reported later than a few hours after dosing .
As with other alpha - blockers , there is a potential for syncope , especially after the initial dose or after an increase in dosage strength .
Advise patient how to avoid symptoms resulting from postural hypotension and what measures to take should they develop .
Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a PDE - 5 inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension .
5 . 2 Cataract Surgery Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on or previously treated with alpha1 blockers .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ’ s surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
5 . 3 Prostate Cancer Carcinoma of the prostate causes many of the symptoms associated with BPH and the two disorders frequently co - exist .
Carcinoma of the prostate should therefore be ruled out prior to commencing therapy with doxazosin tablets for the treatment of BPH .
5 . 4 Priapism Alpha1 antagonists , including doxazosin , have been associated with priapism ( painful penile erection , sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation ) .
This condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly reported adverse reactions from clinical trials are Fatigue , malaise , hypotension , and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Corp at 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The incidence of adverse events has been ascertained from worldwide clinical trials in 965 BPH patients .
The incidence rates presented below ( Table 2 ) are based on combined data from seven placebo - controlled trials involving once - daily administration of doxazosin tablets in doses of 1 to 16 mg in hypertensives and 0 . 5 to 8 mg in normotensives .
Adverse reactions occurring more than 1 % more frequently in BPH patients treated with doxazosin tablets vs placebo are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring more than 1 % More Frequently in BPH Patients Treated with Doxazosin Tablets Versus PlaceboBODY SYSTEM Doxazosin Tablets N = 665 Placebo N = 300 NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness † 15 . 6 % 9 % Somnolence 3 % 1 % CARDIAC DISORDERS Hypotension 1 . 7 % 0 % RESPIRATORY , THORACIC AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS Dyspnoea 2 . 6 % 0 . 3 % GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Dry Mouth 1 . 4 % 0 . 3 % GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue 8 % 1 . 7 % Oedema 2 . 7 % 0 . 7 % † Includes vertigo Other adverse reactions occurring less than 1 % more frequently in BPH patients treated with doxazosin tablets vs placebo but plausibly related to doxazosin tablets include : palpitations .
Hypertension Doxazosin tablets has been administered to approximately 4 , 000 hypertensive patients in clinical trials , of whom 1 , 679 were included in the hypertension clinical development program .
In placebo - controlled studies , adverse events occurred in 49 % and 40 % of patients in the doxazosin and placebo groups , respectively , and led to discontinuation in 2 % of patients in each group .
Adverse reactions occurring more than 1 % more frequently in hypertensive patients treated with doxazosin tablets vs placebo are summarized in Table 1 .
Postural effects and edema appeared to be dose - related .
The prevalence rates presented below are based on combined data from placebo - controlled studies involving once - daily administration of doxazosin at doses ranging from 1 to 16 mg .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring more than 1 % More Frequently in Hypertensive Patients Treated with Doxazosin Tablets versus PlaceboBODY SYSTEM Doxazosin Tablets N = 339 Placebo N = 336 NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness 19 % 9 % Somnolence 5 % 1 % RESPIRATORY , THORACIC AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS Rhinitis 3 % 1 % RENAL AND URINARY DISORDERS Polyuria 2 % 0 % REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM AND BREAST DISORDERS GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue / Malaise 12 % 6 % Other adverse reactions occurring less than 1 % more frequently in hypertensive patients treated with doxazosin tablets vs placebo but plausibly related to doxazosin tablets use include vertigo , hypotension , hot flushes , epistaxis and oedema .
Doxazosin tablets has been associated with decreases in white blood cell counts Laboratory changes observed in clinical studies Leukopenia / Neutropenia : Decreases in mean white blood cell ( WBC ) and mean neutrophil count were observed in controlled clinical trials of hypertensive patients receiving doxazosin tablets .
In cases where follow - up was available , WBC and neutrophil counts returned to normal after discontinuation of doxazosin tablets .
No patients became symptomatic as a result of the low WBC or neutrophil counts .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of doxazosin tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In post - marketing experience , the following additional adverse reactions have been reported : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : leukopenia , thrombocytopenia ; Immune System Disorders : allergic reaction ; Nervous System Disorders : hypoesthesia ; Eye Disorders : Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] ; Cardiac Disorders : bradycardia ; Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : bronchospasm aggravated ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting ; Hepatobiliary Disorders : cholestasis , hepatitis cholestatic ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : urticaria ; Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : muscle cramps , muscle weakness ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : hematuria , micturition disorder , micturition frequency , nocturia ; Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : gynecomastia , priapism .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3 A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin and increased risk of hypotension .
( 7 . 1 ) • Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 CYP 3 A Inhibitors In vitro studies suggest that doxazosin is a substrate of CYP 3A4 .
Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin .
Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin tablets are used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) Inhibitors Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension .
Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Impairment : Monitor for hypotension .
( 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with doxazosin tablets in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
However , untreated hypertension during pregnancy can result in increased maternal risks [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed when doxazosin was orally administered to pregnant rabbits and rats during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 41 and 20 mg / kg , respectively ( exposures in rabbits and rats were 10 and 4 times , respectively , the human AUC exposures with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) .
A dosage regimen of 82 mg / kg / day in the rabbit was associated with reduced fetal survival [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Data Animal Data Radioactivity was found to cross the placenta following oral administration of labelled doxazosin to pregnant rats .
Studies in pregnant rabbits and rats at daily oral doses of up to 41 and 20 mg / kg , respectively ( plasma drug concentrations of 10 and 4 times , respectively , the human AUC exposures with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) , have revealed no evidence of adverse developmental effects .
A dosage regimen of 82 mg / kg / day in the rabbit was associated with reduced fetal survival .
In peri - and postnatal studies in rats , postnatal development at maternal doses of 40 or 50 mg / kg / day of doxazosin ( about 8 times human AUC exposure with a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose ) was delayed , as evidenced by slower body weight gain and slightly later appearance of anatomical features and reflexes .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information on the presence of doxazosin in human milk [ see Data ] .
There is no information on the effects of doxazosin tablets on the breastfeed infant or the effects on milk production .
Data A single case study reports that doxazosin is present in human milk , which resulted in an infant dose of less than 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio of 0 . 1 .
However , these data are insufficient to confirm the presence of doxazosin in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of doxazosin tablets have not been established in children .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The safety and effectiveness profile of doxazosin tablets was similar in the elderly ( age ≥ 65 years ) and younger ( age < 65 years ) patients .
Hypertension Clinical studies of doxazosin tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Doxazosin is extensively metabolized in the liver .
Hepatic impairment is expected to increase exposure to doxazosin .
Use of doxazosin tablets in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) is not recommended .
Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension in patients with lesser degrees of hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Experience with doxazosin overdosage is limited .
Two adolescents , who each intentionally ingested 40 mg doxazosin tablets with diclofenac or acetaminophen , were treated with gastric lavage with activated charcoal and made full recoveries .
A two - year - old child who accidently ingested 4 mg doxazosin tablets were treated with gastric lavage and remained normotensive during the five - hour emergency room observation period .
A six - month - old child accidentally received a crushed 1 mg tablet of doxazosin and was reported to have been drowsy .
A 32 - year - old female with chronic renal failure , epilepsy , and depression intentionally ingested 60 mg doxazosin ( blood level = 0 . 9 mcg / mL ; normal values in hypertensives = 0 . 02 mcg / mL ) ; death was attributed to a grand mal seizure resulting from hypotension .
A 39 - year - old female who ingested 70 mg doxazosin tablets , alcohol , and Dalmane ® ( flurazepam ) developed hypotension which responded to fluid therapy .
The oral LD50 of doxazosin is greater than 1 , 000 mg / kg in mice and rats .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of fluid .
As doxazosin is highly protein bound , dialysis would not be indicated .
11 DESCRIPTION Doxazosin mesylate is a quinazoline compound that is a selective inhibitor of the alpha1 subtype of alpha - adrenergic receptors .
The chemical name of doxazosin mesylate is 1 - ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) - 4 - ( 1 , 4 - benzodioxan - 2 - ylcarbonyl ) piperazine methanesulfonate .
The empirical formula for doxazosin mesylate is C23H25N5O5 • CH4O3S and the molecular weight is 547 . 6 .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxazosin mesylate is freely soluble in dimethylsulfoxide , soluble in dimethylformamide , slightly soluble in methanol , ethanol , and water ( 0 . 8 % at 25 ° C ) , and very slightly soluble in acetone and methylene chloride .
Each doxazosin tablet , USP , for oral administration , contains 1 mg , 2 mg , 4 mg and 8 mg of doxazosin as the free base .
In addition , each doxazosin tablet , USP contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) , such as urinary frequency , nocturia , weak stream , hesitancy , and incomplete emptying are related to two components , anatomical ( static ) and functional ( dynamic ) .
The static component is related to an increase in prostate size caused , in part , by a proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the prostatic stroma .
However , the severity of BPH symptoms and the degree of urethral obstruction do not correlate well with the size of the prostate .
The dynamic component of BPH is associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the prostate and bladder neck .
The degree of tone in this area is mediated by the alpha1 adrenoceptor , which is present in high density in the prostatic stroma , prostatic capsule and bladder neck .
Blockade of the alpha1 receptor decreases urethral resistance and may relieve the obstruction and BPH symptoms and improve urine flow .
Hypertension The mechanism of action of doxazosin is selective blockade of the alpha1 ( postjunctional ) subtype of adrenergic receptors .
Studies in normal human subjects have shown that doxazosin competitively antagonized the pressor effects of phenylephrine ( an alpha1 agonist ) and the systolic pressor effect of norepinephrine .
Doxazosin and prazosin have similar abilities to antagonize phenylephrine .
The antihypertensive effect of doxazosin results from a decrease in systemic vascular resistance .
The parent compound doxazosin is primarily responsible for the antihypertensive activity .
The low plasma concentrations of known active and inactive metabolites of doxazosin ( 2 - piperazinyl , 6 ’ - and 7 ’ - hydroxy and 6 - and 7 - O - desmethyl compounds ) compared to parent drug indicate that the contribution of even the most potent compound ( 6 ’ - hydroxy ) to the antihypertensive effect of doxazosin in man is probably small .
The 6 ’ - and 7 ’ - hydroxy metabolites have demonstrated antioxidant properties at concentrations of 5 mcM , in vitro .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) Administration of doxazosin tablets to patients with symptomatic BPH resulted in a statistically significant improvement in maximum urinary flow rate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Effect on Normotensive Patients with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) Although blockade of alpha1 adrenoceptors also lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients with increased peripheral vascular resistance , doxazosin tabletstreatment of normotensive men with BPH did not result in a clinically significant blood pressure lowering effect ( Table 4 ) .
The proportion of normotensive patients with a sitting systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure less than 60 mmHg at any time during treatment with doxazosin tablets 1 to 8 mg once daily was 6 . 7 % with doxazosin and not significantly different ( statistically ) from that with placebo ( 5 % ) .
Hypertension Administration of doxazosin tablets results in a reduction in systemic vascular resistance .
In patients with hypertension , there is little change in cardiac output .
Maximum reductions in blood pressure usually occur 2 to 6 hours after dosing and are associated with a small increase in standing heart rate .
Like other alpha1 - adrenergic blocking agents , doxazosin has a greater effect on blood pressure and heart rate in the standing position .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration of therapeutic doses , peak plasma levels of doxazosin occur at about 2 to 3 hours .
Bioavailability is approximately 65 % , reflecting first - pass metabolism of doxazosin by the liver .
The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of doxazosin was examined in a crossover study with twelve hypertensive subjects .
Reductions of 18 % in mean maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and 12 % in the area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) occurred when doxazosin tablets was administered with food .
Neither of these differences is clinically significant .
In a crossover study in 24 normotensive subjects , the pharmacokinetics and safety of doxazosin were shown to be similar with morning and evening dosing regimens .
The AUC after morning dosing was , however , 11 % less than that after evening dosing and the time to peak concentration after evening dosing occurred significantly later than that after morning dosing ( 5 . 6 vs . 3 . 5 hours ) .
Distribution At the plasma concentrations achieved by therapeutic doses , approximately 98 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism Doxazosin is extensively metabolized in the liver , mainly by O - demethylation of the quinazoline nucleus or hydroxylation of the benzodioxan moiety .
In vitro studies suggest that the primary pathway for elimination is via CYP 3A4 ; however , CYP 2D6 and CYP 2C9 metabolic pathways are also involved to a lesser extent .
Although several active metabolites of doxazosin have been identified , the pharmacokinetics of these metabolites have not been characterized .
Excretion Plasma elimination of doxazosin is biphasic , with a terminal elimination half - life of about 22 hours .
Steady - state studies in hypertensive patients given doxazosin doses of 2 to 16 mg once daily showed linear kinetics and dose proportionality .
In two studies , following the administration of 2 mg orally once daily , the mean accumulation ratios ( steady - state AUC vs . first - dose AUC ) were 1 . 2 and 1 . 7 .
Enterohepatic recycling is suggested by secondary peaking of plasma doxazosin concentrations .
In a study of two subjects administered radiolabelled doxazosin 2 mg orally and 1 mg intravenously on two separate occasions , approximately 63 % of the dose was eliminated in the feces and 9 % of the dose was found in the urine .
On average only 4 . 8 % of the dose was excreted as unchanged drug in the feces and only a trace of the total radioactivity in the urine was attributed to unchanged drug .
Specific Populations Geriatric The pharmacokinetics of doxazosin in young ( < 65 years ) and elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) subjects were similar for plasma half - life values and oral clearance .
Renal Impairment Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly patients and patients with renal impairment have shown no significant alterations compared to younger patients with normal renal function .
Hepatic Impairment Administration of a single 2 mg dose to patients with cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh Class A ) showed a 40 % increase in exposure to doxazosin .
The impact of moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) or severe ( Child - Pugh Class C ) hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of doxazosin is not known [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interactions There are only limited data on the effects of drugs known to influence the hepatic metabolism of doxazosin ( e . g . , cimetidine ) .
Cimetidine : In healthy volunteers , the administration of a single 1 mg dose of doxazosin on day 1 of a four - day regimen of oral cimetidine ( 400 mg twice daily ) resulted in a 10 % increase in mean AUC of doxazosin , and a slight but not significant increase in mean Cmax and mean half - life of doxazosin .
In vitro data in human plasma indicate that doxazosin has no effect on protein binding of digoxin , warfarin , phenytoin , or indomethacin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis : Chronic dietary administration ( up to 24 months ) of doxazosin mesylate at maximally tolerated doses of 40 mg / kg / day in rats and 120 mg / kg / day in mice revealed no evidence of carcinogenic potential .
The highest doses evaluated in the rat and mouse studies are associated with AUCs ( a measure of systemic exposure ) that are 8 times and 4 times , respectively , the human AUC at a dose of 16 mg / day .
Mutagenicity studies revealed no drug - or metabolite - related effects at either chromosomal or subchromosomal levels .
Fertility in Males : Studies in rats showed reduced fertility in males treated with doxazosin at oral doses of 20 ( but not 5 or 10 ) mg / kg / day , about 4 times the AUC exposures obtained with a 12 mg / day human dose .
This effect was reversible within two weeks of drug withdrawal .
There have been no reports of any effects of doxazosin on male fertility in humans .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and Pharmacology An increased incidence of myocardial necrosis or fibrosis was observed in long - term ( 6 to 12 months ) studies in rats and mice ( exposure 8 times human AUC exposure in rats and somewhat equivalent to human Cmax exposure in mice ) .
Findings were not seen at lower doses .
In dogs no cardiotoxicity was observed following 12 months of oral dosing at doses that resulted in maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) 14 times the Cmax exposure in humans receiving a 12 mg / day therapeutic dose or in Wistar rats at Cmax exposures 15 times human Cmax exposure .
There is no evidence that similar lesions occur in humans .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The efficacy of doxazosin was evaluated extensively in over 900 patients with BPH in double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
Doxazosin tablets treatment was superior to placebo in improving patient symptoms and urinary flow rate .
Significant relief with doxazosin tablets was seen as early as one week into the treatment regimen , with doxazosin tablets - treated patients ( N = 173 ) showing a significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) increase in maximum flow rate of 0 . 8 mL / sec compared to a decrease of 0 . 5 mL / sec in the placebo group ( N = 41 ) .
In long - term studies , improvement was maintained for up to 2 years of treatment .
In 66 to 71 % of patients , improvements above baseline were seen in both symptoms and maximum urinary flow rate .
In three placebo - controlled studies of 14 to 16 weeks ’ duration , obstructive symptoms ( hesitation , intermittency , dribbling , weak urinary stream , incomplete emptying of the bladder ) and irritative symptoms ( nocturia , daytime frequency , urgency , burning ) of BPH were evaluated at each visit by patient - assessed symptom questionnaires .
The bothersomeness of symptoms was measured with a modified Boyarsky questionnaire .
Symptom severity / frequency was assessed using a modified Boyarsky questionnaire or an AUA - based questionnaire .
Uroflowmetric evaluations were performed at times of peak ( 2 to 6 hours post - dose ) and / or trough ( 24 hours post - dose ) plasma concentrations of doxazosin .
The results from the three placebo - controlled studies ( N = 609 ) showing significant efficacy with 4 mg and 8 mg doxazosin are summarized in Table 3 .
In all three studies , doxazosin resulted in statistically significant relief of obstructive and irritative symptoms compared to placebo .
Statistically significant improvements of 2 . 3 to 3 . 3 mL / sec in maximum flow rate were seen with doxazosin tablets in Studies 1 and 2 , compared to 0 . 1 to 0 . 7 mL / sec with placebo .
Table 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In one fixed - dose study ( Study 2 ) , doxazosin tablets therapy ( 4 to 8 mg , once daily ) resulted in a significant and sustained improvement in maximum urinary flow rate of 2 . 3 to 3 . 3 mL / sec ( Table 3 ) compared to placebo ( 0 . 1 mL / sec ) .
In this study , the only study in which weekly evaluations were made , significant improvement with doxazosin tablets vs . placebo was seen after one week .
The proportion of patients who responded with a maximum flow rate improvement of ≥ 3 mL / sec was significantly larger with doxazosin tablets ( 34 to 42 % ) than placebo ( 13 to 17 % ) .
A significantly greater improvement was also seen in average flow rate with doxazosin tablets ( 1 . 6 mL / sec ) than with placebo ( 0 . 2 mL / sec ) .
The onset and time course of symptom relief and increased urinary flow from Study 1 are illustrated in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 – Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Hypertension In a pooled analysis of placebo - controlled hypertension studies with about 300 hypertensive patients per treatment group , doxazosin , at doses of 1 to 16 mg given once daily , lowered blood pressure at 24 hours by about 10 / 8 mmHg compared to placebo in the standing position and about 9 / 5 mmHg in the supine position .
Peak blood pressure effects ( 1 to 6 hours ) were larger by about 50 to 75 % ( i . e . , trough values were about 55 to 70 % of peak effect ) , with the larger peak - trough differences seen in systolic pressures .
There was no apparent difference in the blood pressure response of Caucasians and blacks or of patients above and below age 65 .
In the same patient population , patients receiving doxazosin tablets gained a mean of 0 . 6 kg compared to a mean loss of 0 . 1 kg for placebo patients .
TABLE 4 Mean Changes in Blood Pressure from Baseline to the Mean of the Final Efficacy Phase in Normotensives ( Diastolic BP < 90 mmHg ) in Two Double - blind , Placebo - controlled U . S . Studies with doxazosin 1 to 8 mg once daily .
PLACEBO ( N = 85 ) Doxazosin Tablets ( N = 183 ) Sitting BP ( mmHg ) Baseline Change Baseline Change Systolic 128 . 4 – 1 . 4 128 . 8 – 4 . 9 [ 1 ] Diastolic 79 . 2 – 1 . 2 79 . 6 – 2 . 4 Standing BP ( mmHg ) Baseline Change Baseline Change Systolic 128 . 5 – 0 . 6 128 . 5 – 5 . 3 Diastolic 80 . 5 – 0 . 7 80 . 4 – 2 . 6 [ 1 ] p ≤ 0 . 05 compared to placebo 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Doxazosin tablets , USP are available as white to off - white tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet contains doxazosin mesylate equivalent to 1 mg , 2 mg , 4 mg or 8 mg of the active constituent , doxazosin .
Doxazosin tablets , USP are available as 1 mg ( white to off - white , round , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 093 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) , 2 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 094 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) , 4 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 095 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) and 8 mg ( white to off - white , capsule shaped , scored tablets , imprinted " APO " on one side and " 096 " with a partial bisect on the other side ) .
Bottles of 100 : 1 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0093 - 0 ) 2 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0094 - 0 ) 4 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0095 - 0 ) 8 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0096 - 0 ) Bottles of 1 , 000 : 1 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0093 - 1 ) 2 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0094 - 1 ) 4 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0095 - 1 ) 8 mg ( NDC 60505 - 0096 - 1 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container [ see USP ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Postural Hypotension Advise patients of the possibility of syncopal and orthostatic symptoms , especially at the initiation of therapy , and urged to avoid driving or hazardous tasks for 24 hours after the first dose , after a dosage increase , and after interruption of therapy when treatment is resumed .
Advise patients to report symptoms to their healthcare provider .
Priapism Advise patients of the possibility of priapism and to seek immediate medical attention if symptoms occur .
Dispense with Patient Information available at www1 . apotex . com / products / us APOTEX INC .
DOXAZOSIN TABLETS , USP 1 mg , 2 mg , 4 mg and 8 mg Manufactured by Manufactured for Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : April 2022 Rev . 7 PATIENT INFORMATION Doxazosin Tablets ( dox az ' oh sin mes ' i late ) Dispense with Patient Information available at www1 . apotex . com / products / us What are doxazosin tablets ?
Doxazosin tablets are a prescription medicine that contains doxazosin mesylate and is called an " alpha - blocker " .
Doxazosin tablets are used to treat : • the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) • high blood pressure ( hypertension ) It is not known if doxazosin tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take doxazosin tablets ?
Do not take doxazosin tablets if you : • are allergic to doxazosin , other quinazolines , or any of the ingredients in doxazosin tablets .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in doxazosin tablets .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking doxazosin tablets ?
Before taking doxazosin tablets , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had low blood pressure , especially after taking other medicine .
Signs of low blood pressure include fainting , dizziness , and lightheadedness .
• have any planned eye surgery • have prostate cancer or a history of prostate cancer .
Your healthcare provider may have you checked for prostate cancer before you start taking and while you take doxazosin tablets .
• have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if doxazosin tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if doxazosin passes into your breastmilk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take doxazosin tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Doxazosin tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way doxazosin tablets work causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • other medicine for high blood pressure or medicine to treat erectile dysfunction ( ED ) called a phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor .
The use of doxazosin tablets with PDE - 5 inhibitors can lead to a drop in blood pressure or to fainting .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take doxazosin tablets ?
• Take doxazosin tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much doxazosin tablets to take and when to take it .
• Your healthcare provider may need to change your dose of doxazosin tablets until it is the right dose for you .
What should I avoid while taking doxazosin tablets ?
Do not drive or perform any hazardous task until at least 24 hours after you have taken doxazosin tablets if you are taking : • your first dose of doxazosin tablets • Doxazosin tablets for the first time after your healthcare provider has increased your dose of doxazosin tablets • Doxazosin tablets for the first time after any breaks ( interruptions ) in your treatment with doxazosin tablets What are the possible side effects of doxazosin tablets ?
Doxazosin tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • A sudden drop in blood pressure , especially when you first start treatment or when there is an increase in your dose of doxazosin tablets , is common but can also be serious .
This may cause you to faint , or to feel dizzy or lightheaded .
Your risk of having this problem may be increased if you take doxazosin tablets with certain other medicines that lower blood pressure including PDE - 5 inhibitors .
Your healthcare provider may monitor your blood pressure while you take doxazosin tablets .
See " What should I avoid while taking doxazosin tablets ? "
• Eye problems during cataract surgery .
A condition called Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) can happen during cataract surgery if you take or have taken alpha - blockers such as doxazosin tablets .
If you need to have cataract surgery , be sure to tell your healthcare provider if you take or have taken doxazosin tablets .
• A painful erection that will not go away .
Doxazosin tablets can cause a painful erection ( priapism ) , which cannot be relieved by having sex .
If this happens , get medical help right away .
If priapism is not treated , you may not be able to get an erection in the future .
The most common side effects of doxazosin tablets are : • weakness or lack of energy ( asthenia ) • dizziness Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of doxazosin tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of doxazosin tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use doxazosin tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give doxazosin tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about doxazosin tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in doxazosin tablets ?
Active ingredient : doxazosin mesylate Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
APOTEX INC .
DOXAZOSIN TABLETS , USP 1 mg , 2 mg , 4 mg and 8 mg Manufactured by Manufactured for Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : April 2022 Rev . 7 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL FOR 1 MG 100 s Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section of complete listing ) : APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 0093 - 0 Doxazosin Tablets , USP1mgRx100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL FOR 2 MG 100 s Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section of complete listing ) : APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 0094 - 0 Doxazosin Tablets , USP2mgRx100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL FOR 4 MG 100 s Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section of complete listing ) : APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 0095 - 0 Doxazosin Tablets , USP4mgRx100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL FOR 8 MG 100 s Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section of complete listing ) : APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 0096 - 0 Doxazosin Tablets , USP8mgRx100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
