Active ingredients ( in each packet ) – Daytime Severe Cold and Cough Acetaminophen 650 mg Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Active ingredients ( in each packet ) - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough Acetaminophen 650 mg Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Purposes - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough Pain reliever / fever reducer Cough Suppressant Nasal Decongestant Purpose - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough Pain reliever / fever reducer Antihistamine / cough Suppressant Nasal Decongestant Uses - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough • • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold : • • minor aches and pains • • minor sore throat pain • • headache • • nasal and sinus congestion • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • • temporarily reduces fever Uses - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold : • • minor aches and pains • • minor sore throat pain • • headache • • nasal and sinus congestion • • runny nose • • sneezing • • itchy nose or throat • • itchy , watery eyes due to hay fever • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • • temporarily reduces fever Warnings – Daytime Severe Cold and Cough and Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take • • more than 4 , 000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this productAllergy alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : ● Skin reddening ● blisters ● rash Is a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough • • in a child under 12 years of age • • if you are allergic to acetaminophen • • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or a pharmacist .
• • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Do not use - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • in a child under 12 years of age • • if you are allergic to acetaminophen • • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or a pharmacist .
• • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin • • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains a MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough • • liver disease • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema Ask a doctor before use if you have - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • liver disease • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • glaucoma • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • taking sedatives or tranquilizers • • taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough do not exceed recommended dosage When using this product - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • do not exceed recommended dosage • • avoid alcoholic drinks • • marked drowsiness may occur • • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • • excitability may occur , especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if – Daytime Severe Cold and Cough / Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occurs • • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • • redness or swelling is present • • new symptoms occur • • pain , cough or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days • • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions – Daytime Severe Cold and Cough • • do not use more than directed • • take every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , Do not take more than 5 packets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor Age Dose Adults and children 12 years of age and over One packet Children under 12 years of age Do not use • • dissolve contents of one packet into 8 oz .
hot water : sip while hot .
Consume entire drink within 10 - 15 minutes .
• • if using a microwave , add contents of one packet to 8 oz .
of cool water : stir briskly before and after heating .
Do not overheat Directions Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • do not use more than directed • • take every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , Do not take more than 5 packets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor .
Age Dose Adults and children 12 years of age and over One packet Children under 12 years of age Do not use • • dissolve contents of one packet into 8 oz .
hot water : sip while hot .
Consume entire drink within 10 - 15 minutes .
• • if using a microwave , add contents of one packet to 8 oz .
of cool water : stir briskly before and after heating .
Do not overheat Other information - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough • • each packet contains : potassium 6 mg • • store at room temperature .
Protect from excessive heat and moisture Other information - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough • • each packet contains : potassium 6 mg • • store at room temperature .
Protect from excessive heat and moisture Inactive ingredients - Daytime Severe Cold and Cough citric acid , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red 40 # , flavors , maltodextrin , potassium chloride , silica , sucralose , sucrose Inactive ingredients - Nighttime Severe Cold and Cough citric acid , FD & C yellow # 6 , flavors , maltodextrin , potassium chloride , silica , sucralose , sucrose , Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Compare to active ingredients in Theraflu ® Daytime Severe Cold and Cough and Nighttime Severe Cold & Cough * Value pack daytime severe cold and cough acetaminophen ( pain reliever / fever reducer ) dextromethorphan HBr ( cough suppressant ) phenylephrine HCl ( nasal decongestant ) aspartame free , sodium free relief of nasal and sinus congestion , , cough , body ache , sore throat pain , headache , fever berry flavor infused with menthol and green tea flavors 6 PACKETS nighttime severe cold and cough acetaminophen – ( pain reliever / fever reducer ) diphenhydramine HCl – ( antihistamine / cough suppressant ) phenylephrine HCl – ( nasal decongestant ) aspartame free , sodium free relief of nasal congestion , , cough , runny nose , sneezing , body ache , sore throat pain , headache , fever honey lemon flavor infused with chamomile & white tea flavors 6 PACKETS READ ALL WARNINGS AND DIRECTIONS ON CARTON BEFORE USE .
KEEP CARTON FOR REFERENCE , DO NOT DISCARD .
DO NOT TAKE BOTH PRODUCTS AT THE SAME TIME OR TAKE MORE THAN 5 DOSES IN TOTAL IN ANY 24 – HOUR PERIOD .
DO NOT TAKE A DOSE OF THE NIGHTTIME PRODUCT SOONER THAN 4 HOURS AFTER THE LAST DOSE OF DAYTIME PRODUCT UNLESS DIRECTED BY DOCTOR .
* These Products are not manufactured or distributed by GSK Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Theraflu Daytime Severe Cold & Cough and Theraflu Nighttime severe Cold & Cough Distributed by : Target Corporation .
Minneapolis , MN 55403 TM & © 2017 Target Brands , Inc .
Tamper Evident Inner Unit Do not use if sealed packet is Torn or Broken [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
