1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are an alpha - / beta - adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of : • • hypertension ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 3 Hypertension Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 , 14 . 4 ) ] .
It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide - type diuretics [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are intended for once - daily administration .
Patients controlled with immediate - release carvedilol tablets alone or in combination with other medications may be switched to carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules based on the total daily doses shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Dosing ConversionDaily Dose of Immediate - Release Carvedilol Tablets Daily Dose of Carvedilol Phosphate Extended - Release Capsules [ 1 ] 6 . 25 mg ( 3 . 125 mg twice daily ) 10 mg once daily 12 . 5 mg ( 6 . 25 mg twice daily ) 20 mg once daily 25 mg ( 12 . 5 mg twice daily ) 40 mg once daily 50 mg ( 25 mg twice daily ) 80 mg once daily [ 1 ] When switching from carvedilol 12 . 5 mg or 25 mg twice daily , a starting dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 20 mg or 40 mg once daily , respectively , may be warranted for elderly patients or those at increased risk of hypotension , dizziness , or syncope .
Subsequent titration to higher doses should , as appropriate , be made after an interval of at least 2 weeks .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be taken once daily in the morning with food .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be swallowed as a whole capsule .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and / or its contents should not be crushed , chewed , or taken in divided doses .
Take with food .
Do not crush or chew capsules .
Individualize dosage and monitor during up - titration .
( 2 ) • • Hypertension : Start at 20 mg once daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 40 mg then 80 mg once daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Elderly patients ( > 65 years of age ) : When switching from higher doses of immediate - release carvedilol to carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , a lower starting dose should be considered to reduce the risk of hypotension and syncope .
( 2 . 5 ) Alternative Administration : The capsules may be carefully opened and the contents sprinkled over a spoonful of applesauce .
The applesauce should not be warm because it could affect the modified - release properties of this formulation .
The mixture of drug and applesauce should be consumed immediately in its entirety .
The drug and applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use .
Absorption of the contents sprinkled on other foods has not been tested .
2 . 3 Hypertension DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
The recommended starting dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is 20 mg once daily .
If this dose is tolerated , using standing systolic pressure measured about one hour after dosing as a guide , the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days , and then increased to 40 mg once daily if needed , based on trough blood pressure , again using standing systolic pressure one hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance .
This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 80 mg once daily if tolerated and needed .
Although not specifically studied , it is anticipated the full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules would be seen within 7 to 14 days as had been demonstrated with immediate - release carvedilol .
Total daily dose should not exceed 80 mg .
Concomitant administration with a diuretic can be expected to produce additive effects and exaggerate the orthostatic component of carvedilol action .
2 . 4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
2 . 5 Geriatric Use When switching elderly patients ( aged 65 years or older ) who are taking the higher doses of immediate - release carvedilol tablets ( 25 mg twice daily ) to carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , a lower starting dose ( 40 mg ) of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is recommended to minimize the potential for dizziness , syncope , or hypotension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Patients who have switched and who tolerate carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should , as appropriate , have their dose increased after an interval of at least 2 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The hard gelatin capsules are filled with carvedilol phosphate controlled - release minitablets that are coated with methacrylic acid copolymers and are available in the following strengths : • • 10 mg – white opaque / white opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 899 • • 20 mg – dark green opaque / dark green opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 900 • • 40 mg – yellow opaque / yellow opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 901 • • 80 mg – green opaque / green opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 902 Capsules : 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg and 80 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are contraindicated in the following conditions : • • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions .
Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of immediate - release carvedilol .
• • Second - or third - degree AV block .
• • Sick sinus syndrome .
• • Severe bradycardia ( unless a permanent pacemaker is in place ) .
• • Patients with cardiogenic shock or who have decompensated heart failure requiring the use of intravenous inotropic therapy .
Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • Patients with severe hepatic impairment .
• • Patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , anaphylactic reaction , angioedema ) to carvedilol or any of the components of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions .
( 4 ) • • Second - or third - degree AV block .
( 4 ) • • Sick sinus syndrome .
( 4 ) • • Severe bradycardia ( unless permanent pacemaker in place ) .
( 4 ) • • Patients in cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure requiring the use of IV inotropic therapy .
( 4 ) • • Severe hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 4 , 4 ) • • History of serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , anaphylactic reaction , angioedema ) to carvedilol or any of the components of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In clinical trials of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in subjects with hypertension ( 338 subjects ) , the profile of adverse events observed with carvedilol phosphate was generally similar to that observed with the administration of immediate - release carvedilol .
Therefore , the information included within this section is based on data from controlled clinical trials with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules as well as immediate - release carvedilol .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
• • Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy : Do not abruptly discontinue .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Bradycardia , hypotension , worsening heart failure / fluid retention may occur .
Reduce the dose as needed .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • • Non - allergic bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) : Avoid beta - blockers .
( 4 ) However , if deemed necessary , use with caution and at lowest effective dose .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Diabetes : Monitor glucose as beta - blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cessation of Therapy Patients with coronary artery disease , who are being treated with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy .
Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with angina following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - blockers .
The last 2 complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris .
As with other beta - blockers , when discontinuation of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is planned , the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be discontinued over 1 to 2 weeks whenever possible .
If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , it is recommended that carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules be promptly reinstituted , at least temporarily .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
5 . 2 Bradycardia In clinical trials with immediate - release carvedilol , bradycardia was reported in about 2 % of hypertensive subjects .
There were no reports of bradycardia in the clinical trial of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in hypertension .
However , if pulse rate drops below 55 beats / minute , the dosage of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be reduced .
5 . 3 Hypotension In the clinical trial of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in hypertensive subjects , syncope was reported in 0 . 3 % of subjects receiving carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules compared with 0 % of subjects receiving placebo .
There were no reports of postural hypotension in this trial .
Postural hypotension occurred in 1 . 8 % and syncope in 0 . 1 % of hypertensive subjects receiving immediate - release carvedilol , primarily following the initial dose or at the time of dose increase , and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1 % of subjects .
Starting with a low dose , administration with food , and gradual up - titration should decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
During initiation of therapy , the patient should be cautioned to avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks , where injury could result should syncope occur .
5 . 4 Heart Failure / Fluid Retention Worsening heart failure or fluid retention may occur during up - titration of carvedilol .
If such symptoms occur , diuretics should be increased and the dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should not be advanced until clinical stability resumes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Occasionally it is necessary to lower the dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules or temporarily discontinue it .
Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of , or a favorable response to , carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
5 . 5 Non - allergic Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic disease ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) should , in general , not receive beta - blockers .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules may be used with caution , however , in patients who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive agents .
It is prudent , if carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are used , to use the smallest effective dose , so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta - agonists is minimized .
The dosing recommendations should be followed closely and the dose should be lowered if any evidence of bronchospasm is observed during up - titration .
5 . 6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes In general , beta - blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia , particularly tachycardia .
Nonselective beta - blockers may potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels .
Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents should be cautioned about these possibilities .
In a trial designed to examine the effects of immediate - release carvedilol on glycemic control in a population with mild - to - moderate hypertension and well - controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus , carvedilol had no adverse effect on glycemic control , based on HbA1c measurements [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Peripheral Vascular Disease Beta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised in such individuals .
5 . 8 Deterioration of Renal Function Rarely , use of carvedilol has resulted in deterioration of renal function .
Patients at risk appear to be those with low blood pressure ( systolic blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg ) , ischemic heart disease and diffuse vascular disease , and / or underlying renal insufficiency .
Renal function has returned to baseline when carvedilol was stopped .
In patients with these risk factors it is recommended that renal function be monitored during up - titration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and the drug discontinued or dosage reduced if worsening of renal function occurs .
5 . 9 Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
5 . 10 Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism , such as tachycardia .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm .
5 . 11 Pheochromocytoma In patients with pheochromocytoma , an alpha - blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any beta - blocking agent .
Although carvedilol has both alpha - and beta - blocking pharmacologic activities , there has been no experience with its use in this condition .
Therefore , caution should be taken in the administration of carvedilol to patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma .
5 . 12 Prinzmetal ' s Variant Angina Agents with non - selective beta - blocking activity may provoke chest pain in patients with Prinzmetal ' s variant angina .
There has been no clinical experience with carvedilol in these patients although the alpha - blocking activity may prevent such symptoms .
However , caution should be taken in the administration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules to patients suspected of having Prinzmetal ' s variant angina .
5 . 13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
5 . 14 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha - 1 blockers ( carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are an alpha / beta blocker ) .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ' s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique , such as utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha - 1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety profile of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules was similar to that observed for immediate - release carvedilol .
Most common adverse events seen with immediate - release carvedilol ( 6 . 1 ) : • • Hypertension ( > 5 % ) : Dizziness .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Northstar Rx LLC at 1 - 800 - 206 - 7821 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in hypertensive subjects .
The observed adverse event profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the subjects in the clinical trials .
Adverse events reported for subjects with hypertension reflecting the use of either carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules or immediate - release carvedilol are provided below .
Excluded are adverse events considered too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population .
Rates of adverse events were generally similar across demographic subsets ( men and women , elderly and non - elderly , blacks and non - blacks ) .
Hypertension : Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules were evaluated for safety in an 8 - week double - blind trial in 337 subjects with essential hypertension .
The profile of adverse events observed with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules was generally similar to that observed with immediate - release carvedilol .
The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar between carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and placebo .
Table 3 .
Adverse Events ( % ) Occurring More Frequently with Carvedilol Phosphate Extended - Release Capsules than with Placebo in Subjects with Hypertension ( Incidence ≥ 1 % in Subjects Treated with Carvedilol , Regardless of Causality ) Adverse Event Carvedilol Phosphate Extended - Release Capsules ( n = 253 ) Placebo ( n = 84 ) Nasopharyngitis 4 0 Dizziness 2 1 Nausea 2 0 Edema peripheral 2 1 Nasal congestion 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Sinus congestion 1 0 Diarrhea 1 0 Insomnia 1 0 The following information describes the safety experience in hypertension with immediate - release carvedilol .
Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in hypertension in more than 2 , 193 subjects in U . S . clinical trials and in 2 , 976 subjects in international clinical trials .
Approximately 36 % of the total treated population received carvedilol for at least 6 months .
In general , carvedilol was well tolerated at doses up to 50 mg daily .
Most adverse events reported during carvedilol therapy were of mild to moderate severity .
In U . S . controlled clinical trials directly comparing carvedilol monotherapy in doses up to 50 mg ( n = 1 , 142 ) with placebo ( n = 462 ) , 4 . 9 % of carvedilol subjects discontinued for adverse events versus 5 . 2 % of placebo subjects .
Although there was no overall difference in discontinuation rates , discontinuations were more common in the carvedilol group for postural hypotension ( 1 % versus 0 ) .
The overall incidence of adverse events in U . S . placebo - controlled trials was found to increase with increasing dose of carvedilol .
For individual adverse events this could only be distinguished for dizziness , which increased in frequency from 2 % to 5 % as total daily dose increased from 6 . 25 mg to 50 mg as single or divided doses .
Table 4 shows adverse events in U . S . placebo - controlled clinical trials for hypertension that occurred with an incidence of ≥ 1 % regardless of causality and that were more frequent in drug - treated subjects than placebo - treated subjects .
Table 4 .
Adverse Events ( % Occurrence ) in U . S . Placebo - Controlled Hypertension Trials with Immediate - Release Carvedilol ( Incidence ≥ 1 % in Subjects Treated with Carvedilol , Regardless of Causality ) [ 1 ] Adverse Event Carvedilol ( n = 1 , 142 ) Placebo ( n = 462 ) Cardiovascular Bradycardia 2 — Postural hypotension 2 — Peripheral edema 1 — Central Nervous System Dizziness 6 5 Insomnia 2 1 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 2 1 Hematologic Thrombocytopenia 1 — Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia 1 — [ 1 ] Shown are events with rate > 1 % rounded to nearest integer .
Dyspnea and fatigue were also reported in these trials , but the rates were equal or greater in subjects who received placebo .
The following adverse events not described above were reported as possibly or probably related to carvedilol in worldwide open or controlled trials with carvedilol in subjects with hypertension .
Incidence > 0 . 1 % to ≤ 1 % Cardiovascular : Peripheral ischemia , tachycardia .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : Hypokinesia .
Gastrointestinal : Bilirubinemia , increased hepatic enzymes ( 0 . 2 % of hypertension patients were discontinued from therapy because of increases in hepatic enzymes ) [ see Laboratory Abnormalities ] .
Psychiatric : Nervousness , sleep disorder , aggravated depression , impaired concentration , abnormal thinking , paroniria , emotional lability .
Respiratory System : Asthma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Reproductive , male : Decreased libido .
Skin and Appendages : Pruritus , rash erythematous , rash maculopapular , rash psoriaform , photosensitivity reaction .
Special Senses : Tinnitus .
Urinary System : Micturition frequency increased .
Autonomic Nervous System : Dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : Hypokalemia , hypertriglyceridemia .
Hematologic : Anemia , leukopenia .
The following events were reported in ≤ 0 . 1 % of subjects and are potentially important : complete AV block , bundle branch block , myocardial ischemia , cerebrovascular disorder , convulsions , migraine , neuralgia , paresis , anaphylactoid reaction , alopecia , exfoliative dermatitis , amnesia , GI hemorrhage , bronchospasm , pulmonary edema , decreased hearing , respiratory alkalosis , increased BUN , decreased HDL , pancytopenia , and atypical lymphocytes .
Laboratory Abnormalities Reversible elevations in serum transaminases ( ALT or AST ) have been observed during treatment with carvedilol .
Rates of transaminase elevations ( 2 to 3 times the upper limit of normal ) observed during controlled clinical trials have generally been similar between subjects treated with carvedilol and those treated with placebo .
However , transaminase elevations , confirmed by rechallenge , have been observed with carvedilol .
Carvedilol therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in serum potassium , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in fasting serum glucose in hypertensive subjects .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of carvedilol tablets or carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Aplastic anemia .
Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reactions , angioedema , urticaria ) .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Urinary incontinence .
Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders : Interstitial pneumonitis .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 5 ) • • Hypotensive agents ( e . g . , reserpine , MAO inhibitors , clonidine ) may increase the risk of hypotension and / or severe bradycardia .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase .
( 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) • • Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
( 7 . 4 ) • • Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction .
( 7 . 6 ) • • Verapamil - or diltiazem - type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and / or blood pressure .
( 7 . 7 ) • • Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced .
( 7 . 8 ) 7 . 1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme ( such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , and propafenone ) have not been studied , but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R ( + ) enantiomer of carvedilol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up - titration , presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the alpha - blocking R ( + ) enantiomer .
7 . 2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking a beta - blocker and a drug that can deplete catecholamines ( e . g . , reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and / or severe bradycardia .
Concomitant administration of clonidine with a beta - blocker may cause hypotension and bradycardia .
When concomitant treatment with a beta - blocker and clonidine is to be terminated , the beta - blocker should be discontinued first .
Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage .
7 . 3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant subjects suffering from chronic vascular rejection .
In about 30 % of subjects , the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range , while in the remainder no adjustment was needed .
On the average for the group , the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20 % in these subjects .
Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required , it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of carvedilol therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15 % when digoxin and carvedilol are administered concomitantly .
Therefore , increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating , adjusting , or discontinuing carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 5 Inducers / Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Cimetidine increased area under the curve ( AUC ) by about 30 % but caused no change in Cmax [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 6 Amiodarone The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules may enhance the beta - blocking activity , resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction .
Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block , particularly when one agent is added to pre - existing treatment with the other .
7 . 7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance ( rarely with hemodynamic compromise ) has been observed when carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are co - administered with diltiazem .
As with other beta - blockers , if carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type , it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored .
7 . 8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Beta - blockers may enhance the blood - sugar - reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics .
Therefore , in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics , regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 9 Proton Pump Inhibitors There is no clinically meaningful increase in AUC and Cmax with concomitant administration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules with pantoprazole .
7 . 10 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is to be continued perioperatively , particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function , such as ether , cyclopropane , and trichloroethylene , are used [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data regarding use of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in pregnant women are insufficient to determine whether there are drug - associated risks of adverse developmental outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled hypertension in pregnancy .
The use of beta - blockers during the third trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression in the neonate [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
Oral administration of carvedilol to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in post - implantation loss , decreased fetal body weight , and an increased frequency of delayed fetal skeletal development at maternally toxic doses that were 50 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
In addition , oral administration of carvedilol to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis resulted in increased post - implantation loss at doses 25 times the MRHD [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk : Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions : Neonates of women with hypertension who are treated with beta - blockers during the third trimester of pregnancy may be at increased risk for hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression .
Observe newborns for symptoms of hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression and manage accordingly .
Data Animal Data : Studies performed in rats and rabbits given carvedilol during fetal organogenesis revealed increased post - implantation loss in rats at a maternally toxic dose of 300 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) and in rabbits ( in the absence of maternal toxicity ) at doses of 75 mg / kg / day ( 25 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) .
In the rats , there was also a decrease in fetal body weight at 300 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) accompanied by an increased incidence of fetuses with delayed skeletal development .
In rats , the no - effect level for embryo - fetal toxicity was 60 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) ; in rabbits , it was 15 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in rats administered carvedilol from late gestation through lactation , increased embryo - lethality was observed at a maternally toxic dose of 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 32 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) , and pup mortality and delays in physical growth / development were observed at 60 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) in the absence of maternal toxicity .
The no - effect level was 12 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) .
Carvedilol was present in fetal rat tissue .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of carvedilol in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Carvedilol is present in the milk of lactating rats .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Effectiveness of carvedilol in patients younger than 18 years has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The initial clinical trials of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in subjects with hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years or older to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
The following information is available for trials with immediate - release carvedilol .
Of the 2 , 065 hypertensive subjects in U . S . clinical trials of efficacy or safety who were treated with carvedilol , 21 % ( 436 ) were aged 65 years or older .
Of 3 , 722 subjects receiving immediate - release carvedilol in hypertension clinical trials conducted worldwide , 24 % were aged 65 years or older .
With the exception of dizziness in hypertensive subjects ( incidence 8 . 8 % in the elderly versus 6 % in younger subjects ) , no overall differences in the safety or effectiveness were observed between the older subjects and younger subjects in each of these populations .
Similarly , other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage may cause severe hypotension , bradycardia , cardiac insufficiency , cardiogenic shock , and cardiac arrest .
Respiratory problems , bronchospasms , vomiting , lapses of consciousness , and generalized seizures may also occur .
The patient should be placed in a supine position and , where necessary , kept under observation and treated under intensive - care conditions .
The following agents may be administered : For excessive bradycardia : Atropine , 2 mg IV .
To support cardiovascular function : Glucagon , 5 to 10 mg IV rapidly over 30 seconds , followed by a continuous infusion of 5 mg / hour ; sympathomimetics ( dobutamine , isoprenaline , adrenaline ) at doses according to body weight and effect .
If peripheral vasodilation dominates , it may be necessary to administer adrenaline or noradrenaline with continuous monitoring of circulatory conditions .
For therapy - resistant bradycardia , pacemaker therapy should be performed .
For bronchospasm , beta - sympathomimetics ( as aerosol or IV ) or aminophylline IV should be given .
In the event of seizures , slow IV injection of diazepam or clonazepam is recommended .
NOTE : In the event of severe intoxication where there are symptoms of shock , treatment with antidotes must be continued for a sufficiently long period of time consistent with the 7 - to 10 - hour half - life of carvedilol .
There is no experience of overdosage with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
Cases of overdosage with carvedilol alone or in combination with other drugs have been reported .
Quantities ingested in some cases exceeded 1 , 000 milligrams .
Symptoms experienced included low blood pressure and heart rate .
Standard supportive treatment was provided and individuals recovered .
11 DESCRIPTION Carvedilol phosphate is a nonselective beta - adrenergic blocking agent with alpha1 - blocking activity .
It is ( 2 RS ) - 1 - ( 9 H - Carbazol - 4 - yloxy ) - 3 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) ethyl ] amino ] propan - 2 - ol phosphate salt ( 1 : 1 ) hemihydrate .
It is a racemic mixture with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carvedilol phosphate is a white to almost - white solid with a molecular weight of 513 . 5 ( 406 . 5 carvedilol free base ) and a molecular formula of C24H26N2O4 • H3PO4 • 1 / 2 H2O .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are available for once - a - day administration as controlled - release oral capsules containing 10 , 20 , 40 , or 80 mg carvedilol phosphate .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release hard gelatin capsules are filled with carvedilol phosphate controlled - release minitablets that are coated with methacrylic acid copolymers .
Inactive ingredients include crospovidone , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid ethyl acrylate , methacrylic acid methyl methacrylate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , silicon dioxide , talc and triethyl citrate .
The capsule shell contains gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The 20 mg capsule shell also contains FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C yellow # 5 and FD & C yellow # 6 .
The 40 mg capsule shell also contains D & C yellow # 10 and FD & C yellow # 6 .
The 80 mg capsule shell also contains D & C yellow # 10 and FD & C blue # 1 .
The imprinting ink for the 10 mg , 40 mg and 80 mg contains D & C yellow # 10 lake , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C blue # 2 , FD & C red # 40 , iron oxide black , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
The imprinting ink for the 20 mg contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carvedilol is a racemic mixture in which nonselective beta - adrenoreceptor blocking activity is present in the S ( – ) enantiomer and alpha1 - adrenergic blocking activity is present in both R ( + ) and S ( – ) enantiomers at equal potency .
Carvedilol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hypertension : The mechanism by which beta - blockade produces an antihypertensive effect has not been established .
Beta - adrenoreceptor blocking activity has been demonstrated in animal and human studies showing that carvedilol ( 1 ) reduces cardiac output in normal subjects , ( 2 ) reduces exercise - and / or isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 3 ) reduces reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
Significant beta - adrenoreceptor blocking effect is usually seen within 1 hour of drug administration .
Alpha1 - adrenoreceptor blocking activity has been demonstrated in human and animal studies , showing that carvedilol ( 1 ) attenuates the pressor effects of phenylephrine , ( 2 ) causes vasodilation , and ( 3 ) reduces peripheral vascular resistance .
These effects contribute to the reduction of blood pressure and usually are seen within 30 minutes of drug administration .
Due to the alpha1 - receptor blocking activity of carvedilol , blood pressure is lowered more in the standing than in the supine position , and symptoms of postural hypotension ( 1 . 8 % ) , including rare instances of syncope , can occur .
Following oral administration , when postural hypotension has occurred , it has been transient and is uncommon when immediate - release carvedilol is administered with food at the recommended starting dose and titration increments are closely followed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial , the beta1 - blocking effect of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , as measured by heart rate response to submaximal bicycle ergometry , was shown to be equivalent to that observed with immediate - release carvedilol at steady state in adult subjects with essential hypertension .
In hypertensive subjects with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of carvedilol decreased renal vascular resistance with no change in glomerular filtration rate or renal plasma flow .
Changes in excretion of sodium , potassium , uric acid , and phosphorus in hypertensive patients with normal renal function were similar after carvedilol and placebo .
Carvedilol has little effect on plasma catecholamines , plasma aldosterone , or electrolyte levels , but it does significantly reduce plasma renin activity when given for at least 4 weeks .
It also increases levels of atrial natriuretic peptide .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Carvedilol is rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration of immediate - release carvedilol tablets , with an absolute bioavailability of approximately 25 % to 35 % due to a significant degree of first - pass metabolism .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules have approximately 85 % of the bioavailability of immediate - release carvedilol tablets .
For corresponding dosages [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] , the exposure ( AUC , Cmax , trough concentration ) of carvedilol as carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is equivalent to those of immediate - release carvedilol tablets when both are administered with food .
The absorption of carvedilol from carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules is slower and more prolonged compared with the immediate - release carvedilol tablet with peak concentrations achieved approximately 5 hours after administration .
Plasma concentrations of carvedilol increase in a dose - proportional manner over the dosage range of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 10 to 80 mg .
Within - subject and between - subject variability for AUC and Cmax is similar for carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and immediate - release carvedilol .
Effect of Food : Administration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules with a high - fat meal resulted in increases ( ~ 20 % ) in AUC and Cmax compared with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules administered with a standard meal .
Decreases in AUC ( 27 % ) and Cmax ( 43 % ) were observed when carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules were administered in the fasted state compared with administration after a standard meal .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be taken with food .
In a trial with adult subjects , sprinkling the contents of the carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsule on applesauce did not appear to have a significant effect on overall exposure ( AUC ) compared with administration of the intact capsule following a standard meal , but did result in a decrease in Cmax ( 18 % ) .
Distribution : Carvedilol is more than 98 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily with albumin .
The plasma - protein binding is independent of concentration over the therapeutic range .
Carvedilol is a basic , lipophilic compound with a steady - state volume of distribution of approximately 115 L , indicating substantial distribution into extravascular tissues .
Metabolism and Excretion : Carvedilol is extensively metabolized .
Following oral administration of radiolabelled carvedilol to healthy volunteers , carvedilol accounted for only about 7 % of the total radioactivity in plasma as measured by AUC .
Less than 2 % of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine .
Carvedilol is metabolized primarily by aromatic ring oxidation and glucuronidation .
The oxidative metabolites are further metabolized by conjugation via glucuronidation and sulfation .
The metabolites of carvedilol are excreted primarily via the bile into the feces .
Demethylation and hydroxylation at the phenol ring produce 3 active metabolites with beta - receptor blocking activity .
Based on preclinical studies , the 4 ' - hydroxyphenyl metabolite is approximately 13 times more potent than carvedilol for beta - blockade .
Compared with carvedilol , the 3 active metabolites exhibit weak vasodilating activity .
Plasma concentrations of the active metabolites are about one - tenth of those observed for carvedilol and have pharmacokinetics similar to the parent .
Carvedilol undergoes stereoselective first - pass metabolism with plasma levels of R ( + ) - carvedilol approximately 2 to 3 times higher than S ( – ) - carvedilol following oral administration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in healthy subjects .
Apparent clearance is 90 L / h and 213 L / h for R ( + ) - and S ( – ) - carvedilol , respectively .
The primary P450 enzymes responsible for the metabolism of both R ( + ) and S ( – ) - carvedilol in human liver microsomes were CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent CYP3A4 , 2C19 , 1A2 , and 2E1 .
CYP2D6 is thought to be the major enzyme in the 4 ' - and 5 ' - hydroxylation of carvedilol , with a potential contribution from 3A4 .
CYP2C9 is thought to be of primary importance in the O - methylation pathway of S ( – ) - carvedilol .
Carvedilol is subject to the effects of genetic polymorphism with poor metabolizers of debrisoquin ( a marker for cytochrome P450 2D6 ) exhibiting 2 - to 3 - fold higher plasma concentrations of R ( + ) - carvedilol compared with extensive metabolizers .
In contrast , plasma levels of S ( – ) - carvedilol are increased only about 20 % to 25 % in poor metabolizers , indicating this enantiomer is metabolized to a lesser extent by cytochrome P450 2D6 than R ( + ) - carvedilol .
The pharmacokinetics of carvedilol do not appear to be different in poor metabolizers of S - mephenytoin ( patients deficient in cytochrome P450 2C19 ) .
12 . 4 Specific Populations Hypertension : For corresponding dose levels [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] , the pharmacokinetics ( AUC , Cmax , and trough concentrations ) observed with administration of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules were equivalent ( ± 20 % ) to those observed with immediate - release carvedilol tablets following repeat dosing in subjects with essential hypertension .
Geriatric : Plasma levels of carvedilol average about 50 % higher in the elderly compared with young subjects after administration of immediate - release carvedilol .
Hepatic Impairment : No trials have been performed with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in subjects with hepatic impairment .
Compared with healthy subjects , subjects with severe liver impairment ( cirrhosis ) exhibit a 4 - to 7 - fold increase in carvedilol levels .
Carvedilol is contraindicated in patients with severe liver impairment .
Renal Impairment : No trials have been performed with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules in subjects with renal impairment .
Although carvedilol is metabolized primarily by the liver , plasma concentrations of carvedilol have been reported to be increased in patients with renal impairment after dosing with immediate - release carvedilol .
Based on mean AUC data , approximately 40 % to 50 % higher plasma concentrations of carvedilol were observed in subjects with hypertension and moderate to severe renal impairment compared with a control group of subjects with hypertension and normal renal function .
However , the ranges of AUC values were similar for both groups .
Changes in mean peak plasma levels were less pronounced , approximately 12 % to 26 % higher in subjects with impaired renal function .
Consistent with its high degree of plasma protein binding , carvedilol does not appear to be cleared significantly by hemodialysis .
12 . 5 Drug - Drug Interactions Since carvedilol undergoes substantial oxidative metabolism , the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of carvedilol may be affected by induction or inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes .
The following drug interaction trials were performed with immediate - release carvedilol tablets .
Cimetidine : In a pharmacokinetic trial conducted in 10 healthy male subjects , cimetidine ( 1 , 000 mg / day ) increased the steady - state AUC of carvedilol by 30 % with no change in Cmax [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Digoxin : Following concomitant administration of carvedilol ( 25 mg once daily ) and digoxin ( 0 . 25 mg once daily ) for 14 days , steady - state AUC and trough concentrations of digoxin were increased by 14 % and 16 % , respectively , in 12 subjects with hypertension [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Glyburide : In 12 healthy subjects , combined administration of carvedilol ( 25 mg once daily ) and a single dose of glyburide did not result in a clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction for either compound .
Hydrochlorothiazide : A single oral dose of carvedilol 25 mg did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg in 12 subjects with hypertension .
Likewise , hydrochlorothiazide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of carvedilol .
Rifampin : In a pharmacokinetic trial conducted in 8 healthy male subjects , rifampin ( 600 mg daily for 12 days ) decreased the AUC and Cmax of carvedilol by about 70 % [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Torsemide : In a trial of 12 healthy subjects , combined oral administration of carvedilol 25 mg once daily and torsemide 5 mg once daily for 5 days did not result in any significant differences in their pharmacokinetics compared with administration of the drugs alone .
Warfarin : Carvedilol ( 12 . 5 mg twice daily ) did not have an effect on the steady - state prothrombin time ratios and did not alter the pharmacokinetics of R ( + ) - and S ( – ) - warfarin following concomitant administration with warfarin in 9 healthy volunteers .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In 2 - year studies conducted in rats given carvedilol at doses up to 75 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) or in mice given up to 200 mg / kg / day ( 16 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) , carvedilol had no carcinogenic effect .
Carvedilol was negative when tested in a battery of genotoxicity assays , including the Ames and the CHO / HGPRT assays for mutagenicity and the in vitro hamster micronucleus and in vivo human lymphocyte cell tests for clastogenicity .
In a combined fertility / developmental / post - natal toxicity study , rats were given carvedilol ( 12 , 60 , 300 mg / kg / day ) orally by gavage for 2 weeks before mating and through mating , gestation , and weaning for females and for 62 days prior to and through mating for males .
At a dosage of 300 mg / kg / day ( ≥ 50 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) carvedilol was toxic to adult rats ( sedation , reduced weight gain ) and was associated with a reduced number of successful matings , prolonged mating time , fewer corpora lutea and implants per dam , fewer live pups per litter , and delays in physical growth / development .
The no - effect level for overt toxicity and impairment of fertility was 60 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 3 Hypertension A double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , 8 - week trial evaluated the blood pressure - lowering effects of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 20 mg , 40 mg , and 80 mg once daily in 338 subjects with essential hypertension ( sitting diastolic blood pressure [ DBP ] ≥ 90 and ≤ 109 mm Hg ) .
Of 337 evaluable subjects , a total of 273 subjects ( 81 % ) completed the trial .
Of the 64 ( 19 % ) subjects withdrawn from the trial , 10 ( 3 % ) were due to adverse events , 10 ( 3 % ) were due to lack of efficacy ; the remaining 44 ( 13 % ) withdrew for other reasons .
The mean age of the subjects was approximately 53 years , 66 % were male , and the mean sitting systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) and DBP at baseline were 150 mm Hg and 99 mm Hg , respectively .
Dose titration occurred at 2 - week intervals .
Statistically significant reductions in blood pressure as measured by 24 - hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring ( ABPM ) were observed with each dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules compared with placebo .
Placebo - subtracted mean changes from baseline in mean SBP / DBP were – 6 . 1 / – 4 . 0 mm Hg , – 9 . 4 / – 7 . 6 mm Hg , and – 11 . 8 / – 9 . 2 mm Hg for carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 20 mg , 40 mg , and 80 mg , respectively .
Placebo - subtracted mean changes from baseline in mean trough ( average of hours 20 to 24 ) SBP / DBP were – 3 . 3 / – 2 . 8 mm Hg , – 4 . 9 / – 5 . 2 mm Hg , and – 8 . 4 / – 7 . 4 mm Hg for carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 20 mg , 40 mg , and 80 mg , respectively .
The placebo - corrected trough - to - peak ( 3 to 7 hr ) ratio was approximately 0 . 6 for carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 80 mg .
In this trial , assessments of 24 - hour ABPM monitoring demonstrated statistically significant blood pressure reductions with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules throughout the dosing period ( Figure 5 ) .
Figure 5 .
Changes from Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure and Diastolic Blood Pressure Measured by 24 - Hour ABPM [ MULTIMEDIA ] Immediate - release carvedilol was studied in 2 placebo - controlled trials that utilized twice - daily dosing at total daily doses of 12 . 5 to 50 mg .
In these and other trials , the starting dose did not exceed 12 . 5 mg .
At 50 mg / day , carvedilol tablets reduced sitting trough ( 12 - hour ) blood pressure by about 9 / 5 . 5 mm Hg ; at 25 mg / day the effect was about 7 . 5 / 3 . 5 mm Hg .
Comparisons of trough - to - peak blood pressure showed a trough - to - peak ratio for blood pressure response of about 65 % .
Heart rate fell by about 7 . 5 beats / minute at 50 mg / day .
In general , as is true for other beta - blockers , responses were smaller in black than non - black subjects .
There were no age - or gender - related differences in response .
The dose - related blood pressure response was accompanied by a dose - related increase in adverse effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 4 Hypertension with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus In a double - blind trial ( GEMINI ) , carvedilol , added to an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker , was evaluated in a population with mild - to - moderate hypertension and well - controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus .
The mean HbA1c at baseline was 7 . 2 % .
Carvedilol tablets were titrated to a mean dose of 17 . 5 mg twice daily and maintained for 5 months .
Carvedilol tablets had no adverse effect on glycemic control , based on HbA1c measurements ( mean change from baseline of 0 . 02 % , 95 % CI : – 0 . 06 to 0 . 10 , P = NS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 10 mg are white opaque / white opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 899 .
Available in : • Bottles of 30 NDC 16714 - 227 - 01 Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 20 mg are dark green opaque / dark green opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 900 .
Available in : • Bottles of 30 NDC 16714 - 228 - 01 Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 40 mg are yellow opaque / yellow opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 901 .
Available in : • Bottles of 30 NDC 16714 - 229 - 01 Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules 80 mg are green opaque / green opaque capsules , imprinted MUTUAL 902 .
Available in : • Bottles of 30 NDC 16714 - 230 - 01 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] DISPENSE IN TIGHT , LIGHT - RESISTANT CONTAINER .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Patients taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules should be advised of the following : • • Patients should not interrupt or discontinue using carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules without a physician ’ s advice .
• • Patients should consult their physician if they experience signs or symptoms of worsening heart failure such as weight gain or increasing shortness of breath .
• • Patients may experience a drop in blood pressure when standing , resulting in dizziness and , rarely , fainting .
Patients should sit or lie down when these symptoms of lowered blood pressure occur .
• • If experiencing dizziness or fatigue , patients should avoid driving or hazardous tasks .
• • Patients should consult a physician if they experience dizziness or faintness , in case the dosage should be adjusted .
• • Patients should not crush or chew carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • Patients should take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules with food .
• • Diabetic patients should report any changes in blood sugar levels to their physician .
• • Contact lens wearers may experience decreased lacrimation .
All listed brands are trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured for : Northstar Rx LLC Memphis , TN 38141 .
Manufactured by : Frontida BioPharm , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19124 .
Rev . 01 , April 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION CARVEDILOL PHOSPHATE EXTENDED - RELEASE CAPSULES Read the Patient Information that comes with carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
It is important for you to take your medicine every day as directed by your doctor .
If you stop taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules suddenly , you could have chest pain and a heart attack .
If your doctor decides that you should stop taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , your doctor may slowly lower your dose over time before stopping it completely .
What are carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are a prescription medicine that belongs to a group of medicines called " beta - blockers " .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are used , often with other medicines , for the following condition : • • to treat patients with high blood pressure ( hypertension ) Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are not approved for use in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Do not take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules if you : • • have severe heart failure and require certain intravenous medicines that help support circulation .
• • have asthma or other breathing problems .
• • have a slow heartbeat or certain conditions that cause your heart to skip a beat ( irregular heartbeat ) .
• • have liver problems .
• • are allergic to any of the ingredients in carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
See " What are the ingredients in carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ? "
The 20 mg strength of this drug product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
What should I tell my doctor before taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have asthma or other lung problems ( such as bronchitis or emphysema ) .
• • have problems with blood flow in your feet and legs ( peripheral vascular disease ) .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules can make some of your symptoms worse .
• • have diabetes .
• • have thyroid problems .
• • have a condition called pheochromocytoma .
• • have had severe allergic reactions .
• • are scheduled for surgery and will be given anesthetic agents .
• • are scheduled for cataract surgery and have taken or are currently taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • are pregnant or trying to become pregnant .
It is not known if carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules are safe for your unborn baby .
You and your doctor should talk about the best way to control your high blood pressure during pregnancy .
• • are breastfeeding .
It is not known if carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and certain other medicines can affect each other and cause serious side effects .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules may affect the way other medicines work .
Also , other medicines may affect how well carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules work .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist before you start a new medicine .
How should I take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
• • Take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules exactly as prescribed .
Take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules one time each day with food .
It is important that you take carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules only one time each day .
To lessen possible side effects , your doctor might begin with a low dose and then slowly increase the dose .
• • Swallow carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules whole .
Do not chew or crush carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • If you have trouble swallowing carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules whole : • • The capsule may be carefully opened and the contents sprinkled over a spoonful of applesauce which should be eaten right away .
The applesauce should not be warm .
• • Do not sprinkle contents on foods other than applesauce .
• • Do not stop taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and do not change the amount of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules you take without talking to your doctor .
• • If you miss a dose of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , take your dose as soon as you remember , unless it is time to take your next dose .
Take your next dose at the usual time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
• • If you take too much carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules , call your doctor or poison control center right away .
What should I avoid while taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules can cause you to feel dizzy , tired , or faint .
Do not drive a car , use machinery , or do anything that needs you to be alert if you have these symptoms .
What are possible side effects of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Serious side effects of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules include : • • chest pain and heart attack if you suddenly stop taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
See " What is the most important information I should know about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ? "
• • slow heart beat .
• • low blood pressure ( which may cause dizziness or fainting when you stand up ) .
If these happen , sit or lie down , and tell your doctor right away .
• • worsening heart failure .
Tell your doctor right away if you have signs and symptoms that your heart failure may be worse , such as weight gain or increased shortness of breath .
• • changes in your blood sugar .
If you have diabetes , tell your doctor if you have any changes in your blood sugar levels .
• • masking ( hiding ) the symptoms of low blood sugar , especially a fast heartbeat .
• • new or worsening symptoms of peripheral vascular disease .
• • leg pain that happens when you walk , but goes away when you rest • • no feeling ( numbness ) in your legs or feet while you are resting • • cold legs or feet • • masking the symptoms of hyperthyroidism ( overactive thyroid ) , such as a fast heartbeat .
• • worsening of severe allergic reactions .
Medicines to treat a severe allergic reaction may not work as well while you are taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
• • rare but serious allergic reactions ( including hives or swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and / or throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing ) have happened in patients who were on carvedilol tablets or carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
These reactions can be life - threatening .
In some cases , these reactions happened in patients who had been on carvedilol tablets before taking carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
Common side effects of carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules include shortness of breath , weight gain , diarrhea , and tiredness .
If you wear contact lenses , you may have fewer tears or dry eyes that can become bothersome .
Call your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or do n't go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Store carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Safely throw away carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules that are out of date or no longer needed .
Keep carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions other than those described in patient information leaflets .
Do not use carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules that is written for healthcare professionals .
Please address medical inquiries to 1 - 800 - 206 - 7821 .
What are the ingredients in carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules ?
Active ingredient : carvedilol phosphate Inactive ingredients : crospovidone , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid ethyl acrylate , methacrylic acid methyl methacrylate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , silicon dioxide , talc and triethyl citrate .
The capsule shell contains gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The 20 mg capsule shell also contains FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C yellow # 5 and FD & C yellow # 6 .
The 40 mg capsule shell also contains D & C yellow # 10 and FD & C yellow # 6 .
The 80 mg capsule shell also contains D & C yellow # 10 and FD & C blue # 1 .
The imprinting ink for the 10 mg , 40 mg and 80 mg contains D & C yellow # 10 lake , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C blue # 2 , FD & C red # 40 , iron oxide black , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
The imprinting ink for the 20 mg contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules come in the following strengths : 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg , 80 mg .
What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force of blood in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood through the body and causes damage to blood vessels .
Carvedilol phosphate extended - release capsules can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower blood pressure may lower your chance of having a stroke or heart attack .
Manufactured for : Northstar Rx LLC Memphis , TN 38141 .
Manufactured by : Frontida BioPharm , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19124 .
Rev . 01 , April 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
