Description Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP contain the synthetic anticholinergic , glycopyrrolate .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium compound with the following chemical name : 3 - [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 di - methyl bromide .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg are white to off - white , round , flat beveled edge tablet debossed with “ MCR 117 ” separated by break line on one side and plain on other side .
Each tablet contains : Glycopyrrolate , USP 1 mg .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg are white to off white , round , flat beveled edge tablet debossed with “ AC 108 ” separated by break line on one side and plain on other side .
Each tablet contains : Glycopyrrolate , USP 2 mg Inactive Ingredients : Dibasic Calcium Phosphate , Lactose , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , Sodium Starch Glycolate .
ACTIONS Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sino - atrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands , and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
INDICATIONS For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus ; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with use of Glycopyrrolate Tablets .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Glycopyrrolate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuro - muscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
Pregnancy The safety of this drug during pregnancy has not been established .
The use of any drug during pregnancy requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
Reproduction studies in rats revealed no teratogenic effects from glycopyrrolate ; however , the potent anticholinergic action of this agent resulted in diminished rates of conception and of survival at weaning , in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
Information on possible adverse effects in the pregnant female is limited to uncontrolled data derived from marketing experience .
Such experience has revealed no reports of teratogenic or other fetus - damaging potential .
No controlled studies to establish the safety of the drug in pregnancy have been performed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Since there is no adequate experience in pediatric patients who have received this drug , safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS Use Glycopyrrolate Tablets with caution in the elderly and in all patients with : • • Autonomic neuropathy .
• • Hepatic or renal disease .
• • Ulcerative colitis - large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate “ toxic megacolon , ” a serious complication of the disease .
• • Hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac tachyarrhythmias , tachycardia , hypertension and prostatic hypertrophy .
• • Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition .
DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics produce certain effects , most of which are extensions of their fundamental pharmacological actions .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics in general may include xerostomia ; decreased sweating ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; dilatation of the pupil ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headaches ; nervousness ; mental confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations .
Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound ; hence , its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide .
For this reason the occurrence of CNS related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage of glycopyrrolate are peripheral in nature rather than central .
• 1 .
To guard against further absorption of the drug - use gastric lavage , cathartics and / or enemas .
• 2 .
To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects ( residual mydriasis , dry mouth , etc . ) - utilize a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase , such as neostigmine methylsulfate .
• 3 .
To combat hypotension - use pressor amines ( norepinephrine , metaraminol ) i . v . ; and supportive care .
• 4 .
To combat respiratory depression - administer oxygen ; utilize a respiratory stimulant such as Dopram ® i . v . ; artificial respiration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Gylcopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg and 2 mg should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions .
The presently recommended maximum daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg : The recommended initial dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg for adults is one tablet three times daily ( in the morning , early afternoon , and at bedtime ) .
Some patients may require two tablets at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms .
For maintenance , a dosage of one tablet twice a day is frequently adequate .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg : The recommended dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg for adults is one tablet two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years .
HOW SUPPLIED Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg are white to off - white , round , flat beveled edge tablet debossed with “ MCR 117 ” separated by break line on one side and plain on other side .
Packaged in bottles of 100 .
Carton of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 6709 - 61 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
Dispense in tight container .
Distributed by : Avet Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 200146 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number Rev : 12 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
