Dosage and Administration , Dose Modifications for Adverse Reactions ( 2 . 3 ) 5 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions , Severe Hypersensitivity ( 5 . 1 ) 5 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions , Diarrhea or Colitis ( 5 . 5 ) 5 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PIQRAY is indicated in combination with fulvestrant for the treatment of postmenopausal women , and men , with hormone receptor ( HR ) - positive , human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) - negative , PIK3CA - mutated , advanced or metastatic breast cancer as detected by an FDA - approved test following progression on or after an endocrine - based regimen .
PIQRAY is a kinase inhibitor indicated in combination with fulvestrant for the treatment of postmenopausal women , and men , with hormone receptor ( HR ) - positive , human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) - negative , PIK3CA - mutated , advanced or metastatic breast cancer as detected by an FDA - approved test following progression on or after an endocrine - based regimen .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Dose : 300 mg ( two 150 mg tablets ) taken orally once daily with food .
( 2 . 2 ) • For adverse reactions , consider dose interruption , dose reduction , or discontinuation .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Patient Selection Select patients for the treatment of HR - positive , HER2 - negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer with PIQRAY , based on the presence of one or more PIK3CA mutations in tumor tissue or plasma specimens [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
If no mutation is detected in a plasma specimen , test tumor tissue .
Information on FDA - approved tests for the detection of PIK3CA mutations in breast cancer is available at : http : / / www . fda . gov / CompanionDiagnostics .
2 . 2 Dosage and Administration The recommended dose of PIQRAY is 300 mg ( two 150 mg film - coated tablets ) taken orally , once daily , with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should take their dose of PIQRAY at approximately the same time each day .
Swallow PIQRAY tablets whole ( tablets should not be chewed , crushed or split prior to swallowing ) .
No tablet should be ingested if it is broken , cracked , or otherwise not intact .
If a dose of PIQRAY is missed , it can be taken with food within 9 hours after the time it is usually taken .
After more than 9 hours , skip the dose for that day .
The next day , take PIQRAY at the usual time .
If the patient vomits after taking the dose , advise the patient not to take an additional dose on that day , and to resume the dosing schedule the next day at the usual time .
When given with PIQRAY , the recommended dose of fulvestrant is 500 mg administered on Days 1 , 15 , and 29 , and once monthly thereafter .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information for fulvestrant .
2 . 3 Dose Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions ( ARs ) are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : PIQRAY Dose Reduction Guidelines for Adverse Reactions11Only one dose reduction is permitted for pancreatitis .
2 If further dose reduction below 200 mg once daily is required , discontinue PIQRAY .
PIQRAY Dose Level Dose and Schedule Number and Strength of Tablets Starting dose 300 mg once daily Two 150 mg tablets First - dose reduction 250 mg once daily One 200 mg tablet and one 50 mg tablet Second - dose reduction 200 mg once daily2 One 200 mg tablet Tables 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 summarize recommendations for dose interruption , reduction , or discontinuation of PIQRAY in the management of specific ARs .
Cutaneous Adverse Reactions If a severe cutaneous adverse reaction ( SCAR ) is confirmed , permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Do not reintroduce PIQRAY in patients who have experienced previous SCAR during PIQRAY treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Table 2 : Dose Modification and Management for Rash and Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions ( SCARs ) 1 Grading according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) Version 5 . 0 .
2 For all grades of rash , consider consultation with a dermatologist .
3 Antihistamines administered prior to rash onset may decrease incidence and severity of rash based on the SOLAR - 1 trial .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] Grade1 , 2 Recommendation3 Grade 1 ( < 10 % body surface area ( BSA ) with active skin toxicity ) No PIQRAY dose adjustment required .
Initiate topical corticosteroid treatment .
Consider adding oral antihistamine to manage symptoms .
If active rash is not improved within 28 days of appropriate treatment , add a low dose systemic corticosteroid .
If the etiology is SCAR , permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Grade 2 ( 10 % - 30 % BSA with active skin toxicity ) No PIQRAY dose adjustment required .
Initiate or intensify topical corticosteroid and oral antihistamine treatment .
Consider low dose systemic corticosteroid treatment .
If rash improves to Grade ≤ 1 within 10 days , systemic corticosteroid may be discontinued .
If the etiology is SCAR , permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Grade 3 ( e . g . , severe rash not responsive to medical management ) ( > 30 % BSA with active skin toxicity ) Interrupt PIQRAY .
Initiate or intensify topical / systemic corticosteroid and oral antihistamine treatment .
If the etiology is SCAR , permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
If the etiology is not a SCAR , interrupt dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 , then resume PIQRAY at next lower dose level .
Grade 4 ( e . g . , severe bullous , blistering or exfoliating skin conditions ) ( any % BSA associated with extensive superinfection , with IV antibiotics indicated ; life - threatening consequences ) Permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Hyperglycemia Before initiating treatment with PIQRAY , test fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , HbA1c , and optimize blood glucose .
After initiating treatment with PIQRAY , monitor fasting glucose ( FPG or fasting blood glucose ) at least once every week for the first 2 weeks , then at least once every 4 weeks , and as clinically indicated .
Monitor HbA1c every 3 months and as clinically indicated .
In patients with risk factors for hyperglycemia , monitor fasting glucose more closely and as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Table 3 : Dose Modification and Management for HyperglycemiaAbbreviation : ULN , upper limit of normal .
1 FPG / Fasting Blood Glucose / Grade levels reflect hyperglycemia grading according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) Version 4 . 03 .
2 Initiate applicable anti - hyperglycemic medications , including metformin , SGLT2 inhibitors or insulin sensitizers ( such as thiazolidinediones or dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 inhibitors ) , and review respective prescribing information for dosing and dose titration recommendations , including local hyperglycemic treatment guidelines .
Metformin was recommended in the SOLAR - 1 trial with the following guidance : Initiate metformin 500 mg once daily .
Based on tolerability , metformin dose may be increased to 500 mg twice daily , followed by 500 mg with breakfast , and 1 , 000 mg with dinner , followed by further increase to 1 , 000 mg twice daily if needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
3 As recommended in the SOLAR - 1 trial , insulin may be used for 1 - 2 days until hyperglycemia resolves .
However , this may not be necessary in the majority of PIQRAY - induced hyperglycemia , given the short half - life of PIQRAY and the expectation of glucose levels normalizing after interruption of PIQRAY .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Fasting Plasma Glucose ( FPG ) / Fasting Blood Glucose Values1 Recommendation Dose modifications and management should only be based on fasting glucose values ( FPG or fasting blood glucose ) .
Grade 1 Fasting glucose > ULN - 160 mg / dL or > ULN - 8 . 9 mmol / L No PIQRAY dose adjustment required .
Initiate or intensify anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 .
Grade 2 Fasting glucose > 160 - 250 mg / dL or > 8 . 9 - 13 . 9 mmol / L No PIQRAY dose adjustment required .
Initiate or intensify anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 .
If fasting glucose does not decrease to ≤ 160 mg / dL or 8 . 9 mmol / L within 21 days under appropriate anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 , 3 , reduce PIQRAY dose by 1 dose level and follow fasting glucose value specific recommendations .
Grade 3 > 250 - 500 mg / dL or > 13 . 9 - 27 . 8 mmol / L Interrupt PIQRAY .
Initiate or intensify oral anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 and consider additional anti - hyperglycemic medications3 for 1 - 2 days until hyperglycemia improves , as clinically indicated .
Administer intravenous hydration and consider appropriate treatment ( e . g . , intervention for electrolyte / ketoacidosis / hyperosmolar disturbances ) .
If fasting glucose decreases to ≤ 160 mg / dL or 8 . 9 mmol / L within 3 to 5 days under appropriate anti - hyperglycemic treatment , resume PIQRAY at 1 lower dose level .
If fasting glucose does not decrease to ≤ 160 mg / dL or 8 . 9 mmol / L within 3 to 5 days under appropriate anti - hyperglycemic treatment , consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of hyperglycemia is recommended .
If fasting glucose does not decrease to ≤ 160 mg / dL or 8 . 9 mmol / L within 21 days following appropriate anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 , 3 , permanently discontinue PIQRAY treatment .
Grade 4 > 500 mg / dL or > 27 . 8 mmol / L Interrupt PIQRAY .
Initiate or intensify appropriate anti - hyperglycemic treatment2 , 3 ( administer intravenous hydration and consider appropriate treatment ( e . g . , intervention for electrolyte / ketoacidosis / hyperosmolar disturbances ) ) , re - check fasting glucose within 24 hours and as clinically indicated .
If fasting glucose decreases to ≤ 500 mg / dL or 27 . 8 mmol / L , follow fasting glucose value - specific recommendations for Grade 3 .
If fasting glucose is confirmed at > 500 mg / dL or 27 . 8 mmol / L , permanently discontinue PIQRAY treatment .
Diarrhea or Colitis Table 4 : Dose Modification and Management for Diarrhea or Colitis 1 Grading according to CTCAE Version 5 . 0 .
2 For Grade 2 and 3 colitis , consider additional treatment , such as enteric - acting and / or systemic steroids .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Grade1 Recommendation Grade 1 No PIQRAY dose adjustment is required .
Initiate appropriate medical therapy and monitor as clinically indicated .
Grade 2 Interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 , then resume PIQRAY at the same dose level .
For recurrent Grade ≥ 2 , interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 , then resume PIQRAY at the next lower dose level .
Initiate or intensify appropriate medical therapy and monitor as clinically indicated2 .
Grade 3 Interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 , then resume PIQRAY at the next lower dose level .
Initiate or intensify appropriate medical therapy and monitor as clinically indicated2 .
Grade 4 Permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Other Toxicities Table 5 : Dose Modification and Management for Other Toxicities ( Excluding Hyperglycemia , Rash and Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions , and Diarrhea or Colitis ) 1 Grading according to CTCAE Version 5 . 0 .
2 For Grade 2 and 3 pancreatitis , interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade < 2 and resume at next lower - dose level .
Only one dose reduction is permitted .
If toxicity reoccurs , permanently discontinue PIQRAY treatment .
3 For Grade 2 total bilirubin elevation , interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 and resume at the same dose if resolved in ≤ 14 days or resume at the next lower dose level if improved in > 14 days .
Grade1 Recommendation Grade 1 or 2 No PIQRAY dose adjustment is required .
Initiate appropriate medical therapy and monitor as clinically indicated2 , 3 .
Grade 3 Interrupt PIQRAY dose until improvement to Grade ≤ 1 , then resume PIQRAY at the next lower dose level .
Grade 4 Permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for dose modification guidelines in the event of toxicity and for other relevant safety information .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 50 mg , 150 mg , and 200 mg alpelisib 50 mg : Light pink , unscored , round and curved with beveled edges film - coated tablet , imprinted with “ L7 ” on one side and “ NVR ” on the other side .
150 mg : Pale red , unscored , ovaloid and curved with beveled edges film - coated tablet , imprinted with “ UL7 ” on one side and “ NVR ” on the other side .
200 mg : Light red , unscored , ovaloid and curved with beveled edges film - coated tablet , imprinted with “ YL7 ” on one side and “ NVR ” on the other side .
Tablets : 50 mg , 150 mg , and 200 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PIQRAY is contraindicated in patients with severe hypersensitivity to it or any of its components [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Severe hypersensitivity to PIQRAY or to any of its components .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe Hypersensitivity : Permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Promptly initiate appropriate treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions ( SCARs ) : PIQRAY can cause SCARs , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , erythema multiforme ( EM ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) .
Interrupt PIQRAY for signs or symptoms of SCARs .
Permanently discontinue PIQRAY if SCARs are confirmed .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hyperglycemia : PIQRAY can cause severe hyperglycemia , in some cases associated with hyperglycemic hyperosmolar non - ketotic syndrome ( HHNKS ) or ketoacidosis .
The safety of PIQRAY in patients with Type 1 or uncontrolled Type 2 diabetes has not been established .
Before initiating treatment with PIQRAY , test fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , HbA1c , and optimize blood glucose .
After initiating treatment , monitor periodically .
Initiate or optimize anti - hyperglycemic medications as clinically indicated .
Interrupt , reduce dose , or discontinue PIQRAY if severe hyperglycemia occurs .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 3 ) • Pneumonitis : PIQRAY can cause severe pneumonitis and interstitial lung disease .
Monitor for clinical symptoms or radiological changes .
Interrupt or discontinue PIQRAY if severe pneumonitis occurs .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • Diarrhea or Colitis : PIQRAY causes diarrhea in most patients and may be severe , resulting in dehydration and acute kidney injury .
Advise patients to start antidiarrheal treatment , increase oral fluids , and notify their healthcare provider if diarrhea occurs .
Colitis has been reported in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Monitor for diarrhea and additional symptoms of colitis , including abdominal pain and mucus or blood in stool .
Interrupt , reduce dose , or discontinue PIQRAY if severe diarrhea or colitis occurs .
Patients with colitis may require additional treatment , such as enteric - acting and / or systemic steroids .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 5 , 6 . 2 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : PIQRAY can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 6 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for pregnancy and contraception information .
5 . 1 Severe Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , can occur in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Severe hypersensitivity reactions were manifested by symptoms , including , but not limited to , dyspnea , flushing , rash , fever , or tachycardia .
The incidence of Grade 3 and 4 hypersensitivity reactions was 0 . 7 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Angioedema has been reported in the postmarketing setting in patients treated with PIQRAY [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of severe hypersensitivity reactions .
Permanently discontinue PIQRAY in the event of severe hypersensitivity .
5 . 2 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCARs ) , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , erythema multiforme ( EM ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) can occur in patients treated with PIQRAY .
In the SOLAR - 1 study , SJS and EM were reported in 0 . 4 % and 1 . 1 % of the patients , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) was reported in patients treated with PIQRAY in the postmarketing setting [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
If signs or symptoms of SCARs occur , interrupt PIQRAY until the etiology of the reaction has been determined .
Consultation with a dermatologist is recommended .
If a SCAR is confirmed , permanently discontinue PIQRAY .
Do not reintroduce PIQRAY in patients who have experienced previous severe cutaneous adverse reactions during PIQRAY treatment .
If a SCAR is not confirmed , PIQRAY may require dose modifications , topical corticosteroids , or oral antihistamine treatment as described in Table 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of SCARs ( e . g . , a prodrome of fever , flu - like symptoms , mucosal lesions , progressive skin rash , or lymphadenopathy ) .
5 . 3 Hyperglycemia Severe hyperglycemia , in some cases associated with hyperglycemic hyperosmolar non - ketotic syndrome ( HHNKS ) or ketoacidosis has occurred in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have occurred in the postmarketing setting .
Hyperglycemia was reported in 65 % of patients treated with PIQRAY .
Grade 3 ( FPG > 250 to 500 mg / dL ) and Grade 4 ( FPG > 500 mg / dL ) hyperglycemia was reported in 33 % and 3 . 9 % of patients , respectively .
Ketoacidosis was reported in 0 . 7 % of patients ( n = 2 ) treated with PIQRAY .
Among the patients who experienced Grade ≥ 2 ( FPG 160 to 250 mg / dL ) hyperglycemia , the median time to first occurrence of hyperglycemia was 15 days ( range , 5 to 517 days ) .
In the 187 patients with hyperglycemia , 87 % ( 163 / 187 ) were managed with anti - hyperglycemic medication , and 76 % ( 142 / 187 ) reported use of metformin as single agent or in combination with other anti - hyperglycemic medication [ i . e . , insulin , dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitors , and sulfonylureas ] .
In patients with Grade ≥ 2 hyperglycemia with at least 1 grade improvement ( n = 153 ) , median time to improvement from the first event was 8 days ( range , 2 to 65 days ) .
In all patients with elevated FPG who continued fulvestrant treatment after discontinuing PIQRAY ( n = 54 ) , 96 % ( n = 52 ) of patients had FPG levels that returned to baseline .
Before initiating treatment with PIQRAY , test fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , HbA1c , and optimize blood glucose .
After initiating treatment with PIQRAY , monitor fasting glucose ( FPG or fasting blood glucose ) at least once every week for the first 2 weeks , then at least once every 4 weeks , and as clinically indicated .
Monitor HbA1c every 3 months and as clinically indicated .
Monitor fasting glucose more frequently for the first few weeks during treatment with PIQRAY in patients with risk factors for hyperglycemia , such as obesity ( BMI ≥ 30 ) , elevated FPG , HbA1c at the upper limit of normal or above , use of concomitant systemic corticosteroids , or age ≥ 75 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
If a patient experiences hyperglycemia after initiating treatment with PIQRAY , monitor fasting glucose as clinically indicated , and at least twice weekly until fasting glucose decreases to normal levels .
During treatment with anti - hyperglycemic medication , continue monitoring fasting glucose at least once a week for 8 weeks , followed by once every 2 weeks and as clinically indicated .
Consider consultation with a healthcare practitioner with expertise in the treatment of hyperglycemia and counsel patients on lifestyle changes .
The safety of PIQRAY in patients with Type 1 and uncontrolled Type 2 diabetes has not been established as these patients were excluded from the SOLAR - 1 trial .
Patients with a medical history of controlled Type 2 diabetes were included .
Patients with a history of diabetes mellitus may require intensified hyperglycemic treatment .
Closely monitor patients with diabetes .
Based on the severity of the hyperglycemia , PIQRAY may require dose interruption , reduction , or discontinuation as described in Table 3 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of hyperglycemia ( e . g . , excessive thirst , urinating more often than usual or higher amount of urine than usual , or increased appetite with weight loss ) .
5 . 4 Pneumonitis Severe pneumonitis , including acute interstitial pneumonitis and interstitial lung disease , can occur in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Pneumonitis was reported in 1 . 8 % of patients treated with PIQRAY .
In patients who have new or worsening respiratory symptoms or are suspected to have developed pneumonitis , interrupt PIQRAY immediately and evaluate the patient for pneumonitis .
Consider a diagnosis of non - infectious pneumonitis in patients presenting with non - specific respiratory signs and symptoms , such as hypoxia , cough , dyspnea , or interstitial infiltrates on radiologic exams and in whom infectious , neoplastic , and other causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations .
Permanently discontinue PIQRAY in all patients with confirmed pneumonitis .
Advise patients to immediately report new or worsening respiratory symptoms .
5 . 5 Diarrhea or Colitis Severe diarrhea , resulting in dehydration and in some cases in acute kidney injury , can occur in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Most patients ( 58 % ) experienced diarrhea during treatment with PIQRAY .
Grade 3 diarrhea occurred in 7 % ( n = 19 ) of patients .
Among patients with Grade 2 or 3 diarrhea ( n = 71 ) , the median time to onset was 46 days ( range , 1 to 442 days ) .
In clinical trials , 63 % of patients who experienced diarrhea required antidiarrheal medications ( e . g . , loperamide ) to manage symptoms .
Dose reductions of PIQRAY were required in 6 % of patients , and 2 . 8 % of patients permanently discontinued PIQRAY due to diarrhea .
Colitis has been reported in the postmarketing setting in patients treated with PIQRAY [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients for diarrhea and additional symptoms of colitis , such as abdominal pain and mucus or blood in stool .
Based on the severity of the diarrhea or colitis , PIQRAY may require dose interruption , reduction , or discontinuation as described in Table 4 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to start antidiarrheal treatment , increase oral fluids , and notify their healthcare provider if diarrhea occurs while taking PIQRAY .
Patients with colitis may require additional treatment , such as enteric - acting and / or systemic steroids .
5 . 6 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings in animals and its mechanism of action , PIQRAY can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of alpelisib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused adverse developmental outcomes , including embryo - fetal mortality ( post - implantation loss ) , reduced fetal weights , and increased incidences of fetal malformations at maternal exposures based on area under the curve ( AUC ) that were ≥ 0 . 8 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg / day .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use condoms and effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for pregnancy and contraception information .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Severe Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pneumonitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Diarrhea or Colitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities ( all Grades , incidence ≥ 20 % ) were glucose increased , creatinine increased , diarrhea , rash , lymphocyte count decreased , gamma - glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) increased , nausea , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) increased , fatigue , hemoglobin decreased , lipase increased , decreased appetite , stomatitis , vomiting , weight decreased , calcium decreased , glucose decreased , activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) prolonged , and alopecia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of PIQRAY was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial ( SOLAR - 1 ) in 571 patients with HR - positive , HER2 - negative , advanced or metastatic breast cancer enrolled into two cohorts , with or without a PIK3CA mutation [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients received either PIQRAY 300 mg plus fulvestrant ( n = 284 ) or placebo plus fulvestrant ( n = 287 ) .
Fulvestrant 500 mg was administered intramuscularly on Cycle 1 , Day 1 and 15 , and then at Day 1 of each 28 - day cycle during treatment phase .
Two patients ( 0 . 7 % ) died while on treatment with PIQRAY plus fulvestrant due to causes other than the underlying malignancy .
Causes of death included one cardio - respiratory arrest and one second primary malignancy .
Neither was suspected to be related to study treatment .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 35 % of patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant .
Serious adverse reactions in > 2 % of patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant included hyperglycemia ( 10 % ) , rash ( 3 . 5 % ) , diarrhea ( 2 . 8 % ) , acute kidney injury ( 2 . 5 % ) , abdominal pain ( 2 . 1 % ) , and anemia ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) was reported in 4 . 2 % of patients ( 12 / 284 ) in the PIQRAY plus fulvestrant arm compared to 1 . 4 % of patients ( 4 / 287 ) in the placebo arm .
All patients experiencing ONJ had prior or concomitant bisphosphonates or RANK - ligand inhibitor administration .
Among patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant , 4 . 6 % permanently discontinued both PIQRAY and fulvestrant and 21 % permanently discontinued PIQRAY alone , due to ARs .
The most frequent ARs leading to treatment discontinuation of PIQRAY in > 2 % patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant were hyperglycemia ( 6 % ) , rash ( 4 . 2 % ) , diarrhea ( 2 . 8 % ) , and fatigue ( 2 . 5 % ) .
Dose reductions due to ARs occurred in 55 % of patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant .
The most frequent ARs leading to dose reduction in > 2 % patients receiving PIQRAY plus fulvestrant were hyperglycemia ( 29 % ) , rash ( 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 6 % ) , stomatitis ( 3 . 5 % ) , and mucosal inflammation ( 2 . 1 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities ( all grades , incidence ≥ 20 % ) were glucose increased , creatinine increased , diarrhea , rash , lymphocyte count decreased , gamma - glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) increased , nausea , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) increased , fatigue , hemoglobin decreased , lipase increased , decreased appetite , stomatitis , vomiting , weight decreased , calcium decreased , glucose decreased , activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) prolonged , and alopecia .
Adverse reactions and laboratory abnormalities are listed in Table 6 and Table 7 , respectively .
Table 6 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 10 % and ≥ 2 % Higher than Placebo Arm in SOLAR - 1 ( All Grades ) Grading according to CTCAE Version 4 . 03 .
1 Stomatitis : including stomatitis , aphthous ulcer and mouth ulceration .
2 Abdominal pain : abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , abdominal pain lower .
3 Fatigue : including fatigue , asthenia .
4 Mucosal dryness : including dry mouth , mucosal dryness , vulvovaginal dryness .
5 Urinary tract infection : including UTI and single case of urosepsis .
6 Dysgeusia : including dysgeusia , ageusia , hypogeusia .
7 Rash : including rash , rash maculo - papular , rash macular , rash generalized , rash papular , rash pruritic .
8 Dry skin : including dry skin , skin fissures , xerosis , xeroderma .
* No Grade 4 adverse reactions were reported .
PIQRAY plus fulvestrant N = 284 Placebo plus fulvestrant N = 287 Adverse reactions All Grades Grade 3 - 4 All Grades Grade 3 - 4 % % % % Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 58 7 * 16 0 . 3 * Nausea 45 2 . 5 * 22 0 . 3 * Stomatitis1 30 2 . 5 * 6 0 * Vomiting 27 0 . 7 * 10 0 . 3 * Abdominal pain2 17 1 . 4 * 11 1 * Dyspepsia 11 0 * 6 0 * General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue3 42 5 * 29 1 * Mucosal inflammation 19 2 . 1 * 1 0 * Edema peripheral 15 0 * 5 0 . 3 * Pyrexia 14 0 . 7 4 . 9 0 . 3 * Mucosal dryness4 12 0 . 4 * 4 . 2 0 * Infections and infestations Urinary tract infection5 10 0 . 7 * 5 1 * Investigations Weight decreased 27 3 . 9 * 2 . 1 0 * Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 36 0 . 7 * 10 0 . 3 * Nervous system disorders Dysgeusia6 18 0 . 4 * 3 . 5 0 * Headache 18 0 . 7 * 13 0 * Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash7 52 20 * 7 0 . 3 * Alopecia 20 0 * 2 . 4 0 * Pruritus 18 0 . 7 * 6 0 * Dry skin8 18 0 . 4 * 3 . 8 0 * Among the patients with Grade 2 or 3 rash , the median time to first onset of Grade 2 or 3 rash was 12 days .
A subgroup of 86 patients received prophylaxis , including antihistamines , prior to onset of rash .
In these patients , rash was reported less frequently than in the overall population , for all grades rash ( 27 % vs 54 % ) , Grade 3 rash ( 12 % vs 20 % ) and rash leading to permanent discontinuation of PIQRAY ( 3 . 5 % vs 4 . 2 % ) .
Of the 153 patients who experienced rash , 141 had resolution of the rash .
Table 7 : Laboratory Abnormalities Occurring in ≥ 10 % of Patients in SOLAR - 11 Glucose increase is an expected laboratory abnormality of PI3K inhibition .
* No Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities were reported .
PIQRAY plus fulvestrant N = 284 Placebo plus fulvestrant N = 287 Laboratory Abnormality All Grades Grade 3 - 4 All Grades Grade 3 - 4 % % % % Hematological parameters Lymphocyte count decreased 52 8 40 4 . 5 * Hemoglobin decreased 42 4 . 2 * 29 1 * Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time ( aPTT ) prolonged 21 0 . 7 * 16 0 . 3 * Platelet count decreased 14 1 . 1 6 0 * Biochemical parameters Glucose increased1 79 39 34 1 Creatinine increased 67 2 . 8 * 25 0 . 7 * Gamma Glutamyl Transferase ( GGT ) increased 52 11 44 10 Alanine Aminotransferase ( ALT ) increased 44 3 . 5 34 2 . 4 * Lipase increased 42 7 25 6 Calcium ( corrected ) decreased 27 2 . 1 20 1 . 4 Glucose decreased 26 0 . 4 14 0 * Potassium decreased 14 6 2 . 8 0 . 7 * Albumin decreased 14 0 * 8 0 * Magnesium decreased 11 0 . 4 * 4 . 2 0 * 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of PIQRAY .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Colitis Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Hyperglycemic hyperosmolar nonketotic syndrome ( HHNKS ) .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Angioedema , Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid coadministration of PIQRAY with a strong CYP3A4 inducer .
Consider an alternative concomitant drug with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4 .
( 7 . 1 ) • Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) Inhibitors : Avoid the use of BCRP inhibitors in patients treated with PIQRAY .
If unable to use alternative drugs , closely monitor for increased adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP2C9 Substrates : Closely monitor when PIQRAY is coadministered with CYP2C9 substrates where decreases in the plasma concentration of these drugs may reduce activity .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on PIQRAY CYP3A4 Inducer Coadministration of PIQRAY with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases alpelisib concentration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may reduce alpelisib efficacy .
Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers and consider an alternative concomitant drug with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4 .
Breast Cancer Resistance Protein Inhibitors Coadministration of PIQRAY with a breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) inhibitor may increase alpelisib concentration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may increase the risk of toxicities .
Avoid the use of BCRP inhibitors in patients treated with PIQRAY .
If unable to use alternative drugs , when PIQRAY is used in combination with BCRP inhibitors , closely monitor for increased adverse reactions .
7 . 2 Effect of PIQRAY on Other Drugs CYP2C9 Substrates Coadministration of PIQRAY with CYP2C9 substrates ( e . g . , warfarin ) may reduce plasma concentration of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Closely monitor when PIQRAY is used in combination with CYP2C9 substrates where decreases in the plasma concentration of CYP2C9 substrates may reduce activity of these drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary PIQRAY is used in combination with fulvestrant .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for pregnancy information .
Based on animal data and mechanism of action , PIQRAY can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of alpelisib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused adverse developmental outcomes , including embryo - fetal mortality ( post - implantation loss ) , reduced fetal weights , and increased incidences of fetal malformations at maternal exposures ≥ 0 . 8 times the exposure in humans based on AUC at the recommended dose of 300 mg / day ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies in the U . S . general population .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received oral doses of alpelisib up to 30 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
In rats , oral administration of alpelisib resulted in maternal toxicity ( body weight loss , low food consumption ) and no viable fetuses ( post - implantation loss ) at 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg / day based on AUC ) .
At a dose of 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 8 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg / day based on AUC ) , toxicities included reduced fetal weight and increased incidences of skeletal malformations ( bent scapula and thickened or bent long bones ) and fetal variations ( enlarged brain ventricle , decreased bone ossification ) .
In a pilot embryo - fetal development study in rabbits , a dose of 30 mg / kg / day resulted in no viable fetuses ( post - implantation loss ) .
Doses ≥ 15 mg / kg / day resulted in increased embryo - fetal deaths , reduced fetal weights , and malformations , mostly related to the tail and head .
At 15 mg / kg / day in rabbits , the maternal exposure was approximately 5 times the exposure achieved at the recommended human dose of 300 mg / day based on AUC .
8 . 2 Lactation PIQRAY is used in combination with fulvestrant .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for lactation information .
There is no data on the presence of alpelisib in human milk , its effects on milk production , or the breastfed child .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise lactating women to not breastfeed during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential PIQRAY is used in combination with fulvestrant .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for contraception and infertility information .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating PIQRAY .
Contraception Females PIQRAY can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
Males Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use condoms and effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
Infertility Based on findings from animal studies , PIQRAY may impair fertility in males and females of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of PIQRAY in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 284 patients who received PIQRAY in the SOLAR - 1 trial , 117 patients were ≥ 65 years of age and 34 patients were ≥ 75 years of age .
In patients treated with PIQRAY plus fulvestrant , there was a higher incidence of Grade 3 - 4 hyperglycemia in patients ≥ 65 years of age ( 44 % ) compared to patients < 65 years of age ( 32 % ) .
No overall differences in effectiveness of PIQRAY were observed between patients ≥ 65 years of age compared to younger patients .
There are an insufficient number of patients ≥ 75 years of age to assess whether there are differences in safety or effectiveness .
However , in the SOLAR - 1 trial , an increase in the hyperglycemia adverse reactions ( 74 % vs 66 % ) and Grade 3 - 4 ( 56 % vs 36 % ) hyperglycemia were observed in patients ≥ 75 years of age compared to patients < 75 years of age , respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) on alpelisib pharmacokinetics is unknown [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to < 90 mL / min ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is limited experience of overdose with PIQRAY in clinical trials .
In the clinical studies , PIQRAY was administered at doses up to 450 mg once daily .
In cases where accidental overdosage of PIQRAY was reported in the clinical studies , the adverse reactions associated with the overdose were consistent with the known safety profile of PIQRAY and included hyperglycemia , nausea , asthenia , and rash .
Initiate general symptomatic and supportive measures in all cases of overdosage where necessary .
There is no known antidote for PIQRAY .
11 DESCRIPTION PIQRAY ( alpelisib ) is a kinase inhibitor .
The chemical name of alpelisib is ( 2 S ) - N1 - [ 4 - Methyl - 5 - [ 2 - ( 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoro - 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) - 4 - pyridinyl ] - 2 - thiazolyl ] - 1 , 2 - pyrrolidinedicarboxamide .
Alpelisib is a white to almost white powder .
The molecular formula for alpelisib is C19H22F3N5O2S and the relative molecular mass is 441 . 47 g / mol .
The chemical structure of alpelisib is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PIQRAY film - coated tablets are supplied for oral administration with three strengths that contain 50 mg , 150 mg and 200 mg of alpelisib .
The tablets also contain hypromellose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
The film - coating contains hypromellose , iron oxide black , iron oxide red , macrogol / polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 4000 , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Alpelisib is an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) with inhibitory activity predominantly against PI3Kα .
Gain - of - function mutations in the gene encoding the catalytic α - subunit of PI3K ( PIK3CA ) lead to activation of PI3Kα and Akt - signaling , cellular transformation and the generation of tumors in in vitro and in vivo models .
In breast cancer cell lines , alpelisib inhibited the phosphorylation of PI3K downstream targets , including Akt and showed activity in cell lines harboring a PIK3CA mutation .
In vivo , alpelisib inhibited the PI3K / Akt signaling pathway and reduced tumor growth in xenograft models , including models of breast cancer .
PI3K inhibition by alpelisib treatment has been shown to induce an increase in estrogen receptor ( ER ) transcription in breast cancer cells .
The combination of alpelisib and fulvestrant demonstrated increased anti - tumor activity compared to either treatment alone in xenograft models derived from ER - positive , PIK3CA mutated breast cancer cell lines .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology Serial ECGs were collected following a single dose and at steady - state to evaluate the effect of alpelisib on the QTcF interval in patients with advanced cancer .
An analysis of clinical ECG data demonstrates the absence of a large effect ( i . e . , > 20 ms ) on QTcF prolongation at the recommended 300 mg dose with or without fulvestrant .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of alpelisib has been studied in healthy subjects and adult patients with solid tumors .
Steady - state alpelisib maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and AUC increased proportionally over the dose range of 30 mg to 450 mg ( 0 . 1 to 1 . 5 times the approved recommended dosage ) under fed conditions .
The mean accumulation of alpelisib is 1 . 3 to 1 . 5 and steady - state plasma concentrations are reached within 3 days following daily dosage .
In adult patients who received PIQRAY 300 mg once daily in the SOLAR - 1 trial , population approach derived mean steady - state alpelisib [ coefficient of variation ( CV % ) ] for Cmax was 2480 ( 23 % ) ng / mL and AUC0 - 24 hr was 33224 ( 21 % ) ng * h / mL .
Absorption The median time to reach peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) ranged between 2 . 0 to 4 . 0 hours .
Effect of food A high - fat high - calorie meal ( 985 calories with 58 . 1 g of fat ) increased alpelisib AUC by 73 % and Cmax by 84 % , and a low - fat low - calorie meal ( 334 calories with 8 . 7 g of fat ) increased alpelisib AUC by 77 % and Cmax by 145 % following a single dose of PIQRAY .
No clinically significant differences in alpelisib AUC were observed between low - fat low - calorie and high - fat high - calorie meals .
Distribution The mean ( % CV ) apparent volume of distribution of alpelisib at steady - state is predicted to be 114 L ( 46 % ) .
Protein binding of alpelisib is 89 % and is independent of concentration .
Elimination The half - life of alpelisib is predicted to be 8 to 9 hours .
The mean ( % CV ) clearance of alpelisib is predicted to be 9 . 2 L / hr ( 21 % ) under fed conditions .
Metabolism Alpelisib is primarily metabolized by chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis to form its metabolite BZG791 and followed by CYP3A4 mediated hydroxylation .
Excretion Following a single oral dose of 400 mg radiolabeled alpelisib under fasted condition , 81 % of the administered dose was recovered in feces ( 36 % unchanged , 32 % BZG791 ) and 14 % ( 2 % unchanged , 7 . 1 % BZG791 ) in urine .
CYP3A4 - mediated metabolites ( 12 % ) and glucuronides amounted to approximately 15 % of the dose .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of alpelisib were predicted based on age ( 21 to 87 years ) , sex , race / ethnicity ( Japanese or Caucasian ) , body weight ( 37 to 181 kg ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to < 90 mL / min based on the Cockcroft - Gault formula ) , or mild to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A , B , and C ) .
The effect of severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) on the pharmacokinetics of alpelisib is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Acid Reducing Agents : PIQRAY can be coadministered with acid reducing agents , since PIQRAY should be taken with food .
Food exhibited a more pronounced effect on the solubility of alpelisib than the effect of gastric pH value .
Coadministration of the H2 receptor antagonist ranitidine in combination with a single 300 mg oral dose of alpelisib decreased the absorption and overall exposure of alpelisib .
In the presence of a low - fat low - calorie meal , AUC was decreased on average by 21 % and Cmax by 36 % with ranitidine .
Under the fasted state , AUC was decreased on average by 30 % and Cmax by 51 % with ranitidine .
CYP3A4 Substrates : No clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics of everolimus ( a substrate of CYP3A4 and P - gp ) were observed when coadministered with alpelisib .
Effect of CYP3A4 Inducers on Alpelisib : Coadministration of repeat doses of rifampin ( a strong CYP3A4 inducer ) with a single 300 mg dose of alpelisib decreased alpelisib Cmax by 38 % and AUC by 57 % , respectively .
Coadministration of rifampin with repeat doses of 300 mg alpelisib decreased alpelisib Cmax by 59 % and AUC by 74 % , respectively .
Model - Informed Approaches Coadministration of repeat doses of ketoconazole ( a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) with a single 300 mg dose of alpelisib is expected to increase alpelisib AUC by 37 % or less .
Coadministration of repeat doses of efavirenz ( a moderate CYP3A4 inducer ) with a single 300 mg dose of alpelisib is expected to decrease alpelisib AUC by 30 % or less .
In Vitro Studies Effect of Alpelisib on CYP Enzymes : Alpelisib inhibits CYP3A4 in a time - dependent manner and induces CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 .
Effect of Transporter on Alpelisib : Alpelisib is a substrate of BCRP .
Effect of Alpelisib on Transporters : Alpelisib is an inhibitor of P - gp .
Alpelisib has a low potential to inhibit BCRP , MRP2 , BSEP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT1 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 , and MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with alpelisib .
Alpelisib was not mutagenic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , or aneugenic or clastogenic in human cell micronucleus and chromosome aberration tests .
Alpelisib was not genotoxic in an in vivo rat micronucleus test .
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats , female animals were administered alpelisib at doses of 3 , 10 , and 20 mg / kg / day orally .
Animals were dosed for 4 weeks prior to pairing , during the mating period , and up to Gestation Day 6 .
At a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 7 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg based on AUC ) , alpelisib increased pre - and post - implantation losses , leading to reduced numbers of implantation sites and live embryos .
In a repeated - dose toxicity study in rats , adverse effects in female reproductive organs included vaginal atrophy and estrous cycle variations in rats at doses ≥ 6 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 6 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg / day based on AUC ) .
In a male fertility study , alpelisib administered orally at doses of 3 , 10 , and 20 mg / kg / day for up to 99 days ( 10 - weeks prior to pairing , during mating period and continuing during post - pairing ) to male rats , resulted in reduced weights of seminal vesicles and prostate , which correlated with atrophy and / or reduced secretion in prostate and seminal vesicles at ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 8 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 300 mg based on AUC ) .
No adverse effects on male fertility parameters were observed at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES SOLAR - 1 ( NCT02437318 ) was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of PIQRAY plus fulvestrant versus placebo plus fulvestrant in 572 patients with HR - positive , HER2 - negative , advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose disease had progressed or recurred on or after an aromatase inhibitor - based treatment ( with or without CDK4 / 6 combination ) .
Patients were excluded if they had inflammatory breast cancer , diabetes mellitus Type 1 or uncontrolled Type 2 , or pneumonitis .
Randomization was stratified by presence of lung and / or liver metastasis and previous treatment with CDK4 / 6 inhibitor ( s ) .
Overall , 60 % of enrolled patients had tumors with one or more PIK3CA mutations in tissue , 50 % had liver / lung metastases , and 6 % had previously been treated with a CDK4 / 6 inhibitor .
There were 341 patients enrolled by tumor tissue in the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation and 231 enrolled in the cohort without a PIK3CA mutation .
Of the 341 patients in the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation , 336 ( 99 % ) patients had one or more PIK3CA mutations confirmed in tumor tissue using the FDA - approved therascreen ® PIK3CA RGQ PCR Kit .
Out of the 336 patients with PIK3CA mutations confirmed in tumor tissue , 19 patients had no plasma specimen available for testing with the FDA - approved therascreen ® PIK3CA RGQ PCR Kit .
Of the remaining 317 patients with PIK3CA mutations confirmed in tumor tissue , 177 patients ( 56 % ) had PIK3CA mutations identified in plasma specimen , and 140 patients ( 44 % ) did not have PIK3CA mutations identified in plasma specimen .
Patients received either PIQRAY ( 300 mg ) or placebo orally once daily on a continuous basis , plus fulvestrant ( 500 mg ) administered intramuscularly on Cycle 1 , Days 1 and 15 , and then on Day 1 of every 28 - day cycle .
Patients received treatment until radiographic disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks for the first 18 months and every 12 weeks thereafter .
The median age of patients was 63 years ( range , 25 to 92 ) .
Most patients were women ( 99 . 8 % ) and most patients were white ( 66 % ) , followed by Asian ( 22 % ) , Other / Unknown ( 10 % ) , black or African American ( 1 . 4 % ) , and American Indian or Alaskan Native ( 0 . 9 % ) .
Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 ( 68 % ) or 1 ( 32 % ) .
Patient demographics for those with PIK3CA - mutated tumors were generally representative of the broader study population .
The median duration of exposure to PIQRAY plus fulvestrant was 8 . 2 months with 59 % of patients exposed for > 6 months .
The majority of patients ( 98 % ) received prior hormonal therapy as the last treatment ( 48 % metastatic setting , 52 % adjuvant setting ) .
Primary endocrine resistance , defined as relapsed within 24 months on adjuvant endocrine therapy or progression within 6 months on endocrine therapy for advanced disease , was observed in 13 % of patients and secondary endocrine resistance , defined as relapsed after 24 months on adjuvant endocrine therapy , relapsed within 12 months of the end of adjuvant endocrine therapy , or progression after 6 months on endocrine therapy for advanced disease , was observed in 72 % of patients .
The major efficacy outcome was investigator - assessed progression - free survival ( PFS ) in the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( RECIST ) v1 . 1 .
Additional efficacy outcome measures were overall response rate ( ORR ) and overall survival ( OS ) in the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation .
The results from the investigator - assessed PFS and ORR for the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation in tumor tissue are presented in Table 8 , and Figure 1 .
Investigator - assessed PFS results for the cohort with a PIK3CA mutation were supported by consistent results from a blinded independent review committee ( BIRC ) assessment .
Similar results were seen in patients with tissue or plasma PIK3CA mutations .
At the pre - specified final OS analysis , there was no significant difference in OS between the PIQRAY plus fulvestrant arm and the placebo plus fulvestrant arm ( hazard ratio [ HR ] = 0 . 86 , 95 % CI : 0 . 64 , 1 . 15 ) .
No benefit was observed in patients whose tumors did not have a PIK3CA tissue mutation ( PFS : HR = 0 . 85 , 95 % CI : 0 . 58 , 1 . 25 ; OS : HR = 0 . 92 , 95 % CI : 0 . 65 , 1 . 29 ) .
Table 8 : Efficacy Results in SOLAR - 1 ( Per Investigator Assessment of Patients with a PIK3CA Tumor Mutation ) Abbreviation : CI , confidence interval .
1 p - value obtained from the two sided stratified log - rank test , stratified by prior CDK4 / 6 inhibitor usage and presence of lung / liver metastases .
P - value was compared to prespecified Haybittle - Peto efficacy boundary ( two - sided p ≤ 0 . 0398 ) .
2 ORR = percentage of patients with confirmed Complete Response or Partial Response with measurable disease at baseline .
PIQRAY plus fulvestrant Placebo plus fulvestrant Progression - free Survival N = 169 N = 172 Number of PFS events – n ( % ) 103 ( 61 ) 129 ( 75 ) Median PFS months ( 95 % CI ) 11 . 0 ( 7 . 5 , 14 . 5 ) 5 . 7 ( 3 . 7 , 7 . 4 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 65 ( 0 . 50 , 0 . 85 ) p - value1 0 . 0013 Overall Response Rate N = 126 N = 136 ORR2 ( 95 % CI ) 35 . 7 ( 27 . 4 , 44 . 7 ) 16 . 2 ( 10 . 4 , 23 . 5 ) Figure 1 : Progression Free Survival in SOLAR - 1 ( Per Investigator Assessment of Patients with a PIK3CA Tumor Mutation ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PIQRAY ( alpelisib ) 50 mg , 150 mg , and 200 mg film - coated tablets [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
Daily dose Each carton contains Each blister pack contains NDC 300 mg daily dose 2 blister packs ( 56 tablets total ) A 14 - day supply of 28 tablets ( 28 tablets , 150 mg alpelisib per tablet ) NDC 0078 - 0708 - 02 250 mg daily dose 2 blister packs ( 56 tablets total ) A 14 - day supply of 28 tablets ( 14 tablets , 200 mg alpelisib per tablet and 14 tablets , 50 mg alpelisib per tablet ) NDC 0078 - 0715 - 02 200 mg daily dose 1 blister pack ( 28 tablets total ) A 28 - day supply of 28 tablets ( 28 tablets , 200 mg alpelisib per tablet ) NDC 0078 - 0701 - 84 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Severe Hypersensitivity Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCARs ) .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of SCARs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia Advise patients that PIQRAY may cause hyperglycemia and the need to monitor fasting blood glucose periodically during therapy .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pneumonitis Inform patients that PIQRAY may cause pneumonitis and to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they experience respiratory problems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Diarrhea or Colitis Advise patients that PIQRAY may cause diarrhea , which may be severe , and to start antidiarrheal treatment , increase oral fluids , and notify their healthcare provider if diarrhea occurs while taking PIQRAY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Advise patients that PIQRAY may cause colitis and to notify their healthcare provider immediately of any symptoms of colitis , such as abdominal pain and mucus or blood in stool , while taking PIQRAY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Inform pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use condoms and effective contraception during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for pregnancy and contraception information .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for lactation information .
Infertility Advise males and females of reproductive potential that PIQRAY may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Refer to the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for infertility information .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to avoid the use of strong CYP3A4 inducers in patients treated with PIQRAY .
Advise patients to avoid the use of BCRP inhibitors while taking PIQRAY If unable to use alternative drugs , closely monitor for increased adverse reactions .
Advise patients that close monitoring may be required when PIQRAY is coadministered with CYP2C9 substrates where decreases in the plasma concentration of CYP2C9 substrates may reduce activity of these drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
Dosing • Instruct patients to take PIQRAY at approximately the same time each day and to swallow the tablet ( s ) whole ( tablets should not be chewed , crushed , or split prior to swallowing ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients to take PIQRAY with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Instruct patients that if a dose of PIQRAY is missed , it can be taken with food within 9 hours after the time it is usually taken .
After more than 9 hours , skip the dose for that day .
The next day , take PIQRAY at the usual time .
Instruct patients not to take 2 doses to make up for a missed dose .
• Instruct patients that if they vomit after taking the dose of PIQRAY , they should not take an additional dose on that day , and to resume the usual dosing schedule the next day at the usual time [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2022 - 51 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : May 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION PIQRAY ® ( pik ' raye ) ( alpelisib ) tablets What is PIQRAY ?
PIQRAY is a prescription medicine used in combination with the medicine fulvestrant to treat women who have gone through menopause and men : • who have hormone receptor ( HR ) - positive , human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) - negative advanced breast cancer or breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body ( metastatic ) , with an abnormal phosphatidylinositol - 3 - kinase catalytic subunit alpha ( PIK3CA ) gene , and • whose disease has progressed on or after endocrine therapy .
Your healthcare provider will test your cancer for an abnormal “ PIK3CA ” gene to make sure that PIQRAY is right for you .
It is not known if PIQRAY is safe and effective in children .
Do not take PIQRAY if you have had a severe allergic reaction to PIQRAY or are allergic to any of the ingredients in PIQRAY .
• See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in PIQRAY .
• See “ What are the possible side effects of PIQRAY ? ”
for signs and symptoms of severe allergic reactions .
Before you take PIQRAY , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a history of diabetes • have a history of skin rash , redness of skin , blistering of the lips , eyes or mouth , or skin peeling • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
PIQRAY can harm your unborn baby .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider will check to see if you are pregnant before you start treatment with PIQRAY .
• You should use effective birth control during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that may be right for you during this time .
• If you become pregnant or think you are pregnant , tell your healthcare provider right away .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant should use condoms and effective birth control during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
If your female partner becomes pregnant , tell your healthcare provider right away .
You should also read the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for important pregnancy , contraception , and infertility information .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PIQRAY passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with PIQRAY and for 1 week after the last dose .
You should also read the Full Prescribing Information of fulvestrant for important lactation information .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
PIQRAY and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take PIQRAY ?
• Take PIQRAY exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Do not change your dose or stop taking PIQRAY unless your healthcare provider tells you .
• Take PIQRAY 1 time each day , at about the same time each day .
• Take PIQRAY with food .
• Swallow PIQRAY tablets whole .
Do not chew , crush or split the tablets .
• Do not take any PIQRAY tablets that are broken , cracked , or that look damaged .
• If you miss a dose of PIQRAY , you may still take it with food up to 9 hours after the time you usually take it .
If it has been more than 9 hours after you usually take your dose , skip the dose for that day .
The next day , take the dose at your usual time .
Do not take 2 doses to make up for a missed dose .
• If you vomit after taking a dose of PIQRAY , do not take another dose on that day .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
• If you take too much PIQRAY , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of PIQRAY ?
PIQRAY may cause serious side effects , including : • Severe allergic reactions .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have trouble breathing , swelling of the face or throat , flushing , rash , fever , or fast heart rate during treatment with PIQRAY .
• Severe skin reactions .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you get severe rash or rash that keeps getting worse , reddened skin , flu - like symptoms , blistering of the lips , eyes or mouth , blisters on the skin or skin peeling , with or without fever .
• High blood sugar levels ( hyperglycemia ) .
Hyperglycemia is common with PIQRAY and may be severe .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood sugar levels before you start and during treatment with PIQRAY .
Your healthcare provider may monitor your blood sugar levels more often if you have a history of Type 2 diabetes .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop symptoms of hyperglycemia , including : ◦ excessive thirst ◦ dry mouth ◦ more frequent urination than usual or a higher amount of urine than normal ◦ increased appetite with weight loss ◦ confusion ◦ nausea ◦ vomiting ◦ fruity odor on breath ◦ difficulty breathing ◦ dry or flushed skin • Lung problems ( pneumonitis ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop new or worsening symptoms of lung problems , including : ◦ shortness of breath or trouble breathing ◦ cough ◦ chest pain • Diarrhea or colitis ( inflammation of your intestines ) .
Diarrhea is common with PIQRAY and may be severe .
Severe diarrhea can lead to the loss of too much body water ( dehydration ) and kidney injury .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop diarrhea , stomach - area ( abdominal ) pain , or see mucus or blood in your stool during treatment with PIQRAY .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to drink more fluids or take medicines to treat diarrhea or colitis .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to decrease your dose , temporarily stop your treatment , or completely stop your treatment with PIQRAY if you get certain serious side effects .
The most common side effects of PIQRAY when used with fulvestrant include : • rash • nausea • tiredness and weakness • decreased appetite • mouth sores • vomiting • weight loss • hair loss • changes in certain blood tests PIQRAY may affect fertility in males and in females who are able to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
These are not all of the possible side effects of PIQRAY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PIQRAY ?
Store PIQRAY at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep PIQRAY and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of PIQRAY .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use PIQRAY for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PIQRAY to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about PIQRAY that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in PIQRAY ?
Active ingredient : alpelisib Inactive ingredients : hypromellose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
The film - coating contains hypromellose , iron oxide black , iron oxide red , macrogol / polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 4000 , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation , East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis For more information , go to www . PIQRAY . com or call 1 - 833 - 4 - PIQRAY ( 1 - 833 - 474 - 7729 ) .
T2022 - 34 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0708 - 02 PIQRAY ® ( alpelisib ) tablets 300 mg daily dose Take two 150 mg tablets once daily Rx only Usual Dosage : Take two 150 mg tablets once daily with food .
Swallow tablets whole .
DO NOT chew , crush , or split tablets .
See prescribing information for complete dosage information .
28 - Day Supply Contains : Two 14 - day blister packs each containing 28 tablets NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0715 - 02 PIQRAY ® ( alpelisib ) tablets 250 mg daily dose Take one 200 mg tablet and one 50 mg tablet once daily Rx only Usual Dosage : Take one 200 mg tablet and one 50 mg tablet once daily with food .
Swallow tablets whole .
DO NOT chew , crush , or split tablets .
See prescribing information for complete dosage information .
28 - Day Supply Contains : Two 14 - day blister packs each containing 28 tablets : 200 mg 14 tablets per pack 50 mg 14 tablets per pack NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0701 - 84 PIQRAY ® ( alpelisib ) tablets 200 mg daily dose Take one 200 mg tablet once daily Rx only Usual Dosage : Take one 200 mg tablet once daily with food .
Swallow tablets whole .
DO NOT chew , crush , or split tablets .
See prescribing information for complete dosage information .
28 - Day Supply Contains : One blister pack containing 28 tablets NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
