Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water • with other topical acne medications , at the same time or immediately following use of this product , increased dryness of the skin may occur .
If this occurs , only one acne medication should be used unless directed by your doctor .
• limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • wet face • dispense product into hands and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area • cover entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly with warm water one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly closed • store in a cool , dry place Inactive ingredients water , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , hydrated silica , glycerin , stearyl alcohol , cetyl betaine , distearyldimonium chloride , sodium lauryl sulfate , cetyl alcohol , alcohol , steareth - 21 , sodium chloride , behenyl alcohol , synthetic wax , steareth - 2 , fragrance , Lavandula stoechas extract , Helichrysum italicum extract , Cistus monspeliensis extract , xanthan gum , dimethyl palmitamine , lauryl alcohol , mica , isopropyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , BHT , magnesium nitrate , methylchloroisothiazolinone , magnesium chloride , methylisothiazolinone , sodium sulfate , ferric ferrocyanide , titanium dioxide , FD & C blue no . 1 Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mL Tube Label NEW Clearasil ® ULTRA ™ Blackhead Scrub Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication Clear stubborn blackheads & helps prevent new ones 5 . 0 FL .
OZ .
( 150 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
