Drug Facts Active ingredients Allantoin 0 . 5 % Lidocaine HCl 0 . 5 % Purposes Lip Protectant External Analgesic Uses • for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with cold sores and fever blisters • relieves dryness and softens cold sores and fever blisters Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : Do not use if you have an allergy to Lidocaine or other " caine " ingredients .
Do not use on • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash hands before and after applying gel • gently clean the affected area before applying • adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Alcohol , Carbomer , Sarracenia Leucophylla Flower / Leaf / Seed / Stalk Extract , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Hydroxide , Caprylyl Glycol , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract , Melissa Officinalis Leaf Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Hexylene Glycol , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Hypericum Perforatum Flower / Leaf Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Acanthopanax Senticosus ( Eleuthero ) Root Extract Other information • recap after each use • store at room temperature • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call Toll - Free 1 - 844 - My - Aubio ( 1 - 844 - 692 - 8246 ) Monday - Friday 9 am - 5 pm ET relieves dryness soothes EXTERNAL ANALGESIC / LIP PROTECTANT Fast and effective temporary relief of pain and itching Moisturizing formula with Aloe Aubio TM Cold Sore Treatment Gel provides fast and effective temporary relief of cold sore pain and itching .
Patent Pending Distributed by Aubio Life Sciences , LLC Wixom , MI 48393 Aubio Life SciencesTM www . aubio . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
