Active ingredient Purpose Oxymetazoline Hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Nasal decongestant Uses • for the temporary relief of nasal congestion due to the common cold , hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland When using this product Do not use this product if you have heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product • Do not exceed recommended dosage .
• This product may cause temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge .
• The use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
• Do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
• Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a PoisonControl Center right away .
Directions Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip and prime pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
• adults and children 6 to under12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 1 2 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses within any 24 - hour period • children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Inactive ingredients Benzalkonium Chloride , Benzyl Alcohol , Camphor , Edetate Disodium , Eucalyptol , Menthol , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Polyethylene Glycol , Povidone , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose , Sodium Phosphate Dibasic , Sodium Phosphate Monobasic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
