MULTIVITAMIN WITH FLUORIDE vitamin A , ascorbic acid , sodium ascorbate , cholecalciferol , alpha - tocopherol acetate , dl - , thiamine mononitrate , riboflavin , niacinamide , pyridoxine hydrochloride , folic acid and cyanocobalamin tablet , chewable Each Fluoride Chewable Tablet Contains : Supplement Facts Dosage Size 1 Chewable Tablet Amount per tablet 1 . 0 mg % DV Adults and Children 4 years or More Vitamin A 750 ug 50 % Vitamin C 60 mg 100 % VItamin D 10 ug 100 % Vitamin E 13 mg 50 % Thiamine 1 . 05 mg 70 % Riboflavin 1 . 2 mg 71 % Niacin 13 . 5 mg 68 % Vitamin B 6 1 . 05 mg 53 % Folate 300 ug 75 % Vitamin B 12 4 . 5 ug 75 % Fluoride 1 . 0 mg * * daily value ( DV ) not established Multivitamin with Fluoride 1 mg active ingredient for caries prophylaxis : Fluoride as sodium fluoride Multivitamin with 1 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets provide sodium fluoride and ten essential vitamins in a chewable tablet .
Other ingredients : ascorbic acid , cholecalciferol , compressible sugar , croscarmellose sodium , dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate , D and C Red # 27 aluminum lake , FD and C Blue # 1 aluminum lake , folic acid , grape flavor , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , niacinamide , pyridoxine , riboflavin , sodium ascorbate , stearic acid , thiamine , vitamin A , vitamin B 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY It is well established that fluoridation of the water supply ( 1 ppm fluoride ) during the period of tooth development leads to a significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries .
Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets provide sodium fluoride and ten essential vitamins in a chewable tablet .
Because the tablets are chewable , they provide a topical as well as systemic source of fluoride .
Hydroxyapatite is the principal crystal for all calcified tissue in the human body .
The fluoride ion reacts with the hydroxyapatite in the tooth as it is formed to produce the more caries - resistant crystal , fluorapatite .
The reaction may be expressed by the equation : Ca 10 ( PO 4 ) 6 ( OH ) 2 + 2 F - ------- Ca 10 ( PO 4 ) 6 F 2 + 2 OH - ( Hydroxyapatite ) ( Fluorapatite ) Three stages of fluoride deposition in tooth enamel can be distinguished : 1 .
Small amounts ( reflecting the low levels of fluoride in tissue fluids ) are incorporated into the enamel crystals while they are being formed .
2 .
After enamel has been laid down , fluoride deposition continues in the surface enamel .
Diffusion of fluoride from the surface inward is apparently restricted .
3 .
After eruption , the surface enamel acquires fluoride from the water , food , supplementary fluoride and smaller amounts from saliva .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins .
Supplementation of the diet with fluoride for caries prophylaxis .
Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets provide 1 . 0 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 6 - 16 years of age in areas where the water fluoride level is less than 0 . 3 ppm .
Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets supply significant amounts of Vitamins A , C , D , E , thiamine , riboflavin , niacin , vitamin B 6 , vitamin B 12 , and folate to supplement the diet , and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop .
Thus , in a single easy - to - use preparation , children obtain ten essential vitamins and the important mineral , fluoride .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16 , in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride , receive daily fluoride supplements .
Children using Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations .
The regular brushing of teeth and attention to good oral hygiene practices are also essential .
Multivitamin with Fluoride Chewable Tablets is a prescription product for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes of caries prophylaxis and provides supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins .
WARNING Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Caution : Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration .
Should be chewed .
This product , as all chewable tablets , is not recommended for children under age 4 due to risk of choking .
PRECAUTION The suggested dose of Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets should not be exceeded , since dental fluorosis may result from continued ingestion of large amounts of fluoride .
Before prescribing Multivitamin with 1 . 0 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets : 1 .
Determine the fluoride content of the drinking water from all major sources .
2 .
Make sure the child is not receiving significant amounts of fluoride from other sources such as medications and swallowed toothpaste .
3 .
Periodically check to make sure that the child does not develop significant dental fluorosis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily , to be dissolved in the mouth or chewed before swallowing .
Do not give a chewable tablet to a child younger than 4 years old .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4475 NDC : 50090 - 4475 - 0 100 TABLET , CHEWABLE in a BOTTLE , PLASTIC STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container with a child - resistant closure as defined in the USP / NF .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
Sodium Fluoride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
