Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Benzocaine 20 . 0 % ( w / w ) Oral anesthetic / analgesic Zinc Chloride 0 . 1 % ( w / w ) Oral astringent Uses • for the temporary relief of pain due to toothaches , canker sores , minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances , or minor injury of the mouth or gums Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ; if irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash or fever develops , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
• do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • twist base clockwise to dispense .
It may take up to 10 full turns to dispense the initial dose , but subsequent uses should require less than 1 turn .
• to clean brush tip , rinse with cold water • dry affected area and apply medication by gently brushing the affected area .
• use up to 4 times daily , or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not purchase if package has been opened • replace cap after use to prevent drying • avoid contact with the eyes • this is a personal care item , and should be used by one individual only • with zinc chloride , some color may be evident ; this is normal Inactive ingredients flavors , glycerin , PEG - 8 , PEG - 75 , phenoxyethanol , silica , sucralose PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 0 g Applicator Blister Pack Blistex ® MAXIMUM STRENGTH KANKA ® Soft Brush ® Tooth & Gum Pain Gel ORAL ANESTHETIC / ASTRINGENT Maximum Pain Relief Dual Medications Gentle Application Easy Reach Design Ultra Soft Tip 50 + Uses Toothaches Brace / Denture Irritation Gum Discomfort Canker Sores Net Wt .
0 . 07 oz .
( 2 . 0 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
