Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , cyclopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium Herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , fragrance , tocohperyl acetate , disodium EDTA , steareth - 2 , oleth - 3 phosphate , ascorbic acid , panthenol Complete Oil of Beauty Sunscreen Moisture Lotion 100 % Aminobenzoic Acid ( PABA ) - Free Dermatologist Tested Light , Non - Greasy Formula Non - Comedogenic ( Wo n't Clog Pores ) Broad - spectrum UVA and UVB Protection with SPF 15 to help prevent premature skin damage .
ALL DAY MOISTURE - formulated with antioxidant Vitamin E plus C and nourishing beauty moisture that absorbs quickly into sking and lasts all day to help your skin stay soft , smoothe and beautiful .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete DISTRIBUTED BY : Geiss , Destin , & Dunn , Inc .
Peachtree City , GA 30269 www .
valuelabels . com 1 - 866 - 696 - 0957 principal display panel GoodSense Complete Oil of Beauty Sunscreen Moisture Lotion SPF 15 Broad - spectrum UVA and UVB protection with SPF 15 to help precent premature skin damage Compare to active ingredients of Olay Complete 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
