• Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 12 / 2021 WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS ( NSF ) Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for NSF among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs in these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrasted MRI or other modalities .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle and internal organs .
• • The risk for NSF appears highest among patients with : • oChronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • oAcute kidney injury .
• • Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( for example , age > 60 years , hypertension or diabetes ) , estimate the glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) through laboratory testing .
For patients at highest risk for NSF , do not exceed the recommended EOVIST dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug from the body prior to any re - administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS ( NSF ) See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for NSF among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs in these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrasted MRI or other modalities .
• • The risk for NSF appears highest among patients with : • oChronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • oAcute kidney injury .
• • Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( for example , age > 60 years , hypertension or diabetes ) , estimate the glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) through laboratory testing ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EOVIST is indicated for intravenous use in magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) of the liver to detect and characterize lesions in patients with known or suspected focal liver disease .
EOVIST is a gadolinium - based contrast agent indicated for use in magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) of the liver to detect and characterize lesions in patients with known or suspected focal liver disease ( 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose of EOVIST is 0 . 1 mL / kg body weight ( 0 . 025 mmol / kg body weight ) .
2 . 2 Drug Handling and Administration • • Use sterile technique when preparing and administering EOVIST • • Visually inspect EOVIST , supplied in a single - dose container ( vial ) , for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use the solution if it is discolored or if particulate matter is present • • Use EOVIST immediately after obtaining appropriate dose from vial .
The rubber stopper should never be pierced more than once .
Discard any unused portion of an EOVIST vial • • Administer EOVIST undiluted as an intravenous injection at a recommended rate of 1 mL to 2 mL per second .
• • Do not mix EOVIST with other medications and do not administer EOVIST in the same intravenous line simultaneously with other medications • • Flush the intravenous cannula with a normal saline solution after EOVIST injection • • Imaging can commence immediately following EOVIST administration 2 . 3 Imaging • • Liver lesions are detected and characterized with pre - contrast MRI and EOVIST MRI obtained during dynamic and hepatocyte imaging phases .
Perform a pre - contrast MRI , inject EOVIST and begin dynamic imaging approximately 15 – 25 seconds after completion of the injection .
Dynamic imaging consists of the arterial , the porto - venous ( approximately 60 seconds post - injection ) , and the blood equilibrium ( approximately 120 seconds ) phases .
• • Begin the hepatocyte imaging phase approximately 20 minutes post - injection .
Hepatocyte phase imaging may be performed up to 120 minutes post - injection .
• • Elevated intrinsic levels of bilirubin ( > 3 mg / dL ) or ferritin can reduce the hepatic contrast effect of EOVIST .
Perform MR imaging no later than 60 minutes following EOVIST administration to patients with these laboratory abnormalities , including patients who have elevated ferritin levels due to hemodialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• • Lesions with no or minimal hepatocyte function ( cysts , metastases , and the majority of hepatocellular carcinomas ) generally will not accumulate EOVIST .
Well - differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma may contain functioning hepatocytes and can show some enhancement in the hepatocyte imaging phase .
Additional clinical information is therefore needed to support a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS EOVIST is a sterile , clear , and colorless to pale yellow solution for injection containing 181 . 43 mg gadoxetate disodium per mL ( equivalent to 0 . 25 mmol gadoxetate disodium per mL ) supplied in single - dose containers ( vials ) .
Injection : 181 . 43 mg / mL in single - dose containers ( vials ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EOVIST is contraindicated in patients with history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to EOVIST [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
History of severe hypersensitivity reaction to EOVIST ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis has occurred in patients with impaired elimination of GBCAs .
Higher than recommended dosing or repeated dosing appears to increase the risk ( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity : anaphylactoid / hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular , respiratory and cutaneous manifestations , ranging from mild to severe reactions including shock can occur .
Monitor patients closely for need of emergency cardiorespiratory support ( 5 . 2 ) • • Gadolinium is retained for months or years in brain , bone , and other organs .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis ( NSF ) Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ( NSF ) among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs among these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrast enhanced MRI or other modalities .
The GBCA - associated NSF risk appears highest for patients with chronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) as well as patients with acute kidney injury .
The risk appears lower for patients with chronic , moderate kidney disease ( GFR 30 to 59 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and little , if any , for patients with chronic , mild kidney disease ( GFR 60 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle and internal organs .
Report any diagnosis of NSF following EOVIST administration to Bayer HealthCare ( 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch ) .
Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
Features of acute kidney injury consist of rapid ( over hours to days ) and usually reversible decrease in kidney function , commonly in the setting of surgery , severe infection , injury or drug - induced kidney toxicity .
Serum creatinine levels and estimated GFR may not reliably assess renal function in the setting of acute kidney injury .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( for example , age > 60 years , diabetes mellitus or chronic hypertension ) , estimate the GFR through laboratory testing .
Among the factors that may increase the risk for NSF are repeated or higher than recommended doses of a GBCA and degree of renal impairment at the time of exposure .
Record the specific GBCA and the dose administrated to a patient .
For patients at highest risk for NSF , do not exceed the recommended EOVIST dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug prior to any re - administration .
For patients receiving hemodialysis , physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of a GBCA in order to enhance the contrast agent ’ s elimination [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The usefulness of hemodialysis in the prevention of NSF is unknown .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic and other hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular , respiratory and cutaneous manifestations , ranging from mild to severe , including shock have uncommonly occurred following EOVIST administration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• • Before EOVIST administration , assess all patients for any history of a reaction to contrast media , bronchial asthma and allergic disorders .
These patients may have an increased risk for a hypersensitivity reaction to EOVIST .
• • Administer EOVIST only in situations where trained personnel and therapies are promptly available for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions , including personnel trained in resuscitation .
Most hypersensitivity reactions to EOVIST have occurred within half an hour after administration .
Delayed reactions can occur up to several days after EOVIST administration .
Observe patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during and following EOVIST administration .
5 . 3 Gadolinium Retention Gadolinium is retained for months or years in several organs .
The highest concentrations ( nanomoles per gram of tissue ) have been identified in the bone , followed by other organs ( for example , brain , skin , kidney , liver , and spleen ) .
The duration of retention also varies by tissue and is longest in bone .
Linear GBCAs cause more retention than macrocyclic GBCAs .
At equivalent doses , gadolinium retention varies among the linear agents with Omniscan ( gadodiamide ) and Optimark ( gadoversetamide ) causing greater retention than other linear agents [ Eovist ( gadoxetate disodium ) , Magnevist ( gadopentetate dimeglumine ) , MultiHance ( gadobenate dimeglumine ) ] .
Retention is lowest and similar among the macrocyclic GBCAs [ Dotarem ( gadoterate meglumine ) , Gadavist ( gadobutrol ) , ProHance ( gadoteridol ) ] .
Consequences of gadolinium retention in the brain have not been established .
Pathologic and clinical consequences of GBCA administration and retention in skin and other organs have been established in patients with impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
There are rare reports of pathologic skin changes in patients with normal renal function .
Adverse events involving multiple organ systems have been reported in patients with normal renal function without an established causal link to gadolinium retention [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
While clinical consequences of gadolinium retention have not been established in patients with normal renal function , certain patients might be at higher risk .
These include patients requiring multiple lifetime doses , pregnant and pediatric patients , and patients with inflammatory conditions .
Consider the retention characteristics of the agent when choosing a GBCA for these patients .
Minimize repetitive GBCA imaging studies particularly closely spaced studies , when possible .
5 . 4 Acute Kidney Injury In patients with chronic renal impairment , acute kidney injury sometimes requiring dialysis has been observed with the use of some GBCAs .
The risk of acute kidney injury might be lower with EOVIST due to its dual excretory pathways .
Do not exceed the recommended dose ; the risk of acute kidney injury may increase with higher than recommended doses .
5 . 5 Extravasation and Injection Site Reactions Ensure catheter and venous patency before the injection of EOVIST .
Extravasation into tissues during EOVIST administration may result in local tissue reactions .
Strictly avoid intramuscular administration of EOVIST because it may cause myocyte necrosis and inflammation [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Interference with Laboratory Tests Serum iron determination using complexometric methods ( for example , ferrocene complexation method ) may result in falsely high or low values for up to 24 hours after the examination with EOVIST because of the caloxetate trisodium excipients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Interference with Visualization of Liver Lesions Severe renal or hepatic failure may impair EOVIST imaging performance .
In patients with end - stage renal failure , hepatic contrast was markedly reduced and was attributed to elevated serum ferritin levels .
In patients with abnormally high ( > 3 mg / dL ) serum bilirubin , reduced hepatic contrast was observed .
If EOVIST is used in these patients , complete MRI no later than 60 minutes after EOVIST administration and use a paired non - contrast and contrast MRI set for diagnosis .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ( NSF ) [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 0 . 5 % ) are nausea , headache , feeling hot , dizziness , and back pain ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 84 - BAYER ( 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The adverse reactions described in this section reflect EOVIST exposure in 1 , 989 subjects with the majority ( 1 , 581 subjects ) receiving the recommended dose .
Overall , 59 % of the subjects were men and the ethnic distribution was 64 % Caucasian , 22 % Asian , 3 % Hispanic , 2 % Black , and 0 . 5 % of subjects consisted of other ethnic groups .
The average age was 57 years ( age range from 19 to 84 years ) .
Overall , 4 % of subjects reported one or more adverse reactions following EOVIST administration .
The most frequent ( ≥ 0 . 5 % ) adverse reactions associated with the use of EOVIST were nausea , headache , feeling hot , dizziness , and back pain .
Adverse reactions were predominantly of mild to moderate severity .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 0 . 1 % of subjects treated with EOVIST .
Table 1 Adverse ReactionsReaction Rate ( % ) n = 1581 Nausea 1 . 1 Headache 1 . 1 Feeling hot 0 . 8 Dizziness 0 . 6 Back pain 0 . 6 Vomiting 0 . 4 Blood pressure increased 0 . 4 Injection site reactions ( pain , burning , coldness , extravasation , irritation ) 0 . 4 Dysgeusia 0 . 4 Paresthesia 0 . 3 Flushing 0 . 3 Parosmia 0 . 3 Pruritus ( generalized , eye ) 0 . 3 Rash 0 . 3 Respiratory disorders ( dyspnea , respiratory distress ) 0 . 2 Fatigue 0 . 2 Chest pain 0 . 1 Vertigo 0 . 1 Dry mouth 0 . 1 Chills 0 . 1 Feeling abnormal 0 . 1 Adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of < 0 . 1 % in subjects who received EOVIST include : tremor , akathisia , bundle branch block , palpitation , oral discomfort , salivary hypersecretion , maculopapular rash , hyperhidrosis , discomfort , and malaise .
Elevation of serum iron values and serum bilirubin laboratory values were reported in less than 1 % of patients after administration of EOVIST .
The values did not exceed more than 3 times the baseline values and returned to baseline within 1 to 4 days .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during the postmarketing use of EOVIST .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Hypersensitivity reactions ( anaphylactic shock , hypotension , pharyngolaryngeal edema , urticaria , face edema , rhinitis , conjunctivitis , abdominal pain , hypoesthesia , sneezing , cough and pallor ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Tachycardia • • Restlessness • • General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Adverse events with variable onset and duration have been reported after GBCA administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
These include fatigue , asthenia , pain syndromes , and heterogeneous clusters of symptoms in the neurological , cutaneous , and musculoskeletal systems .
• • Skin : Gadolinium associated plaques 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Use only if imaging is essential during pregnancy and cannot be delayed .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary GBCAs have been shown to cross the human placenta and result in fetal exposure and gadolinium retention .
The human data on the association between GBCAs and adverse fetal outcomes are limited and inconclusive ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , no teratogenicity was observed with repeated daily intravenous administration of gadoxetate disodium to rats during organogenesis at doses up to 32 times the recommended single human dose ; however , an increase in preimplantation loss was noted at doses 3 . 2 times the single human dose .
Post implantation loss was observed with repeated daily intravenous administration of gadoxetate disodium to rabbits on gestation days 6 through 18 at doses 26 times the recommended single human dose ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential risks of gadolinium to the fetus , use EOVIST only if imaging is essential during pregnancy and cannot be delayed .
The background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Human Data Contrast enhancement is visualized in the placenta and fetal tissues after maternal GBCA administration .
Cohort studies and case reports on exposure to GBCAs during pregnancy have not reported a clear association between GBCAs and adverse effects in the exposed neonates .
However , a retrospective cohort study , comparing pregnant women who had a GBCA MRI to pregnant women who did not have an MRI , reported a higher occurrence of stillbirths and neonatal deaths in the group receiving GBCA MRI .
Limitations of this study include a lack of comparison with non - contrast MRI and lack of information about the maternal indication for MRI .
Overall , these data preclude a reliable evaluation of the potential risk of adverse fetal outcomes with the use of GBCAs in pregnancy .
Animal Data Gadolinium Retention GBCAs administered to pregnant non - human primates ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg on gestational days 85 and 135 ) result in measurable gadolinium concentration in the offspring in bone , brain , skin , kidney , and spleen for at least 7 months .
GBCAs administered to pregnant mice ( 2 mmol / kg daily on gestational days 16 through 19 ) result in measurable gadolinium concentrations in the pups in bone , brain , kidney , liver , blood , muscle , and spleen at one month postnatal age .
Reproductive Toxicology Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies were done in rats and rabbits .
Gadoxetate disodium was not teratogenic when given intravenously during organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses up to 32 times the recommended single human dose ( mmol / m2 basis ) .
However , an increase in preimplantation loss was noted at 3 . 2 times the human dose ( mmol / m2 basis ) .
Compared to untreated controls , rates of postimplantation loss and absorption increased and litter size decreased when pregnant rabbits received gadoxetate disodium at doses 26 times the recommended human single dose ( mmol / m2 basis ) .
This occurred without evidence of maternal toxicity .
Because pregnant animals received repeated daily doses of gadoxetate disodium , their overall exposure was significantly higher than that achieved with the standard single dose administered to humans .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of gadoxetate disodium in human milk , the effects of the drug in a breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
However , published lactation data on other GBCAs report that 0 . 01 to 0 . 04 % of the maternal gadolinium dose is present in breast milk and there is limited GBCA gastrointestinal absorption in the breastfed infant .
In rat lactation studies with [ 153 Gd ] gadoxetate disodium , less than 0 . 5 % of the total administered radioactivity was transferred to the nursing pup .
Clinical Considerations A lactating woman may consider interrupting breastfeeding and pumping and discarding breast milk for up to 10 hours after EOVIST administration in order to minimize exposure to a breastfed infant .
Data Animal Data In lactating rats given 0 . 1 mmol / kg [ 153 Gd ] gadoxetate disodium , less than 0 . 5 % of the total administered radioactivity was transferred to the neonates via maternal milk , mostly within 2 hours .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Adequate and well - controlled studies of EOVIST in pediatric patients have not been conducted .
An observational study with EOVIST was performed in 52 patients ( aged > 2 months and < 18 years ) referred for evaluation of suspected or known focal liver lesions .
EOVIST improved border delineation and increased contrast of the primary lesion in the majority of patients when compared to non - contrast images .
No safety issues were identified .
No dose adjustment according to age is necessary in pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of EOVIST have not been established in premature infants .
NSF Risk No case of NSF associated with EOVIST or any other GBCA has been identified in pediatric patients ages 6 years and younger .
Juvenile Animal Data Single and repeat - dose toxicity studies in neonatal and juvenile rats did not reveal findings suggestive of a specific risk for use in pediatric patients including term neonates and infants .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of EOVIST , 674 ( 34 % ) patients were 65 years of age and over , while 20 ( 1 % ) were 80 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , use of EOVIST in an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In a clinical pharmacology study , slight to moderate differences in pharmacokinetic parameters of gadoxetate disodium ( increased AUC and terminal half - life , decreased total clearance ) were found in a group of geriatric volunteers in comparison to non - geriatric volunteers .
No clinically relevant differences in liver contrast enhancement were found .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In a clinical pharmacology study in a group of patients with moderate renal impairment , a moderate increase in AUC and terminal half - life was observed in comparison to healthy volunteers with normal renal function .
Hepatic contrast did not differ among the groups .
End - stage renal failure may impair EOVIST imaging performance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
In a study of patients with end - stage renal failure , the terminal half - life was prolonged about 12 - fold and the AUC was increased about 6 - fold .
Hepatic contrast was markedly reduced in these patients , which was attributed to significantly elevated serum ferritin levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Approximately 30 % of the injected dose was removed by dialysis in a single 3 - hour dialysis session , which started one hour after an EOVIST dose .
EOVIST was almost completely eliminated via dialysis and biliary excretion within the observation period of 6 days , predominantly within the first 3 days .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment In a clinical pharmacology study in groups of patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , a slight to moderate increase in plasma AUC , half - life and urinary excretion , as well as decrease in hepatobiliary excretion was observed in comparison to healthy subjects with normal liver function .
Hepatic contrast signal did not differ among the groups .
Severe hepatic impairment may impair EOVIST imaging performance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , especially in patients with abnormally high ( > 3 mg / dL ) serum bilirubin levels , the AUC was increased up to 60 % and the elimination half - life was increased up to 49 % .
The hepatobiliary excretion substantially decreased to about 5 % of the administered dose and reduced hepatic contrast signal was observed .
A dose adjustment is not necessary for patients with hepatic impairment .
In clinical studies , 489 patients had a diagnosis of liver cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh category A , n = 270 ; category B , n = 98 ; category C , n = 24 ; unknown category , n = 97 ) .
No difference in diagnostic performance and safety was observed among these patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE The maximum dose studied in MR imaging was 0 . 4 mL / kg ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg ) body weight and was tolerated in a manner similar to lower doses .
In case of inadvertent overdosage in patients with severely impaired renal and / or hepatic function , EOVIST can be partially removed by hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION EOVIST ( gadoxetate disodium ) is a paramagnetic contrast agent administered for MRI .
EOVIST is provided as a sterile , clear , colorless to pale yellow aqueous solution for intravenous injection .
EOVIST contains the active pharmaceutical ingredient , gadoxetate disodium ( Gd ‑ EOB ‑ DTPA ) .
The chemical name for gadoxetate disodium is ( 4 S ) - 4 - ( 4 - Ethoxybenzyl ) - 3 , 6 , 9 - tris ( carboxylatomethyl ) - 3 , 6 , 9 - triazaundecanedioic acid , gadolinium complex , disodium salt .
Gadoxetate disodium has a molecular weight of 725 . 72 and an empirical formula of GdC23H28N3O11Na2 .
The structural formula of gadoxetate disodium in aqueous solution is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of EOVIST contains 181 . 43 mg ( 0 . 25 mmol ) of gadoxetate disodium with 1 . 00 mg of caloxetate trisodium , 1 . 21 mg of trometamol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( for pH adjustment ) , and water for injection .
EOVIST contains no antimicrobial preservative .
Pertinent physiochemical properties of EOVIST are provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 Physicochemical PropertiesOsmolality at 37 ° C ( Osm / kg H2O ) 0 . 688 Viscosity at 37 ° C ( cP ) 1 . 19 • Density at 37 ° C ( g / mL ) 1 . 088 pH 6 . 8 - 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Gadoxetate disodium is a paramagnetic compound and develops a magnetic moment when placed in a magnetic field .
The relatively large magnetic moment produced by gadoxetate disodium results in a local magnetic field , yielding enhanced relaxation rates ( shortening of relaxation times ) of water protons in the vicinity of the paramagnetic agent , which leads to an increase in signal intensity ( brightening ) of blood and tissue .
In MRI , visualization of normal and pathological tissue depends in part on variations in the radiofrequency signal intensity that occur with 1 ) differences in proton density ; 2 ) differences of the spin - lattice or longitudinal relaxation times ( T1 ) ; and 3 ) differences in the spin - spin or transverse relaxation time ( T2 ) .
When placed in a magnetic field , gadoxetate disodium decreases the T1 and T2 relaxation time in target tissue .
At the recommended dose , the effect is observed with greatest sensitivity in T1 - weighted MR sequences .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics EOB - DTPA forms a stable complex with the paramagnetic gadolinium ion with a thermodynamic stability of log KGdL = ‑ 23 . 46 .
Gadoxetate disodium is a highly water - soluble , hydrophilic compound with a lipophilic moiety , the ethoxybenzyl group ( EOB ) .
Gadoxetate disodium shows a weak ( < 10 % ) , transient protein binding and the relaxivity in plasma is about 8 . 7 L / mmol / sec at pH 7 , 39 ° C and 0 . 47 T . Gadoxetate disodium is selectively taken up by hepatocytes [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] resulting in increased signal intensity in liver tissue [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
EOVIST exhibits a biphasic mode of action : first , distribution in the extracellular space after injection and subsequently , selective uptake by hepatocytes ( and biliary excretion ) due to the lipophilic ( EOB ) moiety .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution After intravenous administration , the plasma concentration time profile of gadoxetate disodium is characterized by a bi - exponential decline .
The total distribution volume of gadoxetate disodium at steady state is about 0 . 21 L / kg ( extracellular space ) ; plasma protein binding is less than 10 % .
Following GBCA administration , gadolinium is present for months or years in brain , bone , skin , and other organs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Elimination Gadoxetate disodium is equally eliminated via the renal and hepatobiliary routes .
The mean terminal elimination half - life of gadoxetate disodium ( 0 . 01 to 0 . 1 mmol / kg ) has been observed in healthy volunteers of 22 – 39 years of age to be 0 . 91 to 0 . 95 hour .
Clearance appeared to decrease slightly with increasing age .
The pharmacokinetics are dose - linear up to a dose of 0 . 4 mL / kg ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg ) , which is 4 times the recommended dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 , and8 . 7 ) ] .
A total serum clearance ( Cltot ) was 250 mL / min , whereas the renal clearance ( Clr ) corresponds to about 120 mL / min , a value similar to the glomerular filtration rate in healthy subjects .
Metabolism Gadoxetate disodium is not metabolized .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity studies of EOVIST have been conducted .
Gadoxetate disodium was not mutagenic in in vitro reverse mutation tests in bacteria , or in chromosome aberration tests in human peripheral blood lymphocytes , and was negative in an in vivo micronucleus test in mice after intravenous injection of doses up to 4 mmol / kg .
Gadoxetate disodium had no effect on fertility and general reproductive performance of male and female rats when given in doses 6 . 5 times the human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology A dose - related increase in QTc which was resolved by 30 minutes post dosing was observed in dogs when given a single dose of EOVIST .
The increase was noted when given in doses equal to or greater than 0 . 1 mmol / kg ( 2 . 2 times the human dose ) .
Maximum increase in QTcF was equal to or less than 20 ms at doses up to 0 . 5 mmol / kg ( 11 times the human dose ) .
A gait disturbance was observed in 1 of 3 mice when given EOVIST at a dose of approximately 1 . 1 mmol / kg ( 3 . 6 times the human dose ) ; the disturbance occurred at 30 minutes post dosing and resolved at 4 hours post dosing .
Local intolerance reactions , including moderate interstitial hemorrhage , edema , and focal muscle fiber necrosis , were observed after intramuscular administration of EOVIST [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Patients with suspected or known focal liver lesions were enrolled in two of four non - randomized , intrapatient - controlled studies that evaluated predominantly the detection ( studies 1 and 2 ) or morphological characterization ( studies 3 and 4 ) of liver lesions .
Studies 1 and 2 ( " detection " studies ) enrolled patients who were scheduled for liver surgery .
MRI results were compared to a reference standard that consisted of surgical histopathology and the results from intra - operative ultrasound of the liver .
The studies assessed the sensitivity of pre - contrast MRI and EOVIST - contrasted MRI for the detection of liver lesions , when each set of images was compared to the reference .
Studies 3 and 4 ( " characterization " studies ) enrolled patients with known or suspected focal liver lesions , including patients who were not scheduled for liver surgery .
MRI results were compared to a reference standard that consisted of surgical histopathology and other prospectively defined criteria .
The studies assessed the correctness of liver lesion characterization by pre - contrast MRI and EOVIST - contrasted MRI , when each set of images was compared to the reference .
Lesions were characterized as one of the following choices : hepatocellular carcinoma , cholangiocarcinoma , metastasis , focal lymphoma , adenoma , focal nodular hyperplasia , hemangioma , abscess , focal liver fibrosis , regenerative nodule , focal fat , hydatid cyst , liver cyst , " not assessable " , normal , no lesion or " other . "
In all four studies , patients underwent a baseline , pre - contrast MRI followed by the administration of EOVIST at a dose of 0 . 025 mmol / kg , with MRI performed immediately ( the " dynamic " phase ) and at 10 to 20 minutes following EOVIST administration ( the " hepatocyte " phase ) .
Patients also underwent computerized tomography with contrast examinations of the liver .
Pre - contrast MRI and EOVIST - contrasted MR images were evaluated in a systematic , randomized , paired and unpaired fashion by three radiologists who were blinded to clinical information .
CT images were also evaluated by the radiologists in a separate reading session .
Diagnostic efficacy was determined in 621 patients .
The average age was 57 years ( range 19 to 84 years ) and 54 % were male .
The ethnic representations were 90 % Caucasian , 4 % Black , 3 % Hispanic , 2 % Asian , and 1 % of other ethnic groups .
The combination of non - contrasted and EOVIST - contrasted MR images had improved sensitivity for the detection and characterization of liver lesions , compared to pre - contrasted MR images ( Tables 3 and 4 ) .
The improved sensitivity in detection of lesions was predominantly related to the detection of additional lesions among patients with multiple lesions on the pre - contrast MR images .
The false positive rates for detection of lesions were similar for non - contrasted MR images and EOVIST - contrasted MR images ( 32 % versus 34 % , respectively ) .
Liver lesion detection and characterization results were similar between CT and the combination of pre - contrasted and EOVIST - contrasted MR images .
Table 3 Sensitivity in Liver Lesion DetectionDiagnostic Procedure Reader Study 1 Sensitivity ( % ) n = 129 Study 2 Sensitivity ( % ) n = 126 Pre - contrast MRI Reader 1 76 77 Reader 2 76 73 Reader 3 71 72 Combined pre - and EOVIST - contrast MRI Reader 1 81 82 Reader 2 78 76 Reader 3 74 78 Difference : combined pre + EOVIST - contrast MRI minus pre MRI ( 95 % confidence interval ) Reader 1 5 ( 1 , 9 ) * 5 ( 1 , 9 ) * Reader 2 2 ( - 1 , 5 ) 3 ( - 1 , 7 ) Reader 3 3 ( 0 , 6 ) * 6 ( 0 , 10 ) * * Statistically significant improvement Table 4 Proportion of Correctly Characterized Lesions Study 3 Study 4 Diagnostic Procedure Reader n Proportion correct ( % ) ** n Proportion correct ( % ) ** Pre - contrast MRI Reader 1 182 51 177 60 Reader 2 182 59 177 64 Reader 3 182 53 177 48 Combined pre - and EOVIST - contrast MRI Reader 1 182 67 177 61 Reader 2 182 76 177 76 Reader 3 182 58 177 67 Difference : combined pre - and EOVIST - contrast MRI minus pre - contrast MRI ( 95 % confidence interval ) Reader 1 16 ( 7 , 25 ) * 1 ( - 7 , 10 ) Reader 2 17 ( 9 , 25 ) * 11 ( 5 , 18 ) * Reader 3 5 ( - 2 , 12 ) 19 ( 11 , 27 ) * * Statistically significant improvement ** Proportion of correctly characterized lesions with respect to the reference 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied EOVIST is supplied in single - dose , rubber stoppered containers ( vials ) containing 181 . 43 mg / mL of gadoxetate disodium ( equivalent to 0 . 25 mmol / mL gadoxetate disodium ) , in the following sizes : • 10 mL single - dose containers ( vials ) filled with 10 mL , boxes of 5 ( NDC 50419 - 320 - 05 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at temperatures between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
EOVIST is a ready - to - use solution for single use only .
Visually inspect EOVIST for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use the solution if it is discolored or if particulate matter is present .
The rubber stopper should not be pierced more than once .
Use EOVIST immediately after opening .
Unused portions should be discarded .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis Instruct patients to inform their physician if they : • • Have a history of kidney disease and / or liver disease • • Have recently received a GBCA GBCAs increase the risk of NSF among patients with impaired elimination of drugs .
To counsel patients at risk of NSF : • • Describe the clinical manifestations of NSF • • Describe procedures to screen for the detection of renal impairment Instruct the patients to contact their physician if they develop signs or symptoms of NSF following EOVIST administration , such as burning , itching , swelling , scaling , hardening and tightening of the skin ; red or dark patches on the skin ; stiffness in joints with trouble moving , bending or straightening the arms , hands , legs or feet ; pain in the hip bones or ribs ; or muscle weakness .
Common Adverse Reactions Inform patients that they may experience : • • Reactions along the venous injection site , such as mild and transient burning or pain or feeling of warmth or coldness at the injection site • • Side effects of headache , nausea , abnormal taste and feeling hot General Precautions Gadolinium Retention • • Advise patients that gadolinium is retained for months or years in brain , bone , skin , and other organs in patients with normal renal function .
The clinical consequences of retention are unknown .
Retention depends on multiple factors and is greater following administration of linear GBCAs than following administration of macrocyclic GBCAs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients receiving EOVIST to inform their physician if they : • • Are pregnant or breastfeeding • • Have a history of allergic reaction to contrast media , bronchial asthma or allergic respiratory disorder © 2008 , Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . , All rights reserved .
Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Whippany , NJ 07981 Manufactured in Germany Medication Guide EOVIST ( e - o - vist ) ( gadoxetate disodium ) Injection for intravenous use What is Eovist ?
• • Eovist is a prescription medicine called a gadolinium - based contrast agent ( GBCA ) .
Eovist , like other GBCAs , is injected into your vein and used with a magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) scanner .
• • An MRI exam with a GBCA , including Eovist , helps your doctor to see problems better than an MRI exam without a GBCA .
Eovist is needed to better see the problems in your liver .
• • Your doctor has reviewed your medical records and has determined that you would benefit from using a GBCA with your MRI exam .
What is the most important information I should know about Eovist ?
• • Eovist contains a metal called gadolinium .
Small amounts of gadolinium can stay in your body including the brain , bones , skin and other parts of your body for a long time ( several months to years ) .
• • It is not known how gadolinium may affect you , but so far , studies have not found harmful effects in patients with normal kidneys .
• • Rarely , patients have reported pains , tiredness , and skin , muscle or bone ailments for a long time , but these symptoms have not been directly linked to gadolinium .
• • At equivalent doses , the amount of gadolinium that stays in the body is different for different gadolinium medicines .
Gadolinium stays in the body more after Omniscan or Optimark than after Eovist , Magnevist , or MultiHance .
Gadolinium stays in the body the least after Dotarem , Gadavist , or ProHance .
• • People who get many doses of gadolinium medicines , women who are pregnant and young children may be at increased risk from gadolinium staying in the body .
• • Some people with kidney problems who get gadolinium medicines can develop a condition with severe thickening of the skin , muscles and other organs in the body ( nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ) .
Your healthcare provider should screen you to see how well your kidneys are working before you receive Eovist .
Do not receive Eovist if you have had a severe allergic reaction to Eovist .
Before receiving Eovist , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • have had any MRI procedures in the past where you received a GBCA .
Your healthcare provider may ask you for more information including the dates of these MRI procedures .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Eovist can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the possible risks to an unborn baby if a GBCA such as Eovist is received during pregnancy .
• • have kidney problems , diabetes , or high blood pressure .
• • have had an allergic reaction to dyes ( contrast agents ) including GBCAs What are the possible side effects of Eovist ?
• • See “ What is the most important information I should know about Eovist ? ”
• • Allergic reactions .
Eovist can cause allergic reactions that can sometimes be serious .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you closely for symptoms of an allergic reaction .
The most common side effects of Eovist include : nausea , headache , feeling hot , dizziness , and back pain .
These are not all the possible side effects of Eovist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of EOVIST .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about EOVIST that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Eovist ?
Active ingredient : gadoxetate disodium Inactive ingredients : caloxetate trisodium , trometamol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( for pH adjustment ) , and water for injection .
Manufactured for Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Manufactured in Germany © 2008 Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . eovist . com or call 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 .
Carton 5 x 10 mL NDC 50419 - 320 - 05 5 vials of 10 mL sterile solution Eovist ® 10 mL ( gadoxetate disodium ) Injection 0 . 25 mol / L Rx only Each mL contains 181 . 43 gadoxetate disodium and the excipients caloxetate trisodium , trometamol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( for pH adjustment ) , and water for injection .
Eovist ® contains no antimicrobial preservative .
Single - dose container .
Discard unused portion .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
For intravenous administration .
Dosage : See package insert .
Mfd .
for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Wayne , NJ 07470 Mfd .
in Germany [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
