USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg , Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg and Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg combine an angiotensin II receptor ( type AT1 ) antagonist and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium , a non - peptide molecule , is chemically described as 2 - butyl - 4 - chloro - 1 - [ p - ( o - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - ylphenyl ) benzyl ] imidazole - 5 - methanol monopotassium salt .
Its empirical formula is C22H22ClKN6O , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Losartan potassium , USP is a white to off - white free - flowing crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 461 . 01 .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohols , and slightly soluble in common organic solvents , such as acetonitrile and methyl ethyl ketone .
Oxidation of the 5 - hydroxymethyl group on the imidazole ring results in the active metabolite of losartan .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 , which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP are available for oral administration in three tablet combinations of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg contain 50 mg of losartan potassium USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg contain 100 mg of losartan potassium USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg contain 100 mg of losartan potassium USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , talc and titanium dioxide .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg and Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg also contain D and C yellow No . 10 lake .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg contain 4 . 24 mg ( 0 . 108 mEq ) of potassium , Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg contain 8 . 48 mg ( 0 . 216 mEq ) of potassium , and Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg contain 8 . 48 mg ( 0 . 216 mEq ) of potassium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension , except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy , but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Race , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Losartan Potassium , Reduction in the Risk of Stroke , Race , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium - hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy .
In clinical trials with losartan potassium - hydrochlorothiazide , no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed .
Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and / or hydrochlorothiazide .
The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo .
In general , treatment with losartan potassium - hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated .
For the most part , adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2 . 8 % and 2 . 3 % of patients treated with the combination and placebo , respectively .
In these double - blind controlled clinical trials , the following adverse experiences reported with losartan - hydrochlorothiazide occurred in ≥ 1 percent of patients , and more often on drug than placebo , regardless of drug relationship : Losartan Potassium - Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1 . 2 0 . 6 Edema / swelling 1 . 3 1 . 2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1 . 4 0 . 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2 . 1 0 . 6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5 . 7 2 . 9 Respiratory Cough 2 . 6 2 . 3 Sinusitis 1 . 2 0 . 6 Upper respiratory infection 6 . 1 4 . 6 Skin Rash 1 . 4 0 . 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater , but were as , or more , common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension : asthenia / fatigue , diarrhea , nausea , headache , bronchitis , pharyngitis .
Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women .
Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non - elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non - Blacks for both the losartan - hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups .
A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin , when treated with losartan potassium , was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash , reported as angioedema , which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued .
Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium .
OVERDOSAGE Losartan Potassium Significant lethality was observed in mice and rats after oral administration of 1000 mg / kg and 2000 mg / kg , respectively , about 44 and 170 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Limited data are available in regard to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Neither losartan nor its active metabolite can be removed by hemodialysis .
Hydrochlorothiazide The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Dosing must be individualized .
The usual starting dose of losartan is 50 mg once daily , with 25 mg recommended for patients with intravascular volume depletion ( e . g . , patients treated with diuretics ) ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension ─ Volume - Depleted Patients ) and patients with a history of hepatic impairment ( see WARNINGS , Impaired Hepatic Function ) .
Losartan can be administered once or twice daily at total daily doses of 25 to 100 mg .
If the antihypertensive effect measured at trough using once - a - day dosing is inadequate , a twice - a - day regimen at the same total daily dose or an increase in dose may give a more satisfactory response .
Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 to 50 mg once daily and can be given at doses of 12 . 5 to 25 mg as Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of losartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects .
Replacement Therapy : The combination may be substituted for the titrated components .
Dose Titration by Clinical Effect : A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan monotherapy ( see above ) or hydrochlorothiazide alone , may be switched to Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg ( losartan 50 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg ) once daily .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , the dose may be increased to two tablets of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily or one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg ( losartan 100 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg ) once daily .
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy ( see above ) may be switched to Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , the dose may be increased to two tablets of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily or one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg ( losartan 100 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg ) once daily .
A patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled by 25 mg once daily of hydrochlorothiazide , or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen , may be switched to Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg ( losartan 50 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg ) once daily , reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response .
The clinical response to Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg should be subsequently evaluated , and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , the dose may be increased to two tablets of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily or one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 100 mg / 25 mg ( losartan 100 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg ) once daily .
The usual dose of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide is one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
More than two tablets of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily or more than one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg once daily is not recommended .
The maximal antihypertensive effect is attained about 3 weeks after initiation of therapy .
Use in Patients with Renal Impairment : The usual regimens of therapy with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets may be followed as long as the patient ' s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are not recommended .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are not recommended for titration in patients with hepatic impairment ( see WARNINGS , Impaired Hepatic function ) because the appropriate 25 mg starting dose of losartan cannot be given .
Severe Hypertension The starting dose of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets for initial treatment of severe hypertension is one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects ) .
For patients who do not respond adequately to Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg after 2 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dosage may be increased to one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg once daily .
The maximum dose is one tablet of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg / 25 mg once daily .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with hepatic impairment ( see WARNINGS , Impaired Hepatic Function ) because the appropriate 25 mg starting dose of losartan cannot be given .
It is also not recommended for use as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion ( e . g . , patients treated with diuretics , see WARNINGS , Hypotension ─ Volume - Depleted Patients ) .
Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Treatment should be initiated with losartan potassium tablets 50 mg once daily .
Hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg should be added or Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg substituted if the blood pressure reduction is inadequate .
If additional blood pressure reduction is needed , losartan potassium tablets 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg or Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg may be substituted , followed by losartan potassium tablets 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg or Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 100 mg / 25 mg .
For further blood pressure reduction other antihypertensives should be added ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Losartan Potassium , Reduction in the Risk of Stroke ) .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets may be administered with or without food .
HOW SUPPLIED Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg are white to off white colored , oval shaped , biconvex film coated tablets , debossed with " 1117 " on one side and plain on other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 68258 - 6031 - 09 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ( See USP controlled room temperature ) .
Protect from light .
Keep container tightly closed .
Manufactured by : TORRENT PHARMACEUTICALS LTD . , Indrad - 382 721 , Dist .
Mehsana , INDIA .
For : TORRENT PHARMA INC . , 5380 Holiday Terrace , Suite 40 , Kalamazoo , Michigan 49009 .
Patient Information Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx only Read the Patient Information that comes with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition and treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Do not take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets can harm your unborn baby causing injury and even death .
Stop taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets if you become pregnant and call your doctor right away .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options before taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
What are Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets contain 2 prescription medicines , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) and a diuretic ( water pill ) .
It is used to : • lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets are not usually the first medicine used to treat high blood pressure .
• lower the chance of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and a heart problem called left ventricular hypertrophy ( LVH ) .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets may not help Black patients with this problem .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets have not been studied in children less than 18 years old .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension ) Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
The losartan ingredient in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
The hydrochlorothiazide ingredient in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets work by making your kidneys pass more water and salt .
Left Ventricular Hypertrophy ( LVH ) is an enlargement of the walls of the left chamber of the heart ( the heart ’ s main pumping chamber ) .
LVH can happen from several things .
High blood pressure is the most common cause of LVH .
Who should not take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Do not take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets if you : • are allergic to any ingredients in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
See a complete list of ingredients in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets at the end of this leaflet .
• are allergic to any sulfonamide - containing ( " sulfa " ) medicines .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure what sulfonamide - containing ( " sulfa " ) medicines are .
• are not passing urine .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ? "
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can pass into your milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
• have been vomiting ( throwing up ) , having diarrhea , sweating a lot , or not drinking enough fluids .
These could cause you to have low blood pressure .
• have liver problems • have kidney problems • have systemic lupus erythematosus ( Lupus ; SLE ) • have diabetes • have asthma • have gout • have any allergies Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and certain other medicines may interact with each other .
Especially tell your doctor if you are taking : • potassium supplements • salt substitutes containing potassium • water pills ( diuretics ) • lithium ( a medicine used to treat a certain kind of depression ) • medicines used to treat pain and arthritis , called non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , including COX - 2 inhibitors .
• other medicines to reduce blood pressure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
• Take Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your doctor may do blood tests from time to time while you are taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
What are the possible side effects of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets may cause the following side effects that may be serious : • injury or death of unborn babies .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ? "
• allergic reaction .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction are swelling of the face , lips , throat , or tongue .
Get emergency medical help right away and stop taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
• low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure may cause you to feel faint or dizzy .
Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• a new or worsening condition called systemic lupus erythematosus ( Lupus ; SLE ) • If you have kidney problems , you may see a worsening in how well your kidneys work .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
• If you have liver problems , you may see a worsening in how well your liver works .
Call your doctor if you get nausea , pain in the right upper stomach area ( abdomen ) , yellow eyes or skin ( which can be itchy ) .
• Eye problems .
One of the medicines in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets can cause eye problems that , if left untreated , may lead to vision loss .
Symptoms of eye problems can happen within hours to weeks of starting Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
Tell your doctor right away if you have : ○ decrease in vision ○ eye pain The most common side effects of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in people with high blood pressure are : • " colds " ( upper respiratory infection ) • dizziness • stuffy nose • back pain • fast or irregular heartbeat ( palpitations ) • rash Tell your doctor if you get any side effect that bothers you or that wo n't go away .
This is not a complete list of side effects .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
• Store Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ( See USP controlled room temperature ) .
• Keep Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in a tightly closed container , and keep Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets out of the light .
• Keep Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ?
Active ingredients : losartan potassium , USP and hydrochlorothiazide , USP Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , talc and titanium dioxide .
Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg and Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg also contain D and C yellow No . 10 lake .
Manufactured by : TORRENT PHARMACEUTICALS LTD . , Indrad - 382 721 , Dist .
Mehsana , INDIA .
For : TORRENT PHARMA INC . , 5380 Holiday Terrace , Suite 40 , Kalamazoo , Michigan 49009 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 6031 - XX NDC 68258 - 6031 - 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
