[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES SECTION Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasms ( 5 . 2 ) 04 / 2022 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
[ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) . ]
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Women over 35 years old who smoke should not use norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use ( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Jaimiess ® is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
Jaimiess is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
The dosage of Jaimiess is one peach tablet containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by one yellow ethinyl estradiol tablet for 7 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Jaimiess must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
Instruct the patient to begin taking Jaimiess on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , the first peach tablet is taken that day .
One peach tablet should be taken daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days .
A non - hormonal back - up method of contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used until a peach tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days .
A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken .
Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which the patient began her first dose of Jaimiess following the same schedule : 84 days taking a peach tablet followed by 7 days taking a yellow tablet .
If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack , she should protect herself from pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until she has taken a peach tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider .
For patient instructions regarding missed pills , see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
For postpartum women who are not breastfeeding , start Jaimiess no earlier than four to six weeks postpartum due to increased risk of thromboembolism .
If the patient starts on Jaimiess postpartum and has not yet had a period , evaluate for possible pregnancy , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a peach tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Jaimiess tablets ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP ) are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : 84 peach tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The peach tablets are round , film - coated , debossed with SZ on one side and J4 on the other side .
The yellow tablets are round , film - coated , debossed with SZ on one side and L1 on the other side .
Jaimiess consists of 84 peach tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Jaimiess is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : ∘ Smoke , if over age 35 [ see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
∘ Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
∘ Have cerebrovascular disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
∘ Have coronary artery disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
∘ Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] ∘ Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
∘ Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
∘ Have diabetes with vascular disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
∘ Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with or without aura if over age 35 [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive .
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 10 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Co - administration with hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop Jaimiess if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop Jaimiess atleast 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start Jaimiess no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue Jaimiess if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) • | High blood pressure : Do not prescribe Jaimiess for women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease .
( 5 . 5 ) • | Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Jaimiess .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 7 ) • | Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Jaimiess if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • | Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events Stop Jaimiess if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event occurs .
Although the use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolism , pregnancy increases the risk of venous thromboembolism as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of venous thromboembolism in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The excess risk is highest during the first year of use of a COC .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Use of Jaimiess provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly oral contraceptives containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 and 13 weeks of exposure to progestin and estrogen , respectively , per year ) .
If feasible , stop Jaimiess at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
Start Jaimiess no earlier than 4 to 6 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) , although , in general , the risk is greatest among older ( > 35 years of age ) , and hypertensive women who also smoke .
COCs also increase the risk for stroke in women with other underlying risk factors .
Oral contraceptives must be used with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
Stop Jaimiess if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
5 . 2 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Jaimiess is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ seePostmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 3 Liver Disease Discontinue Jaimiess if jaundice develops .
Steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
Oral contraceptive - related cholestasis may occur in women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis .
Women with a history of COC - related cholestasis may have the condition recur with subsequent COC use .
5 . 4 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that containsobmitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Jaimiess prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
Jaimiess can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 5 High Blood Pressure For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Jaimiess if blood pressure rises significantly .
Women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease should not use COCs .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentration of progestin .
5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
5 . 7 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking Jaimiess .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance in a dose - related fashion .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 8 Headache If a woman taking Jaimiess develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Jaimiess if indicated .
An increase in frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) may be a reason for immediate discontinuation of the COC .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities Unscheduled ( breakthrough ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first 3 months of use .
If bleeding persists , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC .
When prescribing Jaimiess , the convenience of fewer planned menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) should be weighed against the inconvenience of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
The primary clinical trial ( PSE - 301 ) that evaluated the efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets also assessed unscheduled bleeding .
The participants in the 12 - month clinical trial ( N = 1 , 006 ) completed the equivalent of 8 , 681 28 - day cycles of exposure and were composed primarily of women who had used oral contraceptives previously ( 89 % ) as opposed to new users ( 11 % ) .
A total of 82 ( 8 . 2 % ) of the women discontinued levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly constant over time , with an average of 3 days of bleeding and / or spotting per each 91 - day cycle .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 1 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 2 presents the number of days with unscheduled spotting in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 1 Total Number of Days with Unscheduled BleedingQ1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding 91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 1 4 10 6 . 9 1 . 7 4 th 0 1 4 3 . 2 0 . 8 Table 2 Total Number of Days with Unscheduled SpottingQ1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting .
91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 1 4 11 7 . 4 1 . 9 4 th 0 2 7 4 . 4 1 . 1 Figure 1 shows the percentage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets subjects participating in trial PSE - 301 with ≥ 7 days or ≥ 20 days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , or only unscheduled bleeding , during each 91 - day treatment cycle .
Figure 1 Percent of Women Taking Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets who Reported Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting or only Unscheduled Bleeding [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amenorrhea sometimes occurs in women who are using COCs .
Pregnancy should be ruled out in the event of amenorrhea .
Some women may encounter amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 10 COC Use Before and During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects are concerned , when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Oral contraceptive use should be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed .
The administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 11 Emotional Disorders Women with a history of depression should be carefully observed and Jaimiess discontinued if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 12 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may change the results of some laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid binding globulin increase with use of COCs .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated health care .
5 . 14 Other Conditions In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking COCs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and smoking [ see BOXED WARNING AND WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in clinical trials for Jaimiess are irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding , weight gain , and acne .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Xiromed , LLC at 1 - 844 - XIROMED ( 1 - 844 - 947 - 6633 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical trial that evaluated the safety and efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets was a 12 - month , randomized , multicenter , open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 to 40 , of whom 1 , 006 took at least one dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation 16 . 3 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % of women ) leading to discontinuation were irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding ( 5 . 9 % ) , weight gain ( 2 . 4 % ) , mood changes ( 1 . 5 % ) , and acne ( 1 . 0 % ) .
Common Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % of women ) Irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding ( 17 % ) , weight gain ( 5 % ) , acne ( 5 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions Migraine , cholecystitis , cholelithiasis , pancreatitis , abdominal pain , and major depressive disorder .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 - 1 . 12 ( Figure 2 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 2 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 - 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 2 Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency of establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal distension , vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , fatigue , malaise , edema peripheral , pain Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reaction Investigations : blood pressure increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscle spasms , pain in extremity Nervous system disorders : dizziness , loss of consciousness Psychiatric disorders : insomnia Reproductive and breast disorders : dysmenorrhea Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : pulmonary embolism , pulmonary thrombosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia Vascular disorders : thrombosis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Jaimiess .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co - Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize contraceptive hormones , counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception .
Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones , and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration of HIV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
7 . 2 Increase in Plasma Levels of Estradiol Associated with Co - Administered Drugs Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol levels , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone levels .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Vaccine ( HCV ) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Jaimiess with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 Changes in Plasma Levels of Co - Administered Drugs COCs containing some synthetic estrogens ( e . g . , ethinyl estradiol ) may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds .
COCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Consult the labeling of the concurrently - used drug to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for enzyme alterations .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Not recommended for nursing mothers ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
COCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
Women who do not breastfeed may start COCs no earlier than four to six weeks postpartum .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has weaned her child .
Estrogen - containing COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Jaimiess have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of Jaimiess before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Jaimiess have not been studied in women who have reached menopause and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Jaimiess .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal .
[ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Jaimiess .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Jaimiess is an extended - cycle oral contraceptive consisting of 84 peach tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , a synthetic progestogen and 0 . 03 mg of ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The structural formulas for the active components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 4 Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - , ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 4 Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
Each peach tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , iron oxide black , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , povidone , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Each yellow tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , lecithin , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , titanium dioxide and xanthan gum .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours after levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , and ethinyl estradiol administration .
Levonorgestrel is completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is approximately 43 % .
The daily exposure to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol on Day 21 , corresponding to the end of a typical 3 - week contraceptive regimen , and on Day 84 , at the end of an extended cycle regimen , were similar .
There was no additional accumulation of ethinyl estradiol after dosing a 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol tablet during Days 84 to 91 .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , and ethinyl estradiol following a single dose of one levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol combination tablet , for 84 days , in normal healthy women are reported in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol , and Ethinyl Estradiol During Daily One Tablet Dosing for 84 Days AUC0 - 24 hr ( mean ± SD ) Cmax ( mean ± SD ) Tmax ( mean ± SD ) Levonorgestrel Day 1 18 . 2 ± 6 . 1 ng • hr / mL 3 . 0 ± 1 . 0 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 21 64 . 4 ± 25 . 1 ng • hr / mL 6 . 2 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 84 60 . 2 ± 24 . 6 ng • hr / mL 5 . 5 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours Ethinyl Estradiol Day 1 509 . 3 ± 172 . 0 pg • hr / mL 69 . 8 ± 26 pg / mL 1 . 5 ± 0 . 3 hours Day 21 837 . 1 ± 271 . 2 pg • hr / mL 99 . 6 ± 31 pg / mL 1 . 5 ± 0 . 3 hours Day 84 791 . 5 ± 215 . 0 pg • hr / mL 91 . 3 ± 32 pg / mL 1 . 6 ± 0 . 3 hours The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol absorption following oral administration of Jaimiess has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol are reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg and 4 . 3 L / kg , respectively .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 95 to 97 % bound to serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Following repeated daily dosing of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased SHBG levels that are induced by ethinyl estradiol , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate and to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol involves formation of ethinyl estradiol - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed ethinyl estradiol by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
The terminal elimination half - life for levonorgestrel after a single dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol was about 34 hours .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The terminal elimination half - life of ethinyl estradiol after a single dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , and ethinyl estradiol was found to be about 18 hours .
Race The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of Jaimiess has not been evaluated .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month , multicenter , randomized , open - label clinical trial , 1 , 006 women aged 18 to 40 were studied to assess the safety and efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , and ethinyl estardiol , completing the equivalent of 8 , 681 28 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was : Caucasian ( 80 % ) , African - American ( 11 % ) , Hispanic ( 5 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 2 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range of those women treated was 91 to 360 lbs . , with a mean weight of 156 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 63 % were current or recent hormonal contraceptive users , 26 % were prior users ( who had used hormonal contraceptives in the past but not in the 6 months prior to enrollment ) , and 11 % were new starts .
Of treated women , 14 . 8 % were lost to follow - up , 16 . 3 % discontinued due to an adverse event , and 12 . 9 % discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women aged 18 to 35 years was 1 . 34 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 54 - 2 . 75 ) , based on 7 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and within 14 days after the last combination pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes patients who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Jaimiess ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP ) are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : 84 peach tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The peach tablets are round , film - coated , debossed with SZ on one side and J4 on the other side .
The yellow tablets are round , film - coated , debossed with SZ on one side and L1 on the other side .
NDC 63629 - 2345 - 01 ( 1 extended - cycle tablet dispenser , each tablet dispenser contains 91 tablets ) 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling • Counsel patients that cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs .
• Counsel patients that this product does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Counsel patients on Warnings and Precautions associated with COCs .
• Counsel patients to take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS section of FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
• Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• Counsel patients who are breastfeeding or who desire to breastfeed that COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Counsel any patient who starts COCs postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a peach tablet for 7 consecutive days .
• Counsel patients that amenorrhea may occur .
Pregnancy should be considered in the event of amenorrhea , and should be ruled out if amenorrhea is associated with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
JAIMIESS is a registered trademark of Laboratories Leon Farma S . A . , .
Manufactured by Laboratorios Leon Farma S . A . , Spain For Xiromed , LLC , Florham Park , NJ 07932 Product of Spain Rev . 06 / 2022 PI - 123 - 03 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Jaimiess ® Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg and 0 . 01 mg for oral use Initial U . S . Approval : 1982 WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use Jaimiess if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Birth control pills help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
What is Jaimiess ?
Jaimiess is a birth control pill .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called levonorgestrel .
How Well Does Jaimiess Work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a single clinical study lasting 12 months , 1 to 3 women , out of 100 women , may get pregnant during the first year they use Jaimiess .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How Do I Take Jaimiess ?
1 .
Take one pill every day at the same time .
If you miss pills you could get pregnant .
This includes starting the pack late .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
2 .
Many women have spotting or light bleeding , or may feel sick to their stomach during the first few months of taking Jaimiess .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
3 .
Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
4 .
If you have trouble remembering to take Jaimiess , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
Before You Start Taking Jaimiess • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
• Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
Your Tablet Dispenser consists of a Tri - Fold Blister card that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 84 peach and 7 yellow pills .
The first two blister card sections each contain 28 peach pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) .
The third blister card section contains 35 pills consisting of 28 peach pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 yellow pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Also find : ∘ Where on the first blister card in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner at the start arrow ) and ∘ In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks and arrow ) .
• Be sure you have ready at all times another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When To Start Jaimiess • Take the first peach pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first peach pill that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first peach pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the “ patch , ” or the “ vaginal ring ” ) , you need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken Jaimiess for 7 days .
How To Take Jaimiess • Take one pill at the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the tablet dispenser .
• Do not skip pills even if you are experiencing spotting or bleeding or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• When you finish a tablet dispenser • After taking the last yellow pill , start taking the first peach pill from a new Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser the very next day ( this should be on a Sunday ) regardless of when your period started .
• If you miss your scheduled period when you are taking the yellow pills , contact your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you are pregnant , you should stop taking Jaimiess .
What To Do If You Miss Pills If you MISS 1 peach pill : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you MISS 2 peach pills in a row : • Take 2 pills on the day you remember , and 2 pills the next day .
• Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You MUST use another birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back up for the 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE peach pills in a row : • Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day as indicated on the pack until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example : If you resume taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under “ Thursday ” and do not take the missed pills .
You may experience bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
• You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the yellow pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you MISS ANY of the 7 yellow pills : • Throw away the missed pills .
• Keep taking the scheduled pills until the pack is finished .
• You do not need a back - up method of birth control .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed • Use a back - up method anytime you have sex .
• Keep taking one pill each day until you contact your healthcare provider .
Who Should Not Take Jaimiess ?
Your healthcare provider will not give you Jaimiess if you have : • Ever had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • Liver disease , including liver tumors • Been prescribed any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood • Ever had blood clots in your arms , legs , or lungs • Ever had a stroke • Ever had a heart attack • Certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • An inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal High blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • Diabetes with kidney , eye , or blood vessel damage • Certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision Also , do not take birth control pills if you : • Smoke and are over 35 years old • Are pregnant Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy .
What Else Should I Know About Taking Jaimiess ?
Birth control pills do not protect you against any sexually transmitted disease , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like Jaimiess , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Consider using another birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your physician may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like condoms or a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
What Are The Most Serious Risks Of Taking Birth Control Pills ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age > 35 .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( thrombophlebitis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) Women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure • Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What Are Common Side Effects Of Birth Control Pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat levels in the blood • Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight changes This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
Do Birth Control Pills Cause Cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What Should I Know About My Period When Taking Jaimiess ?
When you take Jaimiess , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should expect to have 4 scheduled periods per year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 yellow pills ) .
Each period is likely to last about 3 days .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
During the first Jaimiess 91 - day treatment cycle , about 3 in 10 women may have 20 or more days of unplanned bleeding or spotting .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with time .
Do not stop taking Jaimiess because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
What If I Miss My Scheduled Period When Taking Jaimiess ?
You should consider the possibility that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the days that you are taking yellow tablets ) .
Since scheduled periods are less frequent when you are taking Jaimiess , notify your healthcare provider that you have missed your period and that you are taking Jaimiess .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider evaluates you to determine if you are pregnant .
Stop taking Jaimiess if it is determined that you are pregnant .
What If I Want To Become Pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
General Advice About Jaimiess Your healthcare provider prescribed Jaimiess for you .
Do not share Jaimiess with anyone else .
Keep Jaimiess out of the reach of children .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your healthcare providers for a more detailed label written for medical professionals .
The brands listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Xiromed , LLC .
Manufactured by Laboratorios Leon Farma S . A . , Spain For Xiromed , LLC , Florham Park , NJ 07932 Product of Spain Rev . 06 / 2022 PI - 123 - 03 Levonorgestrel / Ethinyl Estradiol Tab , # 91 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
