1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tasimelteon is a melatonin receptor agonist .
Tasimelteon capsules are indicated for the treatment of : • Non - 24 - Hour Sleep - Wake Disorder ( Non - 24 ) in adults ( 1 ) 1 . 1 Non - 24 - Hour Sleep - Wake Disorder ( Non - 24 ) • Tasimelteon capsules are indicated for the treatment of Non - 24 in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indicated Population Dosage Form Body Weight Recommended Dosage Non - 24 ( 2 . 2 ) Adults Capsules Not applicable 20 mg one hour prior to bedtime • Administer at the same time every night ( 2 . 2 ) • Take without food ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Tasimelteon Capsules for Non - 24 Adults The recommended dosage of tasimelteon capsules in adults is 20 mg one hour before bedtime , at the same time every night .
Because of individual differences in circadian rhythms , drug effect may not occur for weeks or months .
2 . 4 Important Administration Information Administer tasimelteon capsules without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
If a patient is unable to take tasimelteon capsules at approximately the same time on a given night , they should skip that dose and take the next dose as scheduled .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : Each size 1 hard gelatin capsule with light blue opaque cap and body imprinted with A44 on cap in black ink contains white to off - white color granular powder .
Capsules : 20 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS May cause somnolence : After taking tasimelteon capsules , patients should limit their activity to preparing for going to bed , because tasimelteon can impair the performance of activities requiring complete mental alertness ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Somnolence After taking tasimelteon capsules , patients should limit their activity to preparing for going to bed .
Tasimelteon can potentially impair the performance of activities requiring complete mental alertness .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 5 % and at least twice as high on tasimelteon than on placebo ) were headache , increased alanine aminotransferase , nightmares or unusual dreams , and upper respiratory or urinary tract infection ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
More than 2080 subjects have been treated with at least one dose of tasimelteon , of which more than 380 have been treated for > 26 weeks and more than 170 have been treated for > 1 year .
Non - 24 - Hour Sleep - Wake Disorder ( Non - 24 ) A 26 - week , parallel - arm placebo - controlled study ( Study 1 ) evaluated tasimelteon ( n = 42 ) compared to placebo ( n = 42 ) in patients with Non - 24 .
A randomized - withdrawal , placebo - controlled study of 8 weeks duration ( Study 2 ) also evaluated tasimelteon ( n = 10 ) , compared to placebo ( n = 10 ) , in patients with Non - 24 .
In placebo - controlled studies , 6 % of patients exposed to tasimelteon discontinued treatment due to an adverse event , compared with 4 % of patients who received placebo .
Table 2 shows the incidence of adverse reactions from Study 1 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions in Study 1 Tasimelteon N = 42 Placebo N = 42 Headache 17 % 7 % Alanine aminotransferase increased 10 % 5 % Nightmare / abnormal dreams 10 % 0 % Upper respiratory tract infection 7 % 0 % Urinary tract infection 7 % 2 % * Adverse reactions with an incidence > 5 % and at least twice as high on tasimelteon than on placebo are displayed .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( e . g . , fluvoxamine ) : Avoid use of tasimelteon in combination with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors because of increased exposure ( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Strong CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) : Avoid use of tasimelteon in combination with rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers , because of decreased exposure ( 7 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors ( e . g . , fluvoxamine ) Avoid use of tasimelteon in combination with fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors because of a potentially large increase in tasimelteon exposure and greater risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Strong CYP3A4 Inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) Avoid use of tasimelteon in combination with rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers because of a potentially large decrease in tasimelteon exposure with reduced efficacy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Beta - Adrenergic Receptor Antagonists ( e . g . , acebutolol , metoprolol ) Beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists have been shown to reduce the production of melatonin via specific inhibition of beta - 1 adrenergic receptors .
Nighttime administration of beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists may reduce the efficacy of tasimelteon .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic impairment : Tasimelteon has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and is not recommended in these patients ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available postmarketing case reports with tasimelteon use in pregnant women are not sufficient to evaluate drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In pregnant rats , no embryofetal developmental toxicity was observed at exposures of 50 mg / kg / day , or up to 24 times higher than the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In pregnant rats administered tasimelteon at oral doses of 5 mg / kg / day , 50 mg / kg / day , or 500 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis , there were no effects on embryofetal development .
The highest dose tested is approximately 240 times the MRHD of 20 mg / day , based on mg / m2 body surface area .
In pregnant rabbits administered tasimelteon at oral doses of 5 mg / kg / day , 30 mg / kg / day , or 200 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis , embryolethality and embryofetal toxicity ( reduced fetal body weight and delayed ossification ) were observed at the highest dose tested .
The highest dose is approximately 200 times the MRHD .
Oral administration of tasimelteon at 50 mg / kg / day , 150 mg / kg / day , or 450 mg / kg / day to rats throughout organogenesis resulted in persistent reductions in body weight , delayed sexual maturation , and physical development , and neurobehavioral impairment in offspring at the highest dose tested which is approximately 220 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
Reduced body weight in offspring was also observed at the mid - dose .
The no effect dose ( NOEL ) , ( 50 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 25 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tasimelteon or its metabolites in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for tasimelteon and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from tasimelteon or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of tasimelteon for the treatment of Non - 24 in pediatric patients have not been established .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Juvenile rats received oral doses of tasimelteon at 50 , 150 , or 450 mg / kg from weaning ( day 21 ) through adulthood ( day 90 ) .
These doses are approximately 12 to 108 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg based on a mg / m2 body surface area .
Toxicity was observed mainly at the highest dose and included mortality ( females only ) , tremors , unsteady gait , decrease in growth and development compared to controls .
The former reflected as decreases in bone growth , bone mineral content , bone ossification , and a delay in attainment of sexual maturation .
Tasimelteon had no effect on fertility , reproduction , or learning and memory .
The No Observed Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) is 150 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 178 times the MRHD based on AUC .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The risk of adverse reactions may be greater in elderly ( > 65 years ) patients than younger patients because exposure to tasimelteon is increased by approximately 2 - fold compared with younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Tasimelteon has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Therefore , tasimelteon is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Smokers Smoking causes induction of CYP1A2 levels .
The exposure of tasimelteon in smokers was lower than in non - smokers and therefore the efficacy of tasimelteon may be reduced in smokers [ see Clinical pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Tasimelteon is not a controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act .
9 . 2 Abuse Tasimelteon did not produce any abuse - related signals in animal behavioral studies .
Rats did not self - administer tasimelteon , suggesting that the drug does not have rewarding properties .
There were also no signs or symptoms indicative of abuse potential in clinical studies with tasimelteon .
9 . 3 Dependence Discontinuation of tasimelteon in humans following chronic administration did not produce withdrawal signs .
Tasimelteon does not appear to produce physical dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is limited premarketing clinical experience with the effects of an overdosage of tasimelteon .
As with the management of any overdose , general symptomatic and supportive measures should be used , along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
Respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate vital signs should be monitored , and general supportive measures employed .
While hemodialysis was effective at clearing tasimelteon and the majority of its major metabolites in patients with renal impairment , it is not known if hemodialysis will effectively reduce exposure in the case of overdose .
As with the management of any overdose , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
Contact a poison control center for current information on the management of overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Tasimelteon is a melatonin receptor agonist , chemically designated as ( 1 R , 2 R ) - N - [ 2 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydrobenzofuran - 4 - yl ) cyclopropylmethyl ] propanamide , containing two chiral centers .
The molecular formula is C15H19NO2 , and the molecular weight is 245 . 32 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tasimelteon is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is very slightly soluble in cyclohexane , slightly soluble in water and 0 . 1 N hydrochloric acid , and freely soluble or very soluble in methanol , 95 % ethanol , acetonitrile , isopropanol , polyethylene glycol 300 , propylene glycol and ethyl acetate .
Tasimelteon is available in 20 mg strength capsules for oral administration .
Inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Each capsule shell consists of FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
The imprinting ink contains black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which tasimelteon exerts its therapeutic effect in patients with Non - 24 is unclear .
However , tasimelteon is an agonist at melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptors which are thought to be involved in the control of circadian rhythms .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tasimelteon is an agonist at MT1 and MT2 receptors with greater affinity for the MT2 as compared to the MT1 receptor ( Ki = 0 . 304 nM and 0 . 07 nM , respectively ) .
The major metabolites of tasimelteon have less than one - tenth of the binding affinity of the parent molecule for both the MT1 and MT2 receptors .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of tasimelteon is linear over doses ranging from 3 to 300 mg ( 0 . 15 to 15 times the recommended daily dosage ) .
The pharmacokinetics of tasimelteon and its metabolites did not change with repeated daily dosing .
Absorption The absolute oral bioavailability is 38 . 3 % .
The peak concentration ( Tmax ) of tasimelteon occurred approximately 0 . 5 to 3 hours after fasted oral administration .
Effect of food When administered with a high - fat meal , the Cmax of tasimelteon was 44 % lower than when given in a fasted state , and the median Tmax was delayed by approximately 1 . 75 hours .
Therefore , tasimelteon should be taken without food .
Distribution The apparent oral volume of distribution of tasimelteon at steady state in young healthy subjects is approximately 59 L to 126 L .
At therapeutic concentrations , tasimelteon is about 90 % bound to proteins .
Metabolism Tasimelteon is extensively metabolized .
Metabolism of tasimelteon consists primarily of oxidation at multiple sites and oxidative dealkylation resulting in opening of the dihydrofuran ring followed by further oxidation to give a carboxylic acid .
CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are the major isozymes involved in the metabolism of tasimelteon .
Phenolic glucuronidation is the major phase II metabolic route .
Major metabolites had 13 - fold or less activity at melatonin receptors compared to tasimelteon .
Elimination Following oral administration of radiolabeled tasimelteon , 80 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 4 % in feces , resulting in a mean recovery of 84 % .
Less than 1 % of the dose was excreted in urine as the parent compound .
The observed mean elimination half - life for tasimelteon is 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours .
The mean terminal elimination half - life ± standard deviation of the main metabolites ranges from 1 . 3 ± 0 . 5 to 3 . 7 ± 2 . 2 .
Repeated once daily dosing with tasimelteon does not result in changes in pharmacokinetic parameters or significant accumulation of tasimelteon .
Studies in Specific Populations Elderly In elderly subjects , tasimelteon exposure increased by approximately two - fold compared with non - elderly adults .
Gender The mean overall exposure of tasimelteon was approximately 20 % to 30 % greater in female than in male subjects .
Race The effect of race on exposure of tasimelteon was not evaluated .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetic profile of a 20 mg dose of tasimelteon was compared among eight subjects with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Score ≥ 5 and ≤ 6 points ) , eight subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Score ≥ 7 and ≤ 9 points ) , and 13 healthy matched controls .
Tasimelteon exposure was increased less than two - fold in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment .
Therefore , no dose adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Tasimelteon has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) and is not recommended in these patients .
Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetic profile of a 20 mg dose of tasimelteon was compared among eight subjects with severe renal impairment ( estimated glomerular filtration rate [ eGFR ] ≤ 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , eight subjects with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) ( GFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) requiring hemodialysis , and sixteen healthy matched controls .
There was no apparent relationship between tasimelteon CL / F and renal function , as measured by either estimated creatinine clearance or eGFR .
Subjects with severe renal impairment had a 30 % lower clearance , and clearance in subjects with ESRD was comparable to that of healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment .
Smokers ( smoking is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer ) Tasimelteon exposure decreased by approximately 40 % in smokers , compared to non - smokers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies No potential drug interactions were identified in in vitro studies with CYP inducers or inhibitors of CYP1A1 , CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 / 2C19 , CYP2E1 , CYP2D6 , and transporters including P - glycoprotein , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT2 , OAT1 , and OAT3 .
Effect of Other Drugs on Tasimelteon Drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are expected to alter the metabolism of tasimelteon .
Fluvoxamine ( strong CYP1A2 inhibitor ) : the AUC0 - inf and Cmax of tasimelteon increased by 7 - fold and 2 - fold , respectively , when coadministered with fluvoxamine 50 mg ( after 6 days of fluvoxamine 50 mg per day ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) : tasimelteon exposure increased by approximately 50 % when coadministered with ketoconazole 400 mg ( after 5 days of ketoconazole 400 mg per day ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Rifampin ( strong CYP3A4 and moderate CYP2C19 inducer ) : the exposure of tasimelteon decreased by approximately 90 % when coadministered with rifampin 600 mg ( after 11 days of rifampin 600 mg per day ) .
Efficacy may be reduced when tasimelteon is used in combination with strong CYP3A4 inducers , such as rifampin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Effect of Tasimelteon on Other Drugs Midazolam ( CYP3A4 substrate ) : Administration of tasimelteon 20 mg once a day for 14 days did not produce any significant changes in the Tmax , Cmax , or AUC of midazolam or 1 - OH midazolam .
This indicates there is no induction of CYP3A4 by tasimelteon at this dose .
Rosiglitazone ( CYP2C8 substrate ) : Administration of tasimelteon 20 mg once a day for 16 days did not produce any clinically significant changes in the Tmax , Cmax , or AUC of rosiglitazone after oral administration of 4 mg .
This indicates that there is no induction of CYP2C8 by tasimelteon at this dose .
Effect of Alcohol on Tasimelteon In a study of 28 healthy volunteers , a single dose of ethanol ( 0 . 6 g / kg for women and 0 . 7 g / kg for men ) was coadministered with a 20 mg dose of tasimelteon .
There was a trend for an additive effect of tasimelteon and ethanol on some psychomotor tests .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Tasimelteon was administered orally for up to two years to mice ( 30 mg / kg / day , 100 mg / kg / day , and 300 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 20 mg / kg / day , 100 mg / kg / day , and 250 mg / kg / day ) .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice ; the highest dose tested is approximately 75 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg / day , based on a mg / m2 body surface area .
In rats , the incidence of liver tumors was increased in males ( adenoma and carcinoma ) and females ( adenoma ) at 100 mg / kg / day and 250 mg / kg / day ; the incidence of tumors of the uterus ( endometrial adenocarcinoma ) and uterus and cervix ( squamous cell carcinoma ) were increased at 250 mg / kg / day .
There was no increase in tumors at the lowest dose tested in rats , which is approximately 10 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 body surface area .
Mutagenesis Tasimelteon was negative in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , an in vitro cytogenetics assay in primary human lymphocytes , and an in vivo micronucleus assay in rats .
Impairment of Fertility When male and female rats were given tasimelteon at oral doses of 5 mg / kg / day , 50 mg / kg / day , or 500 mg / kg / day prior to and throughout mating and continuing in females to gestation day 7 , estrus cycle disruption and decreased fertility were observed at all but the lowest dose tested .
The no - effect dose for effects on female reproduction ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 2 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 body surface area .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Non - 24 - Hour Sleep - Wake Disorder ( Non - 24 ) The effectiveness of tasimelteon in the treatment of Non - 24 - Hour Sleep - Wake Disorder ( Non - 24 ) was established in two randomized double - masked , placebo - controlled , multicenter , parallel - group studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) in totally blind patients with Non - 24 .
In study 1 , 84 patients with Non - 24 ( median age 54 years ) were randomized to receive tasimelteon 20 mg or placebo , one hour prior to bedtime , at the same time every night for up to 6 months .
Study 2 was a randomized withdrawal trial in 20 patients with Non - 24 ( median age 55 years ) that was designed to evaluate the maintenance of efficacy of tasimelteon after 12 - weeks .
Patients were treated for approximately 12 weeks with tasimelteon 20 mg one hour prior to bedtime , at the same time every night .
Patients in whom the calculated time of peak melatonin level ( melatonin acrophase ) occurred at approximately the same time of day ( in contrast to the expected daily delay ) during the run - in phase were randomized to receive placebo or continue treatment with tasimelteon 20 mg for 8 weeks .
Study 1 and Study 2 evaluated the duration and timing of nighttime sleep and daytime naps via patient - recorded diaries .
During Study 1 , patient diaries were recorded for an average of 88 days during screening , and 133 days during randomization .
During Study 2 , patient diaries were recorded for an average of 57 days during the run - in phase , and 59 days during the randomized - withdrawal phase .
Because symptoms of nighttime sleep disruption and daytime sleepiness are cyclical in patients with Non - 24 , with severity varying according to the state of alignment of the individual patient ’ s circadian rhythm with the 24 - hour day ( least severe when fully aligned , most severe when 12 hours out of alignment ) , efficacy endpoints for nighttime total sleep time and daytime nap duration were based on the 25 % of nights with the least nighttime sleep , and the 25 % of days with the most daytime nap time .
In Study 1 , patients in the tasimelteon group had , at baseline , an average 195 minutes of nighttime sleep and 137 minutes of daytime nap time on the 25 % of most symptomatic nights and days , respectively .
Treatment with tasimelteon resulted in a significant improvement , compared with placebo , for both of these endpoints in Study 1 and Study 2 ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Effects of Tasimelteon 20 mg on Nighttime Sleep Time and Daytime Nap Time in Study 1 and Study 2 Study 1 Study 2 Change from Baseline Tasimelteon 20 mg N = 42 Placebo N = 42 Tasimelteon 20 mg N = 10 Placebo N = 10 Nighttime sleep time on 25 % most symptomatic nights ( minutes ) 50 22 - 7 - 74 Daytime nap time on 25 % most symptomatic days ( minutes ) - 49 - 22 - 9 50 A responder analysis of patients with both ≥ 45 minutes increase in nighttime sleep and ≥ 45 minutes decrease in daytime nap time was conducted in Study 1 : 29 % ( n = 12 ) of patients treated with tasimelteon , compared with 12 % ( n = 5 ) of patients treated with placebo met the responder criteria .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tasimelteon capsules are available as follows : 20 mg – Each size 1 hard gelatin capsule with light blue opaque cap and body imprinted with A44 on cap in black ink contains white to off - white color granular powder .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0480 - 4490 - 56 ) .
Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from exposure to light and moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients to limit their activities to preparing for going to bed after taking tasimelteon capsules because tasimelteon can potentially impair the performance of activities requiring complete mental alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Administration Information for tasimelteon capsules [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
• Advise patients to take tasimelteon without food .
• Advise patients to take tasimelteon before bedtime at the same time every night .
• Advise patients to skip the dose that night if they cannot take tasimelteon at approximately the same time on a given night .
• Advise patients to swallow tasimelteon capsules whole .
• Advise patients that because of individual differences in circadian rhythms , daily use for several weeks or months may be necessary before benefit from tasimelteon capsules is observed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured in India By : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 Iss .
5 / 2022 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0480 - 4490 - 56 Tasimelteon Capsules 20 mg Rx only 30 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
