Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Antimicrobial Uses • For hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria on the skin • Recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of these ingredients When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
In case of contact , flush eyes with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor If irritation or redness develops , or if condition persists for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years and over : apply to hands ; allow to dry without wiping .
• children under 2 years : ask a doctor before use .
Other information • store below 95 ° F ( 35 ° C ) .
• may discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Water , Decyl Glucoside , Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe ) Leaf Extract , Disodium EDTA , Citric Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Benzoate .
Principal Display Panel NDC 73725 - 013 - 60 Nature ' s Baby alcohol - free hand sanitizing wipes fragrance free 97 . 5 % puriﬁed water • softer & more absorbent biodegradable • decomposable no chlorine phthalates , parabens , or sulfates moisturizing and hypo - allergenic kills 99 . 9 % of most common harmful germs & bacteria Individually - wrapped packaging makes it convenient and easy to carry in purse , during travels and elsewhere outside of your home .
Our wipes are formulated to be gentle on skin and do not contain fragrance , dye , triclosan , parabens or phthalates The 60 - count individual wraps fit anywhere , making it convenient to take with you throughout the day while you are on - the - go .
Distributed by Nature ' s Organics , LLC 1560 - 1 Newbury Rd . , # 284 Newbury Park , CA 91320 www . naturesbaby . com Follow us @ twitter . com / ntrsbabyorganic Like us @ facebook . com Made in USa 60 Individually Packaged Wipes • 8 in x 6 in ( 20 . 32 cm x 15 . 24 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
