Per your order , we have compounded ACD Solution Modified as a solution of 10 mL in a 100 mL vial .
The characteristics of this compounded preparation are as follows DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL vial contains 80 mg citric acid , 224 mg sodium citrate anhydrous , and 120 mg dextrose anhydrous in a sterile , non - pyrogenic solution of 10 mL .
The pH of the solution has been adjusted to be between 4 . 5 to 5 . 5 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In vitro , citrate ions combine with ionic calcium in the blood and the resulting lack of ionic calcium prevents coagulation .
Blood that has been treated with citrate anticoagulants is nontoxic to the body when injected in small amounts intravenously .
After injection , citrate ions are rapidly removed from the blood by the liver , polymerized into glucose , and then metabolized in the usual manner INDICATIONS AND USAGE ACD solution modified is to be used in the labeling of red blood cells for intravenous administration with Cr - 51 Sodium Chromate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known contraindications .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Red Blood Cell Labeling Procedure • Labeling may be performed without washing or centrifugation steps directly in the reaction vial .
• A 30 to 50 mL sample of whole blood is withdrawn from the patient and added aseptically to a vial of ACD Solution Modified .
• 50 to 150 microcuries of Sodium Chromate 51 is then injected into the reaction vial using a shielded syringe .
The amount of radioactivity added to the vial willdepend on the intended use of the labeled red blood cells .
• The suspension is incubated for 30 to 60 minutes at room temperature with frequent , gentle agitation .
• After incubation , 100 mg Ascorbic Acid Injection is injected into the vial .
The ascorbic acid reduces any remaining unbound dianionic chromium 51 to the anionic state which does not penetrate red blood cells ; thus in vivo labeling of red blood cells is prevented .
Storage and Handling Store the product at room temperature PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
