FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE ONLY Rx Only DESCRIPTION Human chorionic gonadotropin ( HCG ) , a polypeptide hormone produced by the human placenta , is composed of an alpha and a beta subunit .
The alpha subunit is essentially identical to the alpha subunits of the human pituitary gonadotropins , luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , as well as to the alpha subunit of human thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) .
The beta subunits of these hormones differ in amino acid sequence .
Chorionic Gonadotropin is a water soluble glycoprotein derived from human pregnancy urine .
The sterile lyophilized powder is stable .
When reconstituted with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection preserved with benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % , the solution should be refrigerated and used within 30 days .
Each 5 , 000 USP units vial contains : Chorionic Gonadotropin 5 , 000 USP Units , Mannitol 100 mg , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate 16 mg , and Monobasic Sodium Phosphate 4 mg .
Each 10 , 000 USP units vial contains : Chorionic Gonadotropin 10 , 000 USP Units , Mannitol 100 mg , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate 16 mg , and Monobasic Sodium Phosphate 4 mg .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The action of HCG is virtually identical to that of pituitary LH , although HCG appears to have a small degree of FSH activity as well .
It stimulates production of gonadal steroid hormones by stimulating the interstitial cells ( Leydig cells ) of the testis to produce androgens and the corpus luteum of the ovary to produce progesterone .
Androgen stimulation in the male leads to the development of secondary sex characteristics and may stimulate testicular descent when no anatomical impediment to descent is present .
This descent is usually reversible when HCG is discontinued .
During the normal menstrual cycle , LH participates with FSH in the development and maturation of the normal ovarian follicle , and the mid - cycle LH surge triggers ovulation .
HCG can substitute for LH in this function .
During a normal pregnancy , HCG secreted by the placenta maintains the corpus luteum after LH secretion decreases , supporting continued secretion of estrogen and progesterone , and preventing menstruation .
HCG HAS NO KNOWN EFFECT ON FAT MOBILIZATION , APPETITE OR SENSE OF HUNGER , OR BODY FAT DISTRIBUTION .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HCG HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED TO BE EFFECTIVE ADJUNCTIVE THERAPY IN THE TREATMENT OF OBESITY .
THERE IS NO SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT IT INCREASES WEIGHT LOSS BEYOND THAT RESULTING FROM CALORIC RESTRICTION , THAT IT CAUSES A MORE ATTRACTIVE OR " NORMAL " DISTRIBUTION OF FAT , OR THAT IT DECREASES THE HUNGER AND DISCOMFORT ASSOCIATED WITH CALORIE - RESTRICTED DIETS .
• Prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomic obstruction .
In general , HCG is thought to induce testicular descent in situations when descent would have occurred at puberty .
HCG thus may help to predict whether or not orchiopexy will be needed in the future .
Although , in some cases , descent following HCG administration is permanent , in most cases the response is temporary .
Therapy is usually instituted between the ages of 4 and 9 .
• Selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( hypogonadism secondary to a pituitary deficiency ) in males .
• Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure , and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Precocious puberty , prostatic carcinoma or other androgen - dependent neoplasm , prior allergic reaction to HCG .
HCG may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Combined HCG / PMS ( pregnant mare ' s serum ) therapy has been noted to induce high incidences of external congenital anomalies in the offspring of mice , in a dose - dependent manner .
The potential extrapolation to humans has not been determined .
WARNINGS HCG should be used in conjunction with human menopausal gonadotropins only by physicians experienced with infertility problems who are familiar with the criteria for patient selection , contraindications , warnings , precautions , and adverse reactions described in the package insert for menotropins .
The principal serious adverse reactions during this use are : ( 1 ) Ovarian hyperstimulation , a syndrome of sudden ovarian enlargement , ascites with or without pain , and / or pleural effusion ; ( 2 ) Enlargement of preexisting ovarian cysts or rupture of ovarian cysts with resultant hemoperitoneum ; ( 3 ) Multiple births , and ( 4 ) Arterial thromboembolism .
The recommended diluent for reconstitution is Bacteriostatic Water for Injection preserved with benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % .
Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
Anaphylaxis has been reported with urinary - derived HCG products .
PRECAUTIONS General • Induction of androgen secretion by HCG may induce precocious puberty in patients treated for cryptorchidism .
Therapy should be discontinued if signs of precocious puberty occur .
• Since androgens may cause fluid retention , HCG should be used with caution in patients with cardiac or renal disease , epilepsy , migraine , or asthma .
Drug / Laboratory test HCG can crossreact in the radioimmunoassay of gonadotropins , especially luteinizing hormone .
Each individual laboratory should establish the degree of crossreactivity with their gonadotropin assay .
Physicians should make the laboratory aware of patients on HCG if gonadotropin levels are requested .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There have been sporadic reports of testicular tumors in otherwise healthy young men receiving HCG for secondary infertility .
A causative relationship between HCG and tumor development in these men has not been established .
Defects of forelimbs and of the central nervous system , as well as alterations in sex ratio , have been reported in mice on combined gonadotropin and HCG regimens .
The dose of gonadotropin used was intended to induce superovulation .
No mutagenic effect has been clearly established in humans .
Fertility — see " INDICATIONS AND USAGE . "
Pregnancy See " CONTRAINDICATIONS " section .
Combined HCG / PMS ( pregnant mare ' s serum ) therapy has been noted to induce high incidences of external congenital anomalies in the offspring of mice , in a dose - dependent manner .
The potential extrapolation to humans has not been determined .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when HCG is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 4 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ( see WARNINGS ) Headache , irritability , restlessness , depression , fatigue , edema , precocious puberty , gynecomastia , pain at the site of injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions both localized and systemic in nature , including erythema , urticaria , rash , angioedema , dyspnea and shortness of breath , have been reported .
The relationship of these allergic - like events to the polypeptide hormone or the diluent containing benzyl alcohol is not clear .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( Intramuscular Use Only ) : The dosage regimen employed in any particular case will depend upon the indication for use , the age and weight of the patient , and the physician ' s preference .
The following regimens have been advocated by various authorities .
Prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomical obstruction : • ( 1 ) 4 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for three weeks .
• ( 2 ) 5 , 000 USP Units every second day for four injections .
• ( 3 ) 15 injections of 500 to 1 , 000 USP Units over a period of six weeks .
• ( 4 ) 500 USP Units three times weekly for four to six weeks .
If this course of treatment is not successful , another is begun one month later , giving 1 , 000 USP Units per injection .
Selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in males : • ( 1 ) 500 to 1 , 000 USP Units three times a week for three weeks , followed by the same dose twice a week for three weeks .
• ( 2 ) 4 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for six to nine months , following which the dosage may be reduced to 2 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for an additional three months .
Table 1 .
Final Concentration after ReconstitutionReconstitution volume 10 , 000 IU Vial Concentration 5 , 000 IU Vial Concentration Administration 1 mL 10 , 000 IU / mL 5 , 000 IU / mL Administer entire dose at once 10 mL 1 , 000 IU / mL 500 IU / mL Multiple dose administration , refrigerate between doses Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins ( See prescribing information for menotropins for dosage and administration for that drug product ) .
5 , 000 to 10 , 000 USP Units one day following the last dose of menotropins .
( A dosage of 10 , 000 USP Units is recommended in the labeling for menotropins ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Disposing of Needles and Syringes To safely dispose of medical sharps , place used needles and syringes in a closeable , puncture - resistant container , such as a red biohazard sharps container .
Sharps containers should then be taken to a collection center for proper disposal .
Ask your physician or pharmacist or reference our website for more information about safely disposing used sharps .
In some states , it is illegal to throw away medical sharps in household garbage , recycling , and compost bins .
Needles and other sharps must be placed in an approved sharps container and disposed of at an approved drop - off site .
HOW SUPPLIED Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP , is available as individually packaged vials containing 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 USP Units per vial .
Each vial of Novarel ® is accompanied by a vial of sterile diluent containing 10 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP containing 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol .
Novarel ® is available in the following presentations : • NDC 55566 - 1501 - 1 : 10 , 000 USP units of Chorionic Gonadotropin injection in 1 vial with blue cap and 1 vial of diluent • NDC 55566 - 1502 - 1 : 5 , 000 USP units of Chorionic Gonadotropin injection in 1 vial with aqua cap and 1 vial of diluent Store dry product at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFRIGERATE RECONSTITUTED PRODUCT AT 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) AND USE WITHIN 30 DAYS .
Manufactured for : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 8109000036 Rev . 05 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 10 , 000 USP NDC 55566 - 1501 - 1 Novarel ® ( Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP ) Rx only FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE ONLY 10 , 000 USP units 1 vial of Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP 1 vial of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP , 10 mL FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 5 , 000 USP NDC 55566 - 1502 - 1 Novarel ® ( Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP ) Rx only FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE ONLY 5 , 000 USP units 1 vial of Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP 1 vial of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP , 10 mL FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
