WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose .
Metoclopramide therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia .
There is no known treatment for tardive dyskinesia .
In some patients , symptoms may lessen or resolve after metoclopramide treatment is stopped .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia .
( 5 . 1 ) Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose .
Metoclopramide therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia .
There is no known treatment for tardive dyskinesia .
In some patients , symptoms may lessen or resolve after metoclopramide treatment is stopped .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets are a dopamine receptor antagonist indicated for : • Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux : short - term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) therapy for adults with symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy ( 1 . 1 ) • Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) : the relief of symptoms in adults associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) ( 1 . 2 ) Important Limitations : • Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration ( 1 . 3 ) • Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are recommended only for adults .
The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are indicated as short - term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) therapy for adults with symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
1 . 2 Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) in adults .
1 . 3 Important Limitations Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are indicated for adults only .
Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration .
The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Gastroesophageal Refulx Disease : 10 mg to 15 mg dose up to four times daily at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime ( 2 . 2 ) • Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) : 10 mg dose four times daily at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime for two to eight weeks ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Instructions for Use Take on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before eating since food can decrease the peak concentrations of drug in the bloodstream and / or the time it takes to achieve the maximum drug level in the bloodstream [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Do not repeat dose if inadvertently taken with food .
Since the tablet absorbs moisture rapidly , only remove each dose from the packaging just prior to taking .
Handle the tablet with dry hands and place on the tongue .
If the tablet should break or crumble while handling , discard and remove a new tablet .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablet disintegrates on the tongue in approximately one minute ( with a range of 10 seconds to 14 minutes ) .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablet is designed to be taken without liquid ; however , the effect on the pharmacokinetics of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets taken with liquid is unknown .
2 . 2 Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease For the relief of symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) , therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration .
Take 10 mg to 15 mg dose of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets up to four times daily ( e . g . , at least 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) .
Doses may vary depending upon the symptoms being treated and the clinical response .
If symptoms only occur intermittently or at specific times of the day , metoclopramide may be used in single doses up to 20 mg prior to the symptoms rather than continuous treatment .
Since there is a poor correlation between symptomatic relief and healing of esophageal lesions , any therapy directed at esophageal lesions is best confirmed by endoscopic evaluation .
Although experience with the effects of metoclopramide on esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited , healing was documented in a controlled trial using four times daily therapy at 15 mg / dose .
Prolonged treatment ( > 12 weeks ) with metoclopramide should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to counterbalance the risks to the patient of developing tardive dyskinesia .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 2 . 3 Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) For the relief of symptoms associated with diabetic gastroparesis ( diabetic gastric stasis ) , therapy of two to eight weeks is recommended .
Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration .
Take a 10 mg dose of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets up to four times a day ( e . g . , at least 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) .
The initial route of administration should be determined by the severity of the presenting symptoms .
If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present , oral administration of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets may be initiated .
However , if severe symptoms are present , therapy should begin with metoclopramide injection .
Administration of metoclopramide injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside , at which time oral administration may be instituted .
Since diabetic gastric stasis is frequently recurrent , Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets therapy should be reinstituted at the earliest manifestation .
2 . 4 Renal Impairment Some patients , such as the elderly or those with impaired kidney function ( creatinine clearance below 40 mL / min ) may be more sensitive to the therapeutic dose or the adverse effects of metoclopramide .
Therefore , these patients should start therapy at a lower dose ( approximately half the recommended dosage ) and the dose should be titrated according to their overall clinical response and / or adverse event profile .
Dialysis is not likely to be an effective method of drug removal in overdose situations .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Orally Disintegrating Tablets : 5 mg and 10 mg ( 3 ) 5 mg Tablets : Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet , debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 581 " on the other side .
10 mg Tablets : Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet , debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 580 " on the other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Intestinal Obstruction , Hemorrhage , or Perforation ( 4 . 1 ) • Pheochromocytoma ( 4 . 2 ) • Known Sensitivity or Intolerance ( 4 . 3 ) • Epilepsy ( 4 . 4 ) • Concomitant Medications with Extrapyramidal Reactions ( 4 . 5 ) 4 . 1 Intestinal Obstruction , Hemorrhage , or Perforation Do not use metoclopramide whenever stimulation of gastrointestinal motility may be dangerous such as in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage , mechanical obstruction , or perforation .
4 . 2 Pheochromocytoma Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because the drug may precipitate a hypertensive crisis , most likely due to release of catecholamines from the tumor .
Such hypertensive crises may be controlled by phentolamine .
4 . 3 Known Sensitivity or Intolerance Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity or intolerance to the drug .
4 . 4 Epilepsy Do not use metoclopramide in patients with epilepsy since the frequency and severity of seizures may be increased .
4 . 5 Concomitant Medications with Extrapyramidal Reactions Do not use metoclopramide in patients receiving other drugs which are likely to cause extrapyramidal reactions , since the frequency and severity of extrapyramidal reactions may be increased [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tardive Dyskinesia ( 5 . 1 ) • Acute Dystonic Reactions , Drug - induced Parkinsonism and Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms ( 5 . 2 ) • Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( 5 . 3 ) • Depression ( 5 . 4 ) • Hypertension ( 5 . 5 ) • Congestive Heart Failure and Ventricular Arrhythmia ( 5 . 6 ) • Withdrawal from Metoclopramide ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Tardive Dyskinesia [ see Boxed Warning ] Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face , tongue , or extremities .
The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose .
An analysis of utilization patterns showed that about 20 % of patients who used metoclopramide took it for longer than 12 weeks .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than the recommended 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing TD .
Although the risk of developing TD in the general population may be increased among the elderly , women , and diabetics , it is not possible to predict which patients will develop metoclopramide - induced TD .
Both the risk of developing TD and the likelihood that TD will become irreversible increase with duration of treatment and total cumulative dose .
Metoclopramide should be discontinued in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD .
There is no known effective treatment for established cases of TD , although in some patients , TD may remit , partially or completely , within several weeks to months after metoclopramide is withdrawn .
Metoclopramide itself may suppress , or partially suppress , the signs of TD , thereby masking the underlying disease process .
The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long - term course of TD is unknown .
Therefore , metoclopramide should not be used for the symptomatic control of TD .
5 . 2 Acute Dystonic Reactions , Drug - induced Parkinsonism , and Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms Extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , manifested primarily as acute dystonic reactions , occur in approximately 1 in 500 patients treated with the usual adult dosages of 30 to 40 mg / day of metoclopramide .
These usually are seen during the first 24 to 48 hours of treatment with metoclopramide , occur more frequently in pediatric patients and adult patients less than 30 years of age and are even more frequent at higher doses .
These symptoms may include involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus .
Rarely , dystonic reactions may present as stridor and dyspnea , possibly due to laryngospasm .
If these symptoms occur , inject 50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride intramuscularly .
Benztropine mesylate , 1 to 2 mg intramuscularly , may also be used to reverse these reactions .
Drug - induced Parkinsonism can occur during metoclopramide therapy , more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment , but also after longer periods .
Parkinsonian symptoms generally subside within 2 to 3 months following discontinuation of metoclopramide .
Patients with a history of Parkinson ' s disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously , if at all , since such patients can experience exacerbation of Parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide .
5 . 3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome There have been rare reports of an uncommon but potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) associated with metoclopramide .
Clinical manifestations of NMS include hyperthermia , muscle rigidity , altered consciousness , and evidence of autonomic instability ( irregular pulse or blood pressure , tachycardia , diaphoresis and cardiac arrhythmias ) .
The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated .
In arriving at a diagnosis , it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness ( e . g . , pneumonia , systemic infection ) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms ( EPS ) .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , malignant hyperthermia , drug fever and primary central nervous system ( CNS ) pathology .
The management of NMS should include immediate discontinuation of metoclopramide and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy ; intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring ; and , treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
Bromocriptine and dantrolene sodium have been used in treatment of NMS , but their effectiveness has not been established [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 4 Depression Depression associated with metoclopramide use has occurred in patients with and without a history of depression .
Symptoms ranged from mild to severe and included suicidal ideation and suicide .
For those patients with a prior history of depression , metoclopramide should only be given if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
5 . 5 Hypertension In one study in hypertensive patients , intravenously administered metoclopramide was shown to release catecholamines ; hence , caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is used in patients with hypertension .
There are also clinical reports of hypertensive crises in some patients with undiagnosed pheochromocytoma , thus any rapid rise in blood pressure associated with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets use should result in immediate cessation of metoclopramide use in those patients [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Congestive Heart Failure and Ventricular Arrhythmia Since metoclopramide produces a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , patients with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure may be at risk of developing fluid retention and volume overload .
If these side effects occur at any time in any patients during metoclopramide therapy , the drug should be discontinued .
5 . 7 Withdrawal from Metoclopramide Adverse reactions , especially those involving the nervous system , may occur after stopping the use of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
A small number of patients may experience withdrawal symptoms after stopping that could include dizziness , nervousness , and / or headaches .
Phenylketonurics : Phenylalanine is a component of aspartame .
Each 5 mg and 10 mg Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets contains 4 . 7 mg of phenylalanine .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) are headache , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , and somnolence ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novel Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
A total of 86 subjects entered three studies with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ; 12 subjects entered a pilot bioavailability study ( BA ) ; 44 subjects entered a bioequivalence ( BE ) study , and 30 subjects entered a food - effect study .
The adverse reactions from the BE and food - effect study are summarized in Table 1 .
The pilot BA study data are not included because it was performed with a formulation different from the Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets formulation .
The adverse experience profile seen with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets was similar to metoclopramide tablets .
Thirty - three ( 33 ) adverse reactions were reported after receiving Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and 30 adverse reactions were reported after receiving metoclopramide tablets .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in BE and Food - Effect Study in ≥ 2 % of Subjects Adverse Reaction Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating TabletsN1 , 3 ( % ) 2 Metoclopramide tabletsN1 , 4 ( % ) 2 Nausea 4 ( 4 . 2 % ) 4 ( 5 . 6 % ) Vomiting 2 ( 2 . 1 % ) 1 ( 1 . 4 % ) Fatigue 2 ( 2 . 1 % ) 2 ( 2 . 8 % ) Headache 5 ( 5 . 2 % ) 3 ( 4 . 2 % ) Somnolence 2 ( 2 . 1 % ) 2 ( 2 . 8 % ) Dizziness 1 ( 1 . 0 % ) 3 ( 4 . 2 % ) 1 N = number of subjects that reported adverse reactions 2 Percent ( % ) occurrence = N divided by number of subjects dosed with respective study drug 3 Number of subjects dosed with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets : 68 under fasted conditions and 28 under fed conditions .
4 Number of subjects dosed with metoclopramide tablets : 28 under fed conditions and 44 under fasted conditions .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( greater than 2 % ) associated with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets were : nausea , vomiting , fatigue , somnolence and headache .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( greater than 2 % ) associated with metoclopramide tablets were : nausea , headache , fatigue , somnolence , and dizziness .
The combined data from the fasted BE study and the food - effect study did not demonstrate any significant differences in the adverse event profile for Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets compared to metoclopramide tablets .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions are from the cumulative post - marketing experience with metoclopramide tablets .
Since the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
CNS Effects : Restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude occur in approximately 10 % of patients receiving the most commonly prescribed dosage of 10 mg four times a day .
Insomnia , headache , confusion , dizziness , or depression with suicidal ideation occurs less frequently .
The incidence of drowsiness is greater at higher doses .
There are isolated reports of seizures without clear - cut relationship to metoclopramide .
Rarely , hallucinations have been reported .
Extrapyramidal Syndromes ( EPS ) : Acute dystonic reactions , the most common type of EPS associated with metoclopramide , occur in approximately 0 . 2 % of patients ( 1 in 500 ) treated with 30 to 40 mg of metoclopramide per day .
Symptoms include involuntary movements of limbs , facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , opisthotonus ( tetanus - like reactions ) , and rarely , stridor and dyspnea possibly due to laryngospasm ; ordinarily these symptoms are readily reversed by diphenhydramine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Drug - induced Parkinsonian - like symptoms may include bradykinesia , tremor , cogwheel rigidity , mask - like facies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Tardive dyskinesia is most frequently characterized by involuntary movements of the tongue , face , mouth , or jaw , and sometimes by involuntary movements of the trunk and / or extremities ; movements may be choreoathetotic in appearance .
Motor restlessness ( akathisia ) may include inability to sit still , pacing , and foot tapping .
These symptoms may disappear spontaneously or respond to a reduction in dosage .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome : Rare occurrences of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Endocrine Disturbances : Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia .
Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , hypertension , supraventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , fluid retention , acute congestive heart failure , possible AV block .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , bowel disturbances , primarily diarrhea .
Hepatic : Rarely , cases of hepatotoxicity characterized by such findings as jaundice and altered liver function tests , when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential .
Renal : Urinary frequency and incontinence .
Hematologic : A few cases of neutropenia , leukopenia , or agranulocytosis , generally without clear - cut relationship to metoclopramide .
Methemoglobinemia in adults and especially with overdosage in neonates .
Sulfhemoglobinemia in adults .
Allergic Reactions : A few cases of rash , urticaria , or bronchospasm , especially in patients with a history of asthma .
Rarely , angioneurotic edema , including glossal or laryngeal edema .
Miscellaneous : Visual disturbances .
Porphyria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Anticholinergic drugs : Antagonize effects of metoclopramide ( 7 . 1 ) • Narcotic analgesic drugs : May increase sedation ( 7 . 1 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors : May cause hypertensive crisis ( due to catecholamine release ) ( 7 . 2 ) • Altered drug absorption : May decrease absorption of drugs from the stomach and increase absorption of drugs from the small bowel ( 7 . 3 ) • Insulin : Changes in food transit time may require adjustment of insulin dose or timing to avoid hypoglycemia ( 7 . 4 ) • Antidepressants , Antipsychotics , and Neuroleptics : Concomitant use with metoclopramide is associated with increased risk of tardive dyskinesia and Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( 7 . 5 ) The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility can impact the absorption of other drugs .
The known drug - drug interactions are listed below .
7 . 1 Anticholinergic and Narcotic Analgesic Drugs The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility are antagonized by anticholinergic drugs and narcotic analgesics .
Additive sedative effects can occur when metoclopramide is given with alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , narcotics , or tranquilizers .
7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Metoclopramide has been shown to release catecholamines in patients with essential hypertension suggesting that it should be used cautiously , if at all , in patients taking monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
7 . 3 Drug Absorption Absorption of drugs from the stomach may be diminished by metoclopramide ( e . g . , digoxin ) , whereas the rate and / or extent of absorption of drugs from the small bowel may be increased ( e . g . , acetaminophen , tetracycline , levodopa , ethanol , cyclosporine ) .
7 . 4 Insulin Because the action of metoclopramide will hasten the movement of food to the intestines and therefore the rate of absorption , insulin dosage or timing of dosage may require adjustment .
Increasing movement of food to the intestines may lead to absorption of less glucose from a meal , hence less glucose in the circulation for a particular dose of administered insulin to act upon , resulting in hypoglycemia .
7 . 5 Antidepressants , Antipsychotics , and Neuroleptics Concomitant use of metoclopramide should be avoided in patients taking antidepressants , antipsychotics , and / or neuroleptics that have been associated with extrapyramidal reactions such as tardive dyskinesia or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) that have occurred in association with metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established ( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric Use : Elderly patients may be more sensitive to adverse reactions such as sedation and drug - induced movement disorders .
( 8 . 5 ) • Impaired Renal Function : Initial dosing may need to be reduced and titrated ( 8 . 6 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at oral doses about 6 times the maximum recommended human dose calculated on the basis of surface area , and in rabbits at oral doses about 12 times the maximum recommended human dose calculated on the basis of surface area , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to metoclopramide .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The use of metoclopramide in labor and delivery has not been studied .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Metoclopramide is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is administered to a nursing mother .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from metoclopramide in nursing infants and because of the potential for tumorigenicity ( including tumor promoting potential in rats ) , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
The safety profile of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets in adults cannot be extrapolated to pediatric patients .
Dystonias and other extrapyramidal reactions associated with metoclopramide are more common in the pediatric population than in adults .
In addition , neonates have reduced levels of NADH - cytochrome b5 reductase making them more susceptible to methemoglobinemia , a possible side effect of metoclopramide use in neonates .
Pediatric PK The pharmacodynamics of metoclopramide following oral and intravenous administration in pediatric populations are highly variable and a concentration - effect relationship has not been established .
Thus , there are insufficient data to conclude whether the pharmacokinetics of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets in adults and the pediatric population are similar .
Although there are insufficient data to support the efficacy of metoclopramide in pediatric patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) or cancer chemotherapy - related nausea and vomiting , the pharmacokinetics of metoclopramide have been studied in these patient populations and are summarized as follows .
In an open - label study , six pediatric patients ( ranging in age from 3 . 5 weeks to 5 . 4 months ) with GERD received metoclopramide 0 . 15 mg / kg oral solution every 6 hours for 10 doses .
The mean peak plasma concentration of metoclopramide after the tenth dose was twice the level ( 56 . 8 mcg / L ) compared to after the first dose ( 29 mcg / L ) indicating drug accumulation with repeated dosing .
However , the PK parameters after the tenth dose were comparable to those observed after the first dose for the mean time to reach peak concentrations ( 2 . 2 hr ) ; half - life ( 4 . 1 hr ) ; clearance ( 0 . 67 L / h / kg ) ; and volume of distribution ( 4 . 4 L / kg ) .
The youngest patient ( 3 . 5 weeks ) showed a significantly longer half - life after the first dose ( 23 . 1 hr ) compared to after the tenth dose ( 10 . 3 hr ) , suggesting the reduced clearance observed at birth may be a reflection of the immature hepatic and renal systems .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoclopramide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
The risk of developing drug - induced Parkinsonism due to metoclopramide is dose - related .
Geriatric patients should receive the lowest dose that is effective .
If drug - induced Parkinsonism symptoms develop in a geriatric patient , Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets should be discontinued .
The elderly may be at greater risk for tardive dyskinesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Sedation is a potential adverse event associated with metoclopramide use in the elderly .
Metoclopramide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
For these reasons , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , starting at the low end of the dosing range , due to the greater frequency of decreased renal function , concomitant disease , or other drug therapy in the elderly .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 6 Other Special Populations Patients with NADH - cytochrome b5 reductase deficiency are at an increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia and / or sulfhemoglobinemia when metoclopramide is administered .
In patients with G6PD deficiency who experience metoclopramide - induced methemoglobinemia , methylene blue treatment is not recommended .
Since metoclopramide is excreted principally through the kidneys , therapy should be initiated at approximately one - half the recommended dose in those patients whose creatinine clearance is below 40 mL / min .
Depending upon clinical efficacy and safety considerations , the dosage may be increased or decreased as appropriate .
Metoclopramide has been safely used in patients with advanced liver disease whose renal function was normal .
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of overdosage may include drowsiness , disorientation , and extrapyramidal reactions .
Anticholinergic or anti - Parkinson drugs or antihistamines with anti - cholinergic properties may be helpful in controlling the extrapyramidal reactions .
Symptoms are self - limiting and may disappear within 24 hours .
Hemodialysis removes relatively little metoclopramide , probably because of the small amount of the drug in blood relative to tissues .
Similarly , continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis does not remove significant amounts of drug .
It is unlikely that dosage would need to be adjusted to compensate for losses through dialysis .
Dialysis is not likely to be an effective method of drug removal in overdose situations .
Unintentional overdose has been reported in infants and children with the use of metoclopramide oral solution .
While there was no consistent pattern to the reports associated with these overdoses , events included seizures , extrapyramidal reactions , and lethargy .
Methemoglobinemia has occurred in premature and full - term neonates who were given overdoses of metoclopramide ( 1 to 4 mg / kg / day orally , intramuscularly or intravenously for 1 to 3 or more days ) .
Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue .
However , methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , which may be fatal .
11 DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablet is an orally disintegrating tablet formulation of metoclopramide hydrochloride .
The 5 mg strength tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 581 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 5 mg metoclopramide ( as 5 . 91 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
The 10 mg tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 580 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 10 mg metoclopramide ( as 11 . 82 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
The active ingredient , metoclopramide hydrochloride , is a white crystalline , odorless substance , freely soluble in water .
Chemically , it is 4 amino - 5 - chloro - N - [ 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] - 2 - methoxy benzamide monohydrochloride monohydrate .
Its molecular formula is C14H22ClN3O2 • HCl • H2O .
Its molecular weight is 354 . 3 .
The structural formula is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets includes the following inactive ingredients : phosphoric acid , mannitol and starch , microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , amino methacrylate copolymer , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene , crospovidone , aspartame , N - C mint flavor , magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric , biliary , or pancreatic secretions .
While its mode of action is unclear , it appears to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine .
The effect on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation , but can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs .
Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric ( especially antral ) contractions , relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb , and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit .
It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter .
It has little , if any , effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder .
The antiemetic properties of metoclopramide appear to be a result of its antagonism of central and peripheral dopamine receptors .
Dopamine produces nausea and vomiting by stimulation of the medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) , and metoclopramide blocks stimulation of the CTZ by agents like l - dopa or apomorphine , which are known to increase dopamine levels or to possess dopamine - like effects .
Metoclopramide also abolishes the slowing of gastric emptying caused by apomorphine .
Like the phenothiazines and related drugs , which are also dopamine antagonists , metoclopramide produces sedation and may produce extrapyramidal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Metoclopramide inhibits the central and peripheral effects of apomorphine , induces release of prolactin , and causes a transient increase in circulating aldosterone levels , which may be associated with transient fluid retention .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of pharmacological action of metoclopramide is 30 to 60 minutes following an oral dose ; pharmacological effects persist for 1 to 2 hours .
In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low LESP ( lower esophageal sphincter pressure ) , single oral doses of metoclopramide produce dose - related increases in LESP .
Effects begin at about 5 mg and increase through 20 mg ( the largest dose tested ) .
The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasts about 45 minutes and that of a 20 mg dose lasts between 2 and 3 hours .
Increased rate of stomach emptying has been observed with single oral doses of 10 mg .
The principal effect of metoclopramide is on symptoms of post - prandial and daytime heartburn with less observed effect on nocturnal symptoms .
If symptoms are confined to particular situations , such as following the evening meal , use of metoclopramide as single doses prior to the provocative situation should be considered , rather than using the drug throughout the day .
Healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions has been endoscopically demonstrated at the end of a 12 - week trial using doses of 15 mg taken four times a day .
As there is no documented correlation between symptoms and healing of esophageal lesions , patients with documented lesions should be monitored endoscopically .
For gastroparesis , the usual manifestations of delayed gastric emptying ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , heartburn , persistent fullness after meals , and anorexia ) appear to respond within different time intervals .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Adult PK of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets In a randomized , two - arm , two - way crossover study in 44 healthy adult ( male and female ) fasted subjects , Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablet was bioequivalent to Reglan Tablets .
In a food - effect study with 28 subjects , Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets taken immediately after a high - fat meal had a 17 % lower peak blood level than when taken after an overnight fast .
The time to peak blood levels increased from about 1 . 75 hours under fasted conditions to 3 hours when taken immediately after a high - fat meal .
The extent of metoclopramide absorbed ( area under the curve ) was comparable whether Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets was administered with or without food .
The clinical effect of the decrease in peak plasma level if Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablet is inadvertently taken with food is unknown .
Adult PK of Metoclopramide Metoclopramide is rapidly and well absorbed .
Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg , the absolute oral bioavailability of metoclopramide is 80 % ± 15 . 5 % as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects .
Peak plasma concentrations occur at about 1 to 2 hr after a single oral dose .
Similar time to peak is observed after individual doses at steady state .
A single dose study of 12 subjects showed that the area under the drug concentration - time curve increases linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg ( results summarized in Table 2 ) .
Peak concentrations increase linearly with dose ; time to peak concentrations remains the same ; whole body clearance is unchanged ; and the elimination rate remains the same .
The average elimination half - life in individuals with normal renal function is 5 to 6 hr .
Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide .
Table 2 : Adult Pharmacokinetic Data Parameter Value Vd ( L / kg ) ~ 3 . 5 Plasma Protein Binding ~ 30 % T ½ 5 to 6 hours Oral Bioavailability 80 % ± 15 . 5 % Approximately 85 % of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appears in the urine within 72 hr .
Of the 85 % eliminated in the urine , about half is present as free or conjugated metoclopramide .
The drug is not extensively bound to plasma proteins ( about 30 % ) .
The whole body volume of distribution is high ( about 3 . 5 L / kg ) which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues .
The in vivo disintegration time ( time reported between placing the tablet on the tongue and it completely disintegrated into fine particles ) was approximately one minute ( with a range of 10 seconds to 14 minutes ) .
In the two clinical trials ( N = 96 ) with a mean ± SD being 76 . 8 ± 110 . 6 seconds and a median of 53 . 5 seconds .
Renal impairment affects the clearance of metoclopramide .
In a study with patients with varying degrees of renal impairment , a reduction in creatinine clearance was correlated with a reduction in plasma clearance , renal clearance , non - renal clearance , and increase in elimination half - life .
The kinetics of metoclopramide in the presence of renal impairment remained linear .
The reduction in clearance as a result of renal impairment suggests that reduction of maintenance dosage should be done to avoid drug accumulation .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 77 - week study was conducted in rats with oral doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( about 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on surface area basis ) .
Metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration .
Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one - third of human breast cancers are prolactin - dependent in vitro , a factor of potential importance if the prescription of metoclopramide is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer .
Although disturbances such as galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence have been reported with prolactin - elevating drugs , the clinical significance of elevated serum prolactin levels is unknown for most patients .
An increase in mammary neoplasms has been found in rodents after chronic administration of prolactin - stimulating neuroleptic drugs and metoclopramide .
Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date , however , have shown an association between chronic administration of these drugs and mammary tumorigenesis ; the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive at this time .
In a rat model for assessing the tumor promotion potential , a two - week oral treatment with metoclopramide at a dose of 260 mg / kg / day ( about 35 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) enhanced the tumorigenic effect of N - nitrosodiethylamine .
Metoclopramide was positive in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell / HGPRT forward mutation assay for mutagenic effects and the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay for clastogenic effects .
It was negative in the in vitro Ames mutation assay , the in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) assay with rat and human hepatocytes and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Metoclopramide at intramuscular doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( about 3 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 5 mg strength are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 581 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 5 mg metoclopramide ( as 5 . 91 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
These are packaged in blister cards as follows : Box of 10 ( 1x10 ) NDC 40032 - 581 - 31 Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 10 mg are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 580 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 10 mg metoclopramide ( as 11 . 82 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
These are packaged in blister cards as follows : Box of 10 ( 1x10 ) NDC 40032 - 580 - 31 Tablets should be stored at controlled room temperature , between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Instruct patients to take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime .
• A patient Medication Guide is available for Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and printed at the end of the prescribing information .
Instruct patients , families , and caregivers to read the Medication Guide and assist them in understanding its contents .
• Inform patients or their caregivers of serious potential issues associated with metoclopramide use such as tardive dyskinesia , extrapyramidal symptoms , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome .
Advise patients to inform their physician if symptoms associated with these disorders occur during or after treatment with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• Inform patients that Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets may cause drowsiness , dizziness , or otherwise impair mental alertness or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Sedation may be more pronounced in the elderly .
• Inform patients that the most common adverse reactions in patients treated with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets or other metoclopramide - containing products are headache , nausea , vomiting , tiredness , sleepiness , dizziness , and restlessness .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc Somerset , NJ 08873 USA PI5800000102 Rev . 05 / 2017 SPL MEDGUIDE Medication Guide Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets Phenylketonurics : Phenylalanine is a component of aspartame .
Each 5 mg and 10 mg Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets contains 4 . 7 mg of phenylalanine .
Read the Medication Guide that comes with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets before you take it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
If you take another product that contains metoclopramide ( such as REGLAN tablets , REGLAN ODT , REGLAN injection or metoclopramide oral solution ) , you should read the Medication Guide that comes with that product .
Some of the information may be different .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious side effects , including : Tardive Dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) These movements happen mostly in the face muscles .
You cannot control these movements .
They may not go away even after stopping Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
There is no treatment for tardive dyskinesia , but symptoms may lessen or go away over time after you stop taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Your chances for getting tardive dyskinesia go up : • the longer you take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and the more Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets you take .
You should not take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• if you are older , especially if you are an older woman • if you have diabetes It is not possible for your doctor to know if you will get tardive dyskinesia if you take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Call your doctor right away if you have movements you can not stop or control , such as : • lip smacking , chewing , or puckering of your lips • frowning or scowling • sticking out your tongue • blinking and moving your eyes • shaking of your arms and legs See the section " What are the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets is a prescription medicine used in adults : • for 4 to 12 weeks to relieve heartburn symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) when certain other treatments do not work .
• to relieve the symptoms of slow stomach emptying in people with diabetes .
It is not known if Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets is safe or works in children .
Who should not take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Do not take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets if you : • have stomach or intestine problems that could get worse with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets , such as bleeding , blockage or a tear in your stomach or bowel wall • have an adrenal tumor called pheochromocytoma • are allergic to metoclopramide or any of the ingredients in Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of ingredients in Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• take medicines that can cause uncontrolled movements , such as medicines for mental illness .
• have seizures What should I tell my doctor before taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Before you take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have kidney or liver disease • have depression or mental illness • have high blood pressure • have heart failure or heart rhythm problems • have diabetes .
Your dose of insulin may need to be changed .
• have Parkinson ' s disease • have any other medical conditions • drink alcohol • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets can pass into your milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and some medicines can affect each other and may not work as well , or cause possible side effects .
Do not start any new medicine while taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets until you talk with your doctor .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • another medicine that contains metoclopramide , such as REGLAN tablets , REGLAN ODT , or metoclopramide oral syrup • a blood pressure medicine • a medicine for depression , especially a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) • an anti - psychotic medicine • insulin • medicines that can make you sleepy , such as anti - anxiety medicines , sleep medicines , and narcotics .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medication is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get new medicine .
How should I take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets comes as a tablet that melts in your mouth .
• Take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you to .
• You should not take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• Take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime .
To take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets : • Leave the tablet in the sealed blister Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets pack until you are ready to take it .
• Use dry hands to open a blister and take out a tablet .
If the tablet breaks or crumbles throw it away and take a new tablet out of the blister pack .
• Put the tablet on your tongue right away .
Let it melt and then swallow .
You do not need water to take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
If you take too much Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets , call your doctor or Poison Control Center .
What should I avoid while taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Do not drink alcohol while taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Alcohol may make some side effects of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets worse , such as feeling sleepy .
• Do not drive , work with machines , or do dangerous tasks until you know how Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets affects you .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets may cause sleepiness .
What are the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • Tardivedyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) See " What is the most important information I should know about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ? "
• Uncontrolled spasms of your face and neck muscles , or muscles of your body , arms , and legs ( dystonia ) .
These muscle spasms can cause abnormal movements and body positions .
These spasms usually start within the first 2 days of treatment .
These spasms happen more often in children and adults younger than 30 .
• Depression , thoughts about suicide , and suicide .
Some people who take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets may become depressed .
You may have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself .
Some people who have taken metoclopramide products have ended their own lives ( suicide ) .
• Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS is a rare but very serious condition that can happen with Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
NMS can cause death and must be treated in a hospital .
Symptoms of NMS include : high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating .
• Parkinsonism .
Symptoms include slight shaking , body stiffness , trouble moving or keeping your balance .
If you have Parkinson ' s Disease , your symptoms may become worse while you are taking Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• High blood pressure .
Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause your blood pressure to increase .
• Too much body water .
People who have certain liver problems or heart failure and take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets may hold too much water in their body ( fluid retention ) .
Tell your doctor right away if you have sudden weight gain , or swelling of your hands , legs , or feet .
Call your doctor and get medical help right away if you : • feel depressed or have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself • have high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating • have muscle movements you cannot stop or control • have muscle movements that are new or unusual The most common side effects of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets are : • headache • nausea • vomiting • tiredness • sleepiness You may have more side effects the longer you take Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and the more Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets you take .
You may still have side effects after you stop Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
You may have symptoms from stopping ( withdrawal ) Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets such as headaches , and feeling dizzy or nervous .
Tell your doctor about any side effects that bother you or do not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 – 800 – FDA - 1088 .
How do I store Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Store Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets away from moisture .
• Throw away any Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets that is not used .
Keep Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets and all medicines away from children .
General information about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
If you would like more information about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Active ingredients : metoclopramide hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : phosphoric acid , mannitol and starch , microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , amino methacrylate copolymer , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene , crospovidone , aspartame , N - C mint flavor , magnesium stearate .
Novel Laboratories , Inc Somerset , NJ 08873 USA PI5800000102 Rev 05 / 2017 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 40032 - 580 - 30 Blister Pack Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 10 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 40032 - 580 - 31 Carton Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 10 mg Front Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back Panel : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 40032 - 581 - 30 Blister Pack Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 40032 - 581 - 31 Carton Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets 5 mg Front Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
