Rx Only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) is an oral antibacterial combination consisting of the semisynthetic antibiotic amoxicillin and the β - lactamase inhibitor , clavulanate potassium ( the potassium salt of clavulanic acid ) .
Amoxicillin is an analog of ampicillin , derived from the basic penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
The amoxicillin molecular formula is C 16H19N3O5S • 3H2O , and the molecular weight is 419 . 46 .
Chemically , amoxicillin is ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - ( - ) - 2 - Amino - 2 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid trihydrate and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clavulanic acid is produced by the fermentation of Streptomyces clavuligerus .
It is a β - lactam structurally related to the penicillins and possesses the ability to inactivate a wide variety of β - lactamases by blocking the active sites of these enzymes .
Clavulanic acid is particularly active against the clinically important plasmid - mediated β - lactamases frequently responsible for transferred drug resistance to penicillins and cephalosporins .
The clavulanate potassium molecular formula is C8H8KNO5 , and the molecular weight is 237 . 25 .
Chemically , clavulanate potassium is potassium ( Z ) - ( 2 R , 5 R ) - 3 - ( 2 - hydroxyethylidene ) - 7 - oxo - 4 - oxa - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] - heptane - 2 - carboxylate and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Powder for Oral Suspension : Each 5 mL of reconstituted amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg / 5 mL contains 0 . 14 mEq potassium .
Each 5 mL of reconstituted amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 400 mg / 5 mL contains 0 . 29 mEq of potassium .
Inactive Ingredients : Aspartame • , colloidal silicon dioxide , flavor strawberry , flavor strawberry guarana , monosodium citrate , silicon dioxide , sodium citrate ( as dihydrate ) , xanthan gum .
Chewable Tablets : Each 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg chewable tablet contains 0 . 15 mEq potassium .
Each 400 mg chewable tablet contains 0 . 30 mEq of potassium .
Inactive Ingredients : Aspartame • , FD & C red No . 40 aluminum lake , glycine , povidone , magnesium stearate , mannitol , mint cream flavor , orange cream flavor , silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate , tropical blend flavor .
• See PRECAUTIONS – Information for the Patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium are well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
Dosing in the fasted or fed state has minimal effect on the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin .
While amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium can be given without regard to meals , absorption of clavulanate potassium when taken with food is greater relative to the fasted state .
In 1 study , the relative bioavailability of clavulanate was reduced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium was dosed at 30 and 150 minutes after the start of a high - fat breakfast .
The safety and efficacy of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium have been established in clinical trials where amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium was taken without regard to meals .
Oral administration of single doses of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg / 5 mL and 400 mg / 5 mL , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg and 400 mg / 57 mg ) to 28 adult volunteers yielded comparable pharmacokinetic data : Dose * AUC0 - ∞ ( mcg . hr / mL ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) † ( amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ) amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) clavulanate potassium ( ± S . D . ) amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) clavulanate potassium ( ± S . D . ) 400 mg / 57 mg ( 5 mL of suspension ) 17 . 29 ± 2 . 28 2 . 34 ± 0 . 94 6 . 94 ± 1 . 24 1 . 10 ± 0 . 42 400 mg / 57 mg ( one chewable tablet ) 17 . 24 ± 2 . 64 2 . 17 ± 0 . 73 6 . 67 ± 1 . 37 1 . 03 ± 0 . 33 * Administered at the start of a light meal .
† Mean values of 28 normal volunteers .
Peak concentrations occurred approximately 1 hour after the dose .
Oral administration of 5 mL of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg / 5 mL suspension or the equivalent dose of 10 mL amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg / 5 mL suspension provides average peak serum concentrations approximately 1 hour after dosing of 6 . 9 mcg / mL for amoxicillin and 1 . 6 mcg / mL for clavulanic acid .
The areas under the serum concentration curves obtained during the first 4 hours after dosing were 12 . 6 mcg . hr / mL for amoxicillin and 2 . 9 mcg . hr / mL for clavulanic acid when 5 mL of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg / 5 mL suspension or equivalent dose of 10 mL of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg / 5 mL suspension was administered to adult volunteers .
One amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg chewable tablet or two amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium125 mg chewable tablets are equivalent to 5 mL of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg / 5 mL suspension and provide similar serum levels of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid .
Amoxicillin serum concentrations achieved with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium are similar to those produced by the oral administration of equivalent doses of amoxicillin alone .
The half - life of amoxicillin after the oral administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is 1 . 3 hours and that of clavulanic acid is 1 hour .
Time above the minimum inhibitory concentration of 1 mcg / mL for amoxicillin has been shown to be similar after corresponding q12h and q8h dosing regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in adults and children .
Approximately 50 % to 70 % of the amoxicillin and approximately 25 % to 40 % of the clavulanic acid are excreted unchanged in urine during the first 6 hours after administration of 10 mL of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg / 5 mL suspension .
Concurrent administration of probenecid delays amoxicillin excretion but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid .
Neither component in amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is highly protein - bound ; clavulanic acid has been found to be approximately 25 % bound to human serum and amoxicillin approximately 18 % bound .
Amoxicillin diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids with the exception of the brain and spinal fluid .
The results of experiments involving the administration of clavulanic acid to animals suggest that this compound , like amoxicillin , is well distributed in body tissues .
Two hours after oral administration of a single 35 mg / kg dose of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium suspension to fasting children , average concentrations of 3 mcg / mL of amoxicillin and 0 . 5 mcg / mL of clavulanic acid were detected in middle ear effusions .
MicrobiologyAmoxicillin is a semisynthetic antibiotic with a broad spectrum of bactericidal activity against many gram - positive and gram - negative microorganisms .
Amoxicillin is , however , susceptible to degradation by β - lactamases , and therefore , the spectrum of activity does not include organisms which produce these enzymes .
Clavulanic acid is a β - lactam , structurally related to the penicillins , which possesses the ability to inactivate a wide range of β - lactamase enzymes commonly found in microorganisms resistant to penicillins and cephalosporins .
In particular , it has good activity against the clinically important plasmid - mediated β - lactamases frequently responsible for transferred drug resistance .
The formulation of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid in amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium protects amoxicillin from degradation by β - lactamase enzymes and effectively extends the antibiotic spectrum of amoxicillin to include many bacteria normally resistant to amoxicillin and other β - lactam antibiotics .
Thus , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium possess the distinctive properties of a broad - spectrum antibiotic and a β - lactamase inhibitor .
Amoxicillin / clavulanic acid has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE .
Gram - Positive Aerobes : Staphylococcus aureus ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) § § Staphylococci which are resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
Gram - Negative Aerobes : Enterobacterspecies ( Although most strains of Enterobacter species are resistant in vitro , clinical efficacy has been demonstrated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in urinary tract infections caused by these organisms . )
Escherichia coli ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Haemophilus influenzae ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Klebsiellaspecies ( All known strains are β - lactamase - producing . )
Moraxella catarrhalis ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Amoxicillin / clavulanic acid exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of 0 . 5 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae ║ ; MICs of 0 . 06 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae ; MICs of 4 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of staphylococci and anaerobic bacteria ; and MICs of 8 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of other listed organisms .
However , with the exception of organisms shown to respond to amoxicillin alone , the safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin / clavulanic acid in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
║ Because amoxicillin has greater in vitro activity against S . pneumoniae than does ampicillin or penicillin , the majority of S . pneumoniae strains with intermediate susceptibility to ampicillin or penicillin are fully susceptible to amoxicillin .
Gram - Positive Aerobes : Enterococcus faecalis ¶ Staphylococcus epidermidis ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Staphylococcus saprophyticus ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Streptococcus pneumoniae ¶ ** Streptococcus pyogenes ¶ ** viridans group Streptococcus ¶ ** Gram - Negative Aerobes : Eikenella corrodens ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Neisseria gonorrhoeae ¶ ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Proteus mirabilis ¶ ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Anaerobic Bacteria : Bacteroidesspecies , including Bacteroides fragilis ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Fusobacteriumspecies ( β - lactamase and non - β - lactamase - producing ) Peptostreptococcusspecies ** ¶ Adequate and well - controlled clinical trials have established the effectiveness of amoxicillin alone in treating certain clinical infections due to these organisms .
** These are non - β - producing organisms , and therefore , are susceptible to amoxicillin alone .
Susceptibility Testing : Dilution Techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial MICs .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method 1 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium powder .
The recommended dilution pattern utilizes a constant amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ratio of 2 to 1 in all tubes with varying amounts of amoxicillin .
MICs are expressed in terms of the amoxicillin concentration in the presence of clavulanic acid at a constant 2 parts amoxicillin to1 part clavulanic acid .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : RECOMMENDED RANGES FOR AMOXICILLIN / CLAVULANIC ACID SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING For Gram - Negative Enteric Aerobes : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 / 4 Susceptible ( S ) 16 / 8 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 32 / 16 Resistant ( R ) For Staphylococcus †† and Haemophilus species : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 4 / 2 Susceptible ( S ) ≥ 8 / 4 Resistant ( R ) †† Staphylococci which are susceptible to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid but resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered as resistant .
For S . pneumoniae from non - meningitis sources : Isolates should be tested using amoxicillin / clavulanic acid and the following criteria should be used : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 2 / 1 Susceptible ( S ) 4 / 2 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 8 / 4 Resistant ( R ) Note : These interpretive criteria are based on the recommended doses for respiratory tract infections .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentration usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC Range ( mcg / mL ) ‡‡ E . coli ATCC 25922 2 to 8 E . coli ATCC 35218 4 to 16 E . faecalis ATCC 29212 0 . 25 to 1 H . influenzae ATCC 49247 2 to 16 S . aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 12 to 0 . 5 S . pneumoniae ATCC 49619 0 . 03 to 0 . 12 ‡‡ Expressed as concentration of amoxicillin in the presence of clavulanic acid at a constant 2 parts amoxicillin to 1 part clavulanic acid .
Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure 2 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 mcg of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 20 mcg amoxicillin plus 10 mcg clavulanate potassium ) to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 mcg amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 20 mcg amoxicillin plus 10 mcg clavulanate potassium ) disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : RECOMMENDED RANGES FOR AMOXICILLIN / CLAVULANIC ACID SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING For Staphylococcus §§ species and H . influenzae a : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 20 Susceptible ( S ) ≤ 19 Resistant ( R ) For Other Organisms Except S . pneumoniaeb and N . gonorrhoeaec : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 Susceptible ( S ) 14 to 17 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 13 Resistant ( R ) §§ Staphylococci which are resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered as resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
aA broth microdilution method should be used for testing H . influenzae .
Beta - lactamase - negative , ampicillin - resistant strains must be considered resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
bSusceptibility of S . pneumoniae should be determined using a 1 mcg oxacillin disk .
Isolates with oxacillin zone sizes of ≥ 20 mm are susceptible to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
An amoxicillin / clavulanic acid MIC should be determined on isolates of S . pneumoniae with oxacillin zone sizes of ≤ 19 mm .
cA broth microdilution method should be used for testing N . gonorrhoeae and interpreted according to penicillin breakpoints .
Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 mcg amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 20 mcg amoxicillin plus 10 mcg clavulanate potassium ) disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) E . coli ATCC 25922 19 to 25 mm E . coli ATCC 35218 18 to 22 mm S . aureus ATCC 25923 28 to 36 mm INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by β - lactamase - producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Otitis Media - caused by β - lactamase - producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Sinusitis - caused by β - lactamase - producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by β - lactamase - producing strains of S . aureus , E . coli , and Klebsiella spp .
Urinary Tract Infections - caused by β - lactamase - producing strains of E . coli , Klebsiella spp .
and Enterobacter spp .
While amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is indicated only for the conditions listed above , infections caused by ampicillin - susceptible organisms are also amenable to treatment with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium due to its amoxicillin content .
Therefore , mixed infections caused by ampicillin - susceptible organisms and β - lactamase - producing organisms susceptible to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not require the addition of another antibiotic .
Because amoxicillin has greater in vitro activity against S . pneumoniae than does ampicillin or penicillin , the majority of S . pneumoniae strains with intermediate susceptibility to ampicillin or penicillin are fully susceptible to amoxicillin and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
( See Microbiology . )
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Bacteriological studies , to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be performed together with any indicated surgical procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) are contraindicated in patients with a history of allergic reactions to any penicillin .
It is also contraindicated in patients with a previous history of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium associated cholestatic jaundice / hepatic dysfunction .
WARNINGS SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY ( ANAPHYLACTIC ) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY .
THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY AND / OR A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS .
BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH AMOXICILLIN AND CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS , CEPHALOSPORINS , OR OTHER ALLERGENS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS AMOXICILLIN AND CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND THE APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Clostridium difficileassociated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficileproduces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be used with caution in patients with evidence of hepatic dysfunction .
Hepatic toxicity associated with the use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is usually reversible .
On rare occasions , deaths have been reported ( less than 1 death reported per estimated 4 million prescriptions worldwide ) .
These have generally been cases associated with serious underlying diseases or concomitant medications .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ― Liver . )
PRECAUTIONS General : While amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium possesses the characteristic low toxicity of the penicillin group of antibiotics , periodic assessment of organ system functions , including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic function , is advisable during prolonged therapy .
A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive ampicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , ampicillin - class antibiotics should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
The possibility of superinfections with mycotic or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
If superinfections occur ( usually involving Pseudomonas or Candida ) , the drug should be discontinued and / or appropriate therapy instituted .
Prescribing amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for the PatientAmoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be taken every 8 hours or every 12 hours , depending on the strength of the product prescribed .
Each dose should be taken with a meal or snack to reduce the possibility of gastrointestinal upset .
Many antibiotics can cause diarrhea .
If diarrhea is severe or lasts more than 2 or 3 days , call your doctor .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Keep suspension refrigerated .
Shake well before using .
When dosing a child with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension ( liquid ) , use a dosing spoon or medicine dropper .
Be sure to rinse the spoon or dropper after each use .
Bottles of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension may contain more liquid than required .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about the amount to use and the days of treatment your child requires .
Discard any unused medicine .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Phenylketonurics Each 200 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium chewable tablet contains 3 . 5 mg phenylalanine ; each 400 mg chewable tablet contains 7 mg phenylalanine ; each 5 mL of either the 200 mg / 5 mL or 400 mg / 5 mL oral suspension contains 7 mg phenylalanine .
The other products of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium do not contain phenylalanine and can be used by phenylketonurics .
Contact your physician or pharmacist .
Drug InteractionsProbenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin .
Concurrent use with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin .
Coadministration of probenecid cannot be recommended .
The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
There are no data with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and allopurinol administered concurrently .
In common with other broad - spectrum antibiotics , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsOral administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium will result in high urine concentrations of amoxicillin .
High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin and therefore amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Following administration of ampicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone , and estradiol has been noted .
This effect may also occur with amoxicillin and therefore amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of FertilityLong - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Mutagenesis : The mutagenic potential of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium was investigated in vitro with an Ames test , a human lymphocyte cytogenetic assay , a yeast test and a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , and in vivo with mouse micronucleus tests and a dominant lethal test .
All were negative apart from the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay where weak activity was found at very high , cytotoxic concentrations .
Impairment of Fertility : Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium at oral doses of up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day ( 5 . 7 times the maximum human dose , 1 , 480 mg / m 2 / day , based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance in rats , dosed with a 2 : 1 ratio formulation of amoxicillin : clavulanate .
Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy ( Category B ) .
Reproduction studies performed in pregnant rats and mice given amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium at oral dosages up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day , equivalent to 7 , 200 and 4 , 080 mg / m 2 / day , respectively ( 4 . 9 and 2 . 8 times the maximum human oral dose based on body surface area ) , revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and DeliveryOral ampicillin - class antibiotics are generally poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs have shown that intravenous administration of ampicillin decreased the uterine tone , frequency of contractions , height of contractions , and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether the use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
In a single study in women with premature rupture of fetal membranes , it was reported that prophylactic treatment with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be associated with an increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis in neonates .
Nursing MothersAmpicillin - class antibiotics are excreted in the milk ; therefore , caution should be exercised when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseBecause of incompletely developed renal function in neonates and young infants , the elimination of amoxicillin may be delayed .
Dosing of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be modified in pediatric patients younger than 12 weeks ( 3 months ) .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ― Pediatric . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is generally well tolerated .
The majority of side effects observed in clinical trials were of a mild and transient nature and less than 3 % of patients discontinued therapy because of drug - related side effects .
From the original premarketing studies , where both pediatric and adult patients were enrolled , the most frequently reported adverse effects were diarrhea / loose stools ( 9 % ) , nausea ( 3 % ) , skin rashes and urticaria ( 3 % ) , vomiting ( 1 % ) and vaginitis ( 1 % ) .
The overall incidence of side effects , and in particular diarrhea , increased with the higher recommended dose .
Other less frequently reported reactions include : Abdominal discomfort , flatulence , and headache .
In pediatric patients ( aged 2 months to 12 years ) , 1 US / Canadian clinical trial was conducted which compared amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 45 / 6 . 4 mg / kg / day ( divided q12h ) for 10 days versus amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 40 / 10 mg / kg / day ( divided q8h ) for 10 days in the treatment of acute otitis media .
A total of 575 patients were enrolled , and only the suspension formulations were used in this trial .
Overall , the adverse event profile seen was comparable to that noted above ; however , there were differences in the rates of diarrhea , skin rashes / urticaria , and diaper area rashes .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
The following adverse reactions have been reported for ampicillin - class antibiotics : Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , indigestion , gastritis , stomatitis , glossitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , mucocutaneous candidiasis , enterocolitis , and hemorrhagic / pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Skin rashes , pruritus , urticaria , angioedema , serum sickness - like reactions ( urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia , and frequently fever ) , erythema multiforme ( rarely Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , hypersensitivity vasculitis , and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis ( including toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported .
These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , the drug should be discontinued , unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise .
Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions can occur with oral penicillin .
( See WARNINGS . )
Liver : A moderate rise in AST ( SGOT ) and / or ALT ( SGPT ) has been noted in patients treated with ampicillin - class antibiotics , but the significance of these findings is unknown .
Hepatic dysfunction , including hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice , ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) , increases in serum transaminases ( AST and / or ALT ) , serum bilirubin and / or alkaline phosphatase , has been infrequently reported with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
It has been reported more commonly in the elderly , in males , or in patients on prolonged treatment .
The histologic findings on liver biopsy have consisted of predominantly cholestatic , hepatocellular , or mixed cholestatic - hepatocellular changes .
The onset of signs / symptoms of hepatic dysfunction may occur during or several weeks after therapy has been discontinued .
The hepatic dysfunction , which may be severe , is usually reversible .
On rare occasions , deaths have been reported ( less than 1 death reported per estimated 4 million prescriptions worldwide ) .
These have generally been cases associated with serious underlying diseases or concomitant medications .
Renal : Interstitial nephritis and hematuria have been reported rarely .
Crystalluria has also been reported ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
A slight thrombocytosis was noted in less than 1 % of the patients treated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
There have been reports of increased prothrombin time in patients receiving amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and anticoagulant therapy concomitantly .
Central Nervous System : Agitation , anxiety , behavioral changes , confusion , convulsions , dizziness , insomnia , and reversible hyperactivity have been reported rarely .
Miscellaneous : Tooth discoloration ( brown , yellow , or gray staining ) has been rarely reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
OVERDOSAGE Following overdosage , patients have experienced primarily gastrointestinal symptoms including stomach and abdominal pain , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Rash , hyperactivity , or drowsiness have also been observed in a small number of patients .
In the case of overdosage , discontinue amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
If the overdosage is very recent and there is no contraindication , an attempt at emesis or other means of removal of drug from the stomach may be performed .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms and do not require gastric emptying .
3 Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in a small number of patients after overdosage with amoxicillin .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of both amoxicillin and clavulanate .
Both amoxicillin and clavulanate are removed from the circulation by hemodialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage : Pediatric Patients : Based on the amoxicillin component , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be dosed as follows : Neonates and infants aged less than 12 weeks ( 3 months ) : Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group , the recommended dose of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is 30 mg / kg / day divided q12h , based on the amoxicillin component .
Clavulanate elimination is unaltered in this age group .
Experience with the 200 mg / 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited and , thus , use of the 125 mg / 5 mL oral suspension is recommended .
Patients aged 12 weeks ( 3 months ) and olderINFECTIONS DOSING REGIMEN q12h * q8h 200 mg / 5 mL or 400 mg / 5 mL oral suspension † 125 mg / 5 mL or 250 mg / 5 mL oral suspension Otitis media ‡ , sinusitis , lower respiratory tract infections , and more severe infections 45 mg / kg / day q12h 40 mg / kg / day q8h Less severe infections 25 mg / kg / day q12h 20 mg / kg / day q8h * The q12h regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
However , the q12h formulations ( 200 mg and 400 mg ) contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics .
† Each strength of suspension of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children .
‡ Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days .
Pediatric Patients Weighing 40 kg and More : Should be dosed according to the following adult recommendations : The usual adult dose is one amoxicillin 500 mg and clavulanate potassium tablet every 12 hours or one amoxicillin 250 mg and clavulanate potassium tablet every 8 hours .
For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract , the dose should be one amoxicillin 875 mg and clavulanate potassium tablet every 12 hours or one amoxicillin 500 mg and clavulanate potassium tablet every 8 hours .
Among adults treated with 875 mg every 12 hours , significantly fewer experienced severe diarrhea or withdrawals with diarrhea versus adults treated with 500 mg every 8 hours .
For detailed adult dosage recommendations , please see complete prescribing information for amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets .
Hepatically impaired patients should be dosed with caution and hepatic function monitored at regular intervals .
( See WARNINGS . )
Adults : Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the 125 mg / 5 mL or 250 mg / 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg tablet .
The 200 mg / 5 mL suspension or the 400 mg / 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg tablet .
See dosage recommendations above for children weighing 40 kg or more .
The amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid ( as the potassium salt ) .
Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg tablet contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid , whereas the 250 mg chewable tablet contains 62 . 5 mg of clavulanic acid .
Therefore , amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet should not be substituted for each other , as they are not interchangeable .
Due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg tablet ( 250 / 125 ) versus amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg chewable tablet ( 250 / 62 . 5 ) , amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 250 mg tablet should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg and more .
Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension : Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows : Tap bottle until all the powder flows freely .
Add approximately 2 / 3 of the total amount of water for reconstitution ( see table below ) and shake vigorously to suspend powder .
Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously .
Amoxicillin / Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , 200 mg / 5 mLBottle Size Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution 50 mL 47 mL 75 mL 70 mL 100 mL 94 mL Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) will contain 200 mg amoxicillin and 28 . 5 mg clavulanic acid as the potassium salt .
Amoxicillin / Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , 400 mg / 5 mLBottle Size Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution 50 mL 46 mL 75 mL 68 mL 100 mL 90 mL Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) will contain 400 mg amoxicillin and 57 mg clavulanic acid as the potassium salt .
Note : SHAKE ORAL SUSPENSION WELL BEFORE USING .
Reconstituted suspension must be stored under refrigeration and discarded after 10 days .
Administration : Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be taken without regard to meals ; however , absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is administered at the start of a meal .
To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be taken at the start of a meal .
HOW SUPPLIED Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , USP ( Chewable ) : 400 mg / 57 mg Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) 400 mg / 57 mg contain 400 mg of amoxicillin as the trihydrate and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as clavulanate potassium .
Each tablet is a pink colored , circular , biconvex , mottled tablet , debossed with ‘ RX754 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 54868 - 0286 - 0 Bottles of 20 Store dry powder and tablets at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in tightly closed , moisture - proof containers .
Store reconstituted suspension under refrigeration .
Discard unused suspension after 10 days .
CLINICAL STUDIES In pediatric patients ( aged 2 months to 12 years ) , 1 US / Canadian clinical trial was conducted which compared amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 45 / 6 . 4 mg / kg / day ( divided q12h ) for 10 days versus amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium 40 / 10 mg / kg / day ( divided q8h ) for 10 days in the treatment of acute otitis media .
Only the suspension formulations were used in this trial .
A total of 575 patients were enrolled , with an even distribution among the 2 treatment groups and a comparable number of patients were evaluable ( i . e . , ≥ 84 % ) per treatment group .
Strict otitis media - specific criteria were required for eligibility and a strong correlation was found at the end of therapy and follow - up between these criteria and physician assessment of clinical response .
The clinical efficacy rates at the end of therapy visit ( defined as 2 to 4 days after the completion of therapy ) and at the follow - up visit ( defined as 22 to 28 days post - completion of therapy ) were comparable for the 2 treatment groups , with the following cure rates obtained for the evaluable patients : At end of therapy , 87 . 2 % ( n = 265 ) and 82 . 3 % ( n = 260 ) for 45 mg / kg / day q12h and 40 mg / kg / day q8h , respectively .
At follow - up , 67 . 1 % ( n = 249 ) and 68 . 7 % ( n = 243 ) for 45 mg / kg / day q12h and 40 mg / kg / day q8h , respectively .
The incidence of diarrhea ††† was significantly lower in patients in the q12h treatment group compared to patients who received the q8h regimen ( 14 . 3 % and 34 . 3 % , respectively ) .
In addition , the number of patients with either severe diarrhea or who were withdrawn with diarrhea was significantly lower in the q12h treatment group ( 3 . 1 % and 7 . 6 % for the q12h / 10 day and q8h / 10 day , respectively ) .
In the q12h treatment group , 3 patients ( 1 % ) were withdrawn with an allergic reaction , while 1 patient ( 0 . 3 % ) in the q8h group was withdrawn for this reason .
The number of patients with a candidal infection of the diaper area was 3 . 8 % and 6 . 2 % for the q12h and q8h groups , respectively .
It is not known if the finding of a statistically significant reduction in diarrhea with the oral suspensions dosed q12h , versus suspensions dosed q8h , can be extrapolated to the chewable tablets .
The presence of mannitol in the chewable tablets may contribute to a different diarrhea profile .
The q12h oral suspensions are sweetened with aspartame only .
††† Diarrhea was defined as either : ( a ) 3 or more watery or 4 or more loose / watery stools in 1 day ; OR ( b ) 2 watery stools per day or 3 loose / watery stools per day for 2 consecutive days .
REFERENCES 1 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically - Third Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A3 , Vol .
13 , No .
25 .
NCCLS , Villanova , PA , Dec . 1993 .
2 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standard for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests - Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A5 , Vol .
13 , No . 24 .
NCCLS , Villanova , PA , Dec . 1993 .
3 .
Swanson - Biearman B , Dean BS , Lopez G , Krenzelok EP .
The effects of penicillin and cephalosporin ingestions in children less than six years of age .
Vet Hum Toxicol 1988 ; 30 : 66 - 67 .
CLINITEST is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
CLINISTIX is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited New Delhi – 110 019 , India April 2008 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , USP ( Chewable ) : 400 mg / 57 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
