None .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMULIN 70 / 30 is a fixed ratio premix recombinant human insulin formulation indicated to improve glycemic control in adult patients with diabetes mellitus .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is an insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult patients with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Only administer subcutaneously ( in abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks ) .
( 2 . 2 ) • Individualize and adjust dosage based on metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for dosage adjustments due to drug interactions and patients with renal and hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 3 ) • Administer approximately 30 - 45 minutes before a meal .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Inspect HUMULIN 70 / 30 visually before use .
It should not contain particulate matter and should appear uniformly cloudy after mixing .
Do not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 if particulate matter is seen .
Do not mix HUMULIN 70 / 30 with any other insulins or diluents .
2 . 2 Route of Administration HUMULIN 70 / 30 should only be administered subcutaneously .
Administer in the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks .
To reduce the risk of lipodystrophy , rotate the injection site within the same region from one injection to the next [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Do not administer HUMULIN 70 / 30 intravenously or intramuscularly and do not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 in an insulin infusion pump .
2 . 3 Dosage Information Individualize and adjust the dosage of HUMULIN 70 / 30 based on the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
The proportion of rapid acting and long acting insulin is fixed in a premixed insulin such as HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Independent adjustment of the basal or prandial dose is not possible when using a premixed insulin .
Physiological factors , disease states and concomitant drugs may impact the onset and duration of action of all insulins .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 dose requirements may change with changes in level of physical activity , meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , during major illness , or with some coadministered drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 4 Timing of Subcutaneous Administration HUMULIN 70 / 30 should be given subcutaneously approximately 30 - 45 minutes before a meal .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS HUMULIN 70 / 30 injectable suspension : 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : • 10 mL vials • 3 mL vials • 3 mL HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen ( prefilled ) Injectable suspension 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) available as 10 mL vials , 3 mL vials , and 3 mL HUMULIN ® 70 / 30 KwikPen ® ( prefilled ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMULIN 70 / 30 is contraindicated : • During episodes of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , and • In patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMULIN 70 / 30 or any of its excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• During episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • In patients with hypersensitivity to HUMULIN 70 / 30 or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share a HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Changes in Insulin Regimen : Carry out under close medical supervision and increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor blood glucose and increase monitoring frequency with changes to insulin dosage , use of glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; and in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 , 7 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : May be life - threatening .
Discontinue HUMULIN 70 / 30 , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Never Share a HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPens must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMULIN 70 / 30 vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in insulin strength , manufacturer , type , or method of administration may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
These changes should be made cautiously and under close medical supervision and the frequency of blood glucose monitoring should be increased .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulin preparations , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMULIN 70 / 30 may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMULIN 70 / 30 ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMULIN 70 / 30 or any of its excipients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypokalemia All insulin products , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 6 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions observed with insulin therapy include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , pruritus , rash , weight gain , and edema .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Allergic Reactions Some patients taking HUMULIN 70 / 30 have experienced erythema , local edema , and pruritus at the site of injection .
These conditions were usually self - limiting .
Severe cases of generalized allergy ( anaphylaxis ) have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Peripheral Edema Some patients taking HUMULIN 70 / 30 have experienced sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Lipodystrophy Administration of insulin subcutaneously , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 , has resulted in lipoatrophy ( depression in the skin ) or lipohypertrophy ( enlargement or thickening of tissue ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] in some patients .
Weight gain Weight gain has occurred with some insulin therapies including HUMULIN 70 / 30 and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glycosuria .
Immunogenicity Development of antibodies that react with human insulin have been observed with all insulin , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) • Anti - Adrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia associated with HUMULIN 70 / 30 use may be increased when co - administered with antidiabetic agents , salicylates , sulfonamide antibiotics , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , fluoxetine , disopyramide , fibrates , propoxyphene , pentoxifylline , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , and somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN 70 / 30 is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 2 Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN 70 / 30 The glucose lowering effect of HUMULIN 70 / 30 may be decreased when co - administered with corticosteroids , isoniazid , niacin , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , albuterol , terbutaline ) , somatropin , atypical antipsychotics , glucagon , protease inhibitors , and thyroid hormones .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN 70 / 30 is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 3 Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN 70 / 30 The glucose lowering effect of HUMULIN 70 / 30 may be increased or decreased when co - administered with beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and alcohol .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN 70 / 30 is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 4 Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia The signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] may be blunted when beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine are co - administered with HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Risk Summary All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcome regardless of drug exposure .
This background risk is increased in pregnancies complicated by hyperglycemia and may be decreased with good metabolic control .
It is essential for patients with diabetes or history of gestational diabetes to maintain good metabolic control before conception and throughout pregnancy .
In patients with diabetes or gestational diabetes , insulin requirements may decrease during the first trimester , generally increase during the second and third trimesters , and rapidly decline after delivery .
Careful monitoring of glucose control is essential in these patients .
Therefore , female patients should be advised to tell their physicians if they intend to become , or if they become pregnant while taking HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Human Data While there are no adequate and well - controlled studies of HUMULIN 70 / 30 in pregnant women , evidence from published literature suggests that good glycemic control in patients with diabetes during pregnancy provides significant maternal and fetal benefits .
Animal Data Reproduction and fertility toxicity studies were not performed in animals .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Endogenous insulin is present in human milk ; it is unknown whether HUMULIN 70 / 30 is present in human milk .
Insulin orally ingested is degraded in the gastrointestinal tract .
No adverse reactions associated with infant exposure to insulin through the consumption of human milk have been reported .
Good glucose control supports lactation in patients with diabetes .
Women with diabetes who are lactating may require adjustments in their insulin dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of HUMULIN 70 / 30 in patients less than 18 years of age has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN 70 / 30 has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with advanced age using any insulin , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 , may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia due to co - morbid disease and polypharmacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN 70 / 30 has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN 70 / 30 dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN 70 / 30 has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN 70 / 30 dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or physical activity level may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION HUMULIN 70 / 30 ( 70 % human insulin isophane suspension and 30 % human insulin injection [ rDNA origin ] ) is a human insulin suspension .
Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is a suspension of crystals produced from combining human insulin and protamine sulfate under appropriate conditions for crystal formation and mixing with human insulin injection .
The amino acid sequence of HUMULIN 70 / 30 is identical to human insulin and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 with a molecular weight of 5808 .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is a sterile white suspension .
Each milliliter of HUMULIN 70 / 30 contains 100 units of insulin human , 0 . 24 mg of protamine sulfate , 16 mg of glycerin , 3 . 78 mg of dibasic sodium phosphate , 1 . 6 mg of metacresol , 0 . 65 mg of phenol , zinc oxide content adjusted to provide 0 . 025 mg zinc ion , and Water for Injection .
The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action HUMULIN 70 / 30 lowers blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics HUMULIN 70 / 30 combines an intermediate - acting insulin with the more rapid onset of action of regular human insulin .
In healthy males ( n = 18 ) given HUMULIN 70 / 30 ( 0 . 3 unit / kg ) subcutaneously , the pharmacologic effect began at approximately 50 minutes ( range : 30 to 90 minutes ) ( see Figure 1 ) .
The effect was maximal at approximately 3 . 5 hours ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 . 5 hours ) and the mean duration of action was relatively long ( approximately 23 hours ; range : 18 - 24 hours ) .
Figure 1 should be considered only as a representative example since the time course of action of insulin may vary in different individuals or within the same individual .
The rate of insulin absorption and consequently the onset of activity is known to be affected by the site of injection , physical activity level , and other variables [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption — In healthy male subjects given HUMULIN 70 / 30 ( 0 . 3 unit / kg ) subcutaneously , the mean peak serum concentration occurred at 2 . 2 hours ( range : 1 to 5 hours ) after dosing .
Metabolism — The uptake and degradation of insulin occurs predominantly in liver , kidney , muscle , and adipocytes , with the liver being the major organ involved in the clearance of insulin .
Elimination — Because of the absorption - rate limited kinetics of insulin mixtures , a true half - life cannot be accurately estimated from the terminal slope of the concentration versus time curve .
Specific Populations The effects of age , gender , race , obesity , pregnancy , or smoking on the pharmacokinetics of HUMULIN 70 / 30 have not been studied .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including HUMULIN 70 / 30 , may be necessary in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and fertility studies were not performed in animals .
Biosynthetic human insulin was not genotoxic in the in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay and the in vitro gradient plate and unscheduled DNA synthesis assays .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 0444 NDC : 50090 - 0444 - 0 10 mL in a VIAL 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share a HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients Advise patients that they must never share a HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen with another person , even if the needle is changed .
Advise patients using HUMULIN 70 / 30 vials not to share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
Hypoglycemia Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia especially at initiation of HUMULIN 70 / 30 therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that accidental mix - ups between HUMULIN 70 / 30 and other insulins have been reported .
Instruct patients to always carefully check that they are administering the correct insulin ( e . g . , by checking the insulin label before each injection ) to avoid medication errors between HUMULIN 70 / 30 and other insulins .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Females with Reproductive Potential Advise females of reproductive potential with diabetes to inform their doctor if they are pregnant or are contemplating pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Visual Inspection Prior to Use Instruct patients to visually inspect HUMULIN 70 / 30 before use and to use HUMULIN 70 / 30 only if it contains no particulate matter and appears uniformly cloudy after mixing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Expiration Date Instruct patients not to use HUMULIN 70 / 30 after the printed expiration date .
____________ HUMULIN ® and HUMULIN ® 70 / 30 KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Literature revised July 11 , 2017 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1992 , 2017 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LIN7030 - 0002 - USPI - 20170711 PATIENT INFORMATION HUMULIN ® ( HU - mu - lin ) 70 / 30 ( 70 % human insulin isophane suspension and 30 % human insulin injection [ rDNA origin ] ) Do not share your HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
• HUMULIN 70 / 30 is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
Do not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to HUMULIN 70 / 30 or any of the ingredients in HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Before using HUMULIN 70 / 30 , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including , if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take any other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
• are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or are breastfeeding .
• are taking new prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Before you start using HUMULIN 70 / 30 , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that come with your HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
• Use HUMULIN 70 / 30 exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Know the type and strength of insulin you use .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you use different types of insulin .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
• Do not share your HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Your HUMULIN 70 / 30 dose may need to change because of : • change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet .
What should I avoid while using HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
While using HUMULIN 70 / 30 do not : • Drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how HUMULIN 70 / 30 affects you .
• Drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
HUMULIN 70 / 30 may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms that may indicate low blood sugar include : • dizziness or light - headedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability , or mood changes , hunger .
• serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body , trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with HUMULIN 70 / 30 may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gainTreatment with TZDs and HUMULIN 70 / 30 may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of HUMULIN 70 / 30 include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions including reactions at the injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , itching , rash , weight gain , and swelling of your hands and feet .
These are not all the possible side effects of HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMULIN 70 / 30 : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HUMULIN 70 / 30 that is written for health professionals .
Do not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HUMULIN 70 / 30 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
What are the ingredients in HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
Active Ingredient : insulin human ( rDNA origin ) Inactive Ingredients : protamine sulfate , glycerin , dibasic sodium phosphate , metacresol , phenol , zinc oxide , water for injection , hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide For more information , call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 or go to www . humulin . com .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Patient Information revised July 11 , 2017 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1992 , 2017 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LIN7030 - 0002 - PPI - 20170711 Instructions for Use HUMULIN ® ( HU - mu - lin ) 70 / 30 ( 70 % human insulin isophane suspension and 30 % human insulin injection [ rDNA origin ] ) vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN 70 / 30 and each time you get a new HUMULIN 70 / 30 vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection : • a HUMULIN 70 / 30 vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ Disposing of used needles and syringes ” at the end of these instructions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing your HUMULIN 70 / 30 dose : • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the HUMULIN 70 / 30 label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use HUMULIN 70 / 30 past the expiration date printed on the label or 31 days after you first use it .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection to help ensure sterility and prevent blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : Gently roll the vial between the palms of your hands at least 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Carefully invert the vial at least 10 times .
Mixing is important to make sure you get the right dose .
Humulin 70 / 30 should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use it if it looks clear or contains any lumps or particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : If you are using a new vial , pull off the plastic Protective Cap , but do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger until the tip of the Plunger reaches the line for the number of units for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 6 : Push the needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Push the plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the Plunger down until the tip is a few units past the line for your prescribed dose .
If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently a few times to let any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units Plunger is shown at 24 units ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the tip reaches the line for your prescribed dose .
Check the syringe to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 10 : Pull the syringe out of the vial ' s Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving your HUMULIN 70 / 30 injection : • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site for each injection .
Step 11 : Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
The needle should stay in your skin for at least 5 seconds to make sure you have injected all of your insulin dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : Pull the needle out of your skin .
• If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of used needles and syringes : • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store HUMULIN 70 / 30 ?
All unopened HUMULIN 70 / 30 vials : • Store all unopened vials in the refrigerator .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 31 days , if they are stored at room temperature .
After HUMULIN 70 / 30 vials have been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 31 days .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Throw away all opened vials after 31 days of use , even if there is still insulin left in the vial .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
• Keep HUMULIN 70 / 30 vials , syringes , needles , and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection .
• Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN and insulin , go to www . humulin . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humulin ® is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Instructions for Use revised : September 24 , 2015 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1992 , 2015 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LIN7030VL - 0002 - IFU - 20150924 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMULIN ® 70 / 30 KwikPen ® ( 70 % human insulin isophane suspension 30 % human insulin injection [ rDNA origin ] ) 100 units / mL , 3 mL pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN 70 / 30 and each time you get another KwikPen .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMULIN ® 70 / 30 KwikPen ® ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 1 unit of insulin .
You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
This Pen is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired without the help of someone trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen • Pen color : Beige • Dose Knob : Brown • Labels : White label with brown stripe Supplies you will need to give your injection • HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 10 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• - Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
• - Do not attach the Needle before mixing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Gently roll the Pen between your hands 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : • Move the Pen up and down ( invert ) 10 times .
Mixing by rolling and inverting the Pen is important to make sure you get the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use if it looks clear or has any lumps or particles in it .
Step 5 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 8 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
• You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 8 to 10 , no more than 4 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 8 to 10 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 11 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site for each injection .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 12 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
• Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 15 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 16 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 17 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMULIN 70 / 30 Pen you are using after 10 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen and insulin , go to www . lilly . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humulin . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMULIN ® and HUMULIN ® KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : January 6 , 2017 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2013 , 2017 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMULIN 70 / 30 KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 : 2014 .
LIN7030KP - 0003 - IFU - 20170106 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INACTIVE INGREDIENT protamine sulfate , glycerin , dibasic sodium phosphate , metacresol , phenol , zinc oxide , water for injection , hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide ACTIVE INGREDIENT insulin human ( rDNA origin ) KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Insulin human [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
