Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE DESCRIPTION VANOS ( fluocinonide ) Cream , 0 . 1 % contains fluocinonide , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Fluocinonide has the chemical name 6 alpha , 9 alpha - difluoro - 11 beta , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 alpha , 17 alpha - isopropylidenedioxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate .
Its chemical formula is C26H32F2O7 and it has a molecular weight of 494 . 58 .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinonide is an almost odorless white to creamy white crystalline powder .
It is practically insoluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
Each gram of VANOS Cream contains 1 mg micronized fluocinonide in a cream base of propylene glycol USP , dimethyl isosorbide , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , glyceryl monostearate NF , purified water USP , carbopol 980 NF , diisopropanolamine , and citric acid USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , VANOS ( fluocinonide ) Cream , has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of topical corticosteroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachadonic acid .
Arachadonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Vasoconstrictor studies performed with VANOS Cream , 0 . 1 % in healthy subjects indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids ; however , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Application of VANOS Cream , 0 . 1 % twice daily for 14 days in 18 adult patients with plaque - type psoriasis ( 10 – 50 % BSA , mean 19 . 6 % BSA ) showed demonstrable HPA - axis suppression in 2 patients ( with 12 % and 25 % BSA ) where the criterion for HPA - axis suppression is a serum cortisol level of less than or equal to 18 micrograms per deciliter 30 minutes after stimulation with cosyntropin ( ACTH1 – 24 ) ( See PRECAUTIONS : General and Pediatric Use ) .
HPA - axis suppression has not been evaluated in psoriasis patients who are less than 18 years of age .
HPA - axis suppression has been evaluated in pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis 12 to 18 years of age ( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Two adequate and well - controlled efficacy and safety studies of VANOS Cream have been completed , one in adult patients with plaque - type psoriasis ( Table 1 ) , and one in adult patients with atopic dermatitis ( Table 2 ) .
In each of these studies , patients with between 2 % and 10 % body surface area involvement at Baseline treated all affected areas either once daily or twice daily with VANOS Cream for 14 consecutive days .
The primary measure of efficacy was the proportion of patients whose condition was cleared or almost cleared at the end of treatment .
The results of these studies are presented in the tables below as percent and number of patients achieving treatment success at Week 2 .
Table 1 : Plaque - Type Psoriasis in Adults VANOS Cream , once daily ( n = 107 ) Vehicle , once daily ( n = 54 ) VANOS Cream , twice daily ( n = 107 ) Vehicle , twice daily ( n = 55 ) Patients cleared 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) 6 ( 6 % ) 0 ( 0 ) Patients achieving treatment success [ 1 ] 19 ( 18 % ) 4 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 31 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) [ 1 ] Cleared or almost cleared Table 2 : Atopic Dermatitis in Adults VANOS Cream , once daily ( n = 109 ) Vehicle , once daily ( n = 50 ) VANOS Cream , twice daily ( n = 102 ) Vehicle , twice daily ( n = 52 ) Patients cleared 11 ( 10 % ) 0 ( 0 ) 17 ( 17 % ) 0 ( 0 ) Patients achieving treatment success [ 1 ] 64 ( 59 % ) 6 ( 12 % ) 58 ( 57 % ) 10 ( 19 % ) [ 1 ] Cleared or almost cleared No efficacy studies have been conducted to compare VANOS ( fluocinonide ) Cream , 0 . 1 % with any other topical corticosteroid product , including fluocinonide cream 0 . 05 % .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE VANOS ( fluocinonide ) Cream , 0 . 1 % , is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older ( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g / week because the safety of VANOS Cream for longer than 2 weeks has not been established and because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Therapy should be discontinued when control of the disease is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week .
CONTRAINDICATIONS VANOS Cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for gluococorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
In addition , use of VANOS Cream for longer than 2 weeks may also suppress the immune system ( see PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility ) .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA - axis suppression .
This may be done by using cosyntropin ( ACTH1 – 24 ) stimulation testing .
Patients should not be treated with VANOS Cream for more than 2 weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any time due to the increased risk of HPA - axis suppression .
If HPA - axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA - axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Application of VANOS Cream , 0 . 1 % twice daily for 14 days in 18 adult patients with plaque - type psoriasis ( 10 – 50 % BSA , mean 19 . 6 % BSA ) and 31 adult patients ( 17 treated once daily ; 14 treated twice daily ) with atopic dermatitis ( 2 – 10 % BSA , mean 5 % BSA ) showed demonstrable HPA - axis suppression in 2 patients with psoriasis ( with 12 % and 25 % BSA ) and 1 patient with atopic dermatitis ( treated once daily , 4 % BSA ) where the criterion for HPA - axis suppression is a serum cortisol level of less than or equal to 18 micrograms per deciliter 30 minutes after stimulation with cosyntropin ( ACTH1 – 24 ) ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Controlled clinical efficacy studies of VANOS Cream in pediatric patients younger than 17 years of age have not been conducted ; ( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
HPA - axis suppression has not been evaluated in psoriasis patients who are less than 18 years of age .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , VANOS Cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of VANOS Cream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
VANOS Cream should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
Information for the Patient Patients using VANOS Cream should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or unintended effects : • 1 ) VANOS Cream is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
It should not be used on the face , groin , and underarms .
• 2 ) VANOS Cream should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 ) The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 ) Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 ) Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with VANOS Cream without first talking to the physician .
• 6 ) As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen in 2 weeks , the patient should be instructed to contact a physician .
The safety of the use of VANOS Cream for longer than 2 weeks has not been established .
• 7 ) Patients should be informed to not use more than 60 g per week of VANOS Cream .
Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week .
• 8 ) Patients should inform their physicians that they are using VANOS Cream if surgery is contemplated .
• 9 ) Patients should wash their hands after applying medication .
Laboratory Tests The cosyntropin ( ACTH1 – 24 ) stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA - axis suppression .
Carcinogenesis , M utagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of VANOS Cream because of severe immunosuppression induced in a 13 - week dermal rat study .
The effects of fluocinonide on fertility have not been evaluated .
Fluocinonide revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames test and chromosomal aberration assay using human lymphocytes ) .
However , fluocinonide was positive for clastogenic potential when tested in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Topical ( dermal ) application of 0 . 0003 % – 0 . 03 % fluocinonide cream to rats once daily for 13 weeks resulted in a toxicity profile generally associated with long - term exposure to corticosteroids including decreased skin thickness , adrenal atrophy , and severe immunosuppression .
A NOAEL could not be determined in this study .
In addition , topical ( dermal ) application of 0 . 1 % fluocinonide cream plus UVR exposure to hairless mice for 13 weeks and 150 – 900 mg / kg / day of 0 . 1 % fluocinonide cream to minipigs ( a model which more closely approximates human skin ) for 13 weeks produced glucocorticoid - related suppression of the HPA axis , with some signs of immunosuppression noted in the dermal minipig study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic Effects Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , VANOS Cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of VANOS Cream in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age have not been established ; therefore use in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age is not recommended .
HPA - axis suppression was studied in 4 sequential cohorts of pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis covering at least 20 % of the body surface area , treated once daily or twice daily with VANOS Cream .
The first cohort of 31 patients ( mean 36 . 3 % BSA ) 12 to < 18 years old ; the second cohort included 31 patients ( mean 39 . 0 % BSA ) 6 to < 12 years old ; the third cohort included 30 patients ( mean 34 . 6 % BSA ) 2 to < 6 years old ; the fourth cohort included 31 patients ( mean 40 . 0 % BSA ) 3 months to < 2 years old .
VANOS Cream caused HPA - axis suppression in 1 patient in the twice daily group in Cohort 1 , 2 patients in the twice daily group in Cohort 2 , and 1 patient in the twice daily group in Cohort 3 .
Follow - up testing 14 days after treatment discontinuation , available for all 4 suppressed patients , demonstrated a normally responsive HPA - axis .
Signs of skin atrophy were present at baseline and severity was not determined making it difficult to assess local skin safety .
Therefore , the safety of VANOS Cream in patients younger than 12 years of age has not been demonstrated .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA - axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to cosyntropin ( ACTH1 – 24 ) stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of VANOS Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , a total of 443 adult patients with atopic dermatitis or plaque - type psoriasis were treated once daily or twice daily with VANOS Cream for 2 weeks .
The most commonly observed adverse events in these clinical trials were as follows : Table 3 : Most Commonly Observed Adverse Events in Adult Clinical TrialsAdverse Event VANOS Cream , once daily ( n = 216 ) VANOS Cream , twice daily ( n = 227 ) Vehicle Cream , once or twice daily ( n = 211 ) Headache 8 / 216 ( 3 . 7 % ) 9 / 227 ( 4 . 0 % ) 6 / 211 ( 2 . 8 % ) Application Site Burning 5 / 216 ( 2 . 3 % ) 4 / 227 ( 1 . 8 % ) 14 / 211 ( 6 . 6 % ) Nasopharyngitis 2 / 216 ( 0 . 9 % ) 3 / 227 ( 1 . 3 % ) 3 / 211 ( 1 . 4 % ) Nasal Congestion 3 / 216 ( 1 . 4 % ) 1 / 227 ( 0 . 4 % ) 0 Unspecified Application Site Reaction 1 / 216 ( 0 . 4 % ) 1 / 227 ( 0 . 4 % ) 3 / 211 ( 1 . 4 % ) No other adverse events were reported by more than 1 subject receiving active treatment .
The incidence of all adverse events was similar between the active treatment groups and the vehicle control groups .
Safety in patients 12 to 17 years of age was similar to that observed in adults .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied VANOS Cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For psoriasis , apply a thin layer of VANOS Cream once or twice daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician .
Twice daily application for the treatment of psoriasis has been shown to be more effective in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment .
For atopic dermatitis , apply a thin layer of VANOS Cream once daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician .
Once daily application for the treatment of atopic dermatitis has been shown to be as effective as twice daily treatment in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment ( See CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
For corticosteroid responsive dermatoses , other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , apply a thin layer of VANOS Cream once or twice daily to the affected areas as directed by a physician .
Treatment with VANOS Cream should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and no more than 60 g / week should be used .
Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week .
Therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
HOW SUPPLIED VANOS ( fluocinonide ) Cream 0 . 1 % is supplied in tubes as follows : 60 g ( NDC 54868 - 6204 - 0 ) Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Medicis , The Dermatology Company Scottsdale , AZ 85256 Manufactured by : Contract Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Mississauga , Ontario Canada L5N 6L6 Made in Canada U . S . Patents 6 , 765 , 001 ; 7 , 217 , 422 ; 7 , 220 , 424 and Patents Pending VANOS is a registered trademark of Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation .
Prescribing information as of February 2010 .
05100002 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton Vanos ® ( fluocinonide ) cream 0 . 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Rx only 60 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
