claims " Alexa , reorder Amazon Basics Antiseptic Rinse " SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION DO NOT USE IF SAFETY SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
This rinse may cause temporary staining to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful , and adequate brushing may prevent its occurence Active ingredient Cetylpyridinium Chloride 0 . 07 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding or redness persists for more than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gun line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
if more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 years & older : rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls ) twice a day • do not swallow • children 6 years to under 12 years of age : supervise use • when used after brushng , rinse mouth with water first • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing inactive ingredients water , glycerin , flavor , poloxamer 188 , sodium saccharin , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sucralose , benzoic acid , blue 1 SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION This rinse may cause temporary staining to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful , and adequate brushing may prevent its occurence DISTRIBUTED BY : Foodhold USA LLC Landover , MD 20785 1 - 877 - 846 - 9949 ( c ) 2018 S & S Brands , LLC Quality guaranteed or your money back principal display panel Care One * Compare to Crest Pro health Clean Mint multi action antiseptic oral rinse Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Kills germs Alcohol Free Vivid minto flavor Helps prevent plaque Helps prevent gingivitis Freshens breath 33 . 8 FL OZ ( 1 . 05 QT ) 1 L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
