Active ingredients D - Sorbitol ( 20 g / 100 ml ) Glycerin ( 29 g / 100 ml ) Purpose Oral Pain Reliever Oral demulcents Uses For the temporarily relief of : occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , and sore throat Warnings Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - following symptoms after use : irritation inside mouth , skin rash rube faction , itchiness - symptoms worsen - no improvement in symptom after 5 - 6 days of use Ask doctor the people who - is being treated by a physician or dentist - have severe erosion inside the mouth - is patient or family member having allergy - have history of allergic reaction to medicine If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
When using this product - if used while inhaling , the medicine may enter bronchial tube or lung , so face the nozzle to affected area in the throat , say ‘ ah ’ while spraying .
- use it for spraying in the throat , but do not take it internally .
for use in children , use under parent or guardian ’ s instruction and supervision .
- Be careful not to get the medicine in the eyes .
If it does , immediately wash with water , and consult an ophthalmologist .
- After using this medicine , alcohol may be detected above the concentration for drunk driving for a certain amount of time , so please avoid using it while driving Directions • Pull the nozzle cap forward to remove • Face the nozzle and spray moderate amount to the affected area multiple times a day • Close the nozzle cap to store Inactive ingredients Soluble Azulene , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , L - Menthol , Ethanol , Polypropylene Glycol , Citric Acid Hydrate , Sodium Citrate Hydrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Banana Essence S , Purified Water Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away Trofresh Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
