DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , and nearly odorless liquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C31H46O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEPHYTON [ 1 ] ( Phytonadione ) tablets containing 5 mg of phytonadione are yellow , compressed tablets , scored on one side .
Inactive ingredients are acacia , calcium phosphate , colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , starch , and talc .
[ 1 ] Registered trademark of ATON PHARMA , INC . COPYRIGHT © 2008 ATON PHARMA , INC . All rights reserved [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MEPHYTON tablets possess the same type and degree of activity as does naturally - occurring vitamin K , which is necessary for the production via the liver of active prothrombin ( factor II ) , proconvertin ( factor VII ) , plasma thromboplastin component ( factor IX ) , and Stuart factor ( factor X ) .
The prothrombin test is sensitive to the levels of three of these four factors – II , VII , and X . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the posttranslational carboxylation of multiple , specific , peptidebound glutamic acid residues in inactive hepatic precursors of factors II , VII , IX , and X .
The resulting gammacarboxyglutamic acid residues convert the precursors into active coagulation factors that are subsequently secreted by liver cells into the blood .
Oral phytonadione is adequately absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract only if bile salts are present .
After absorption , phytonadione is initially concentrated in the liver , but the concentration declines rapidly .
Very little vitamin K accumulates in tissues .
Little is known about the metabolic fate of vitamin K . Almost no free unmetabolized vitamin K appears in bile or urine .
In normal animals and humans , phytonadione is virtually devoid of pharmacodynamic activity .
However , in animals and humans deficient in vitamin K , the pharmacological action of vitamin K is related to its normal physiological function ; that is , to promote the hepatic biosynthesis of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors .
MEPHYTON tablets generally exert their effect within 6 to 10 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE MEPHYTON is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity .
MEPHYTON tablets are indicated in : • – anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • – hypoprothrombinemia secondary to antibacterial therapy ; • – hypoprothrombinemia secondary to administration of salicylates ; • – hypoprothrombinemia secondary to obstructive jaundice or biliary fistulas but only if bile salts are administered concurrently , since otherwise the oral vitamin K will not be absorbed .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione .
Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin .
When vitamin K1 is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with vitamin K1 may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Repeated large doses of vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to vitamin K may indicate a congenital coagulation defect or that the condition being treated is unresponsive to vitamin K . PRECAUTIONS General Vitamin K1 is fairly rapidly degraded by light ; therefore , always protect MEPHYTON from light .
Store MEPHYTON in closed original carton until contents have been used .
( See also HOW SUPPLIED , Storage . )
Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants may result , especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used .
If relatively large doses have been employed , it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin - depressing anticoagulant , or to use one which acts on a different principle , such as heparin sodium .
Laboratory Tests Prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility have not been performed with MEPHYTON .
MEPHYTON at concentrations up to 2000 mcg / plate with or without metabolic activation , was negative in the Ames microbial mutagen test .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with MEPHYTON .
It is also not known whether MEPHYTON can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
MEPHYTON should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established with MEPHYTON .
Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in newborns , particularly in premature infants , have been reported with vitamin K . Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MEPHYTON is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of MEPHYTON did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid reactions and deaths have been reported following parenteral administration .
The majority of these reported events occurred following intravenous administration .
Transient " flushing sensations " and " peculiar " sensations of taste have been observed with parenteral phytonadione , as well as rare instances of dizziness , rapid and weak pulse , profuse sweating , brief hypotension , dyspnea , and cyanosis .
Hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the newborn following administration of parenteral phytonadione .
This has occurred rarely and primarily with doses above those recommended .
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous and oral LD50s in the mouse are approximately 1 . 17 g / kg and greater than 24 . 18 g / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION MEPHYTON Summary of Dosage Guidelines ( See circular text for details ) Adults Initial Dosage Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency ( caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ) 2 . 5 mg - 10 mg or up to 25 mg ( rarely 50 mg ) Hypoprothrombinemia due to other causes ( Antibiotics ; Salicylates or other drugs ; Factors limiting absorption or synthesis ) 2 . 5 mg - 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin times caused by oral anticoagulant therapy – 2 . 5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended .
In rare instances 50 mg may be required , Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition .
( See WARNINGS . )
If , in 12 to 48 hours after oral administration , the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily , the dose should be repeated .
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults If possible , discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms ( such as salicylates , antibiotics ) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent MEPHYTON .
The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of MEPHYTON is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs .
A dosage of 2 . 5 to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) is recommended , the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained .
The oral route should be avoided when the clinical disorder would prevent proper absorption .
Bile salts must be given with the tablets when the endogenous supply of bile to the gastrointestinal tract is deficient .
HOW SUPPLIED Tablets MEPHYTON , 5 mg vitamin K1 , are yellow , round , scored , compressed tablets , coded ATON 405 on one side and MEPHYTON on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 05 NDC 54868 - 5438 - 1 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5438 - 0 Storage Store in tightly closed original container at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Always protect MEPHYTON from light .
Store in tightly closed original container and carton until contents have been used .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General . )
Distributed by : ATON PHARMA Lawrenceville NJ 08648 USA Manufactured by : Draxis Specialty Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Kirkland , Quebec H9H 4J4 Issued January 2008 201290 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Tablet Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEPHYTON ® ( PHYTONADIONE ) Tablets Each tablet contains : 5 mg Phytonadione Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
