DESCRIPTION The barbiturates are nonselective central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants that are primarily used as sedative - hypnotics .
In subhypnotic doses , they are also used as anticonvulsants .
The barbiturates and their sodium salts are subject to control under the Federal Controlled Substances Act .
Phenobarbital is a barbituric acid derivative and occurs as white , odorless , small crystals or crystalline powder that is very slightly soluble in water ; soluble in alcohol , in ether , and in solutions of fixed alkali hydroxides and carbonates ; sparingly soluble in chloroform .
Phenobarbital is 5 - ethyl - 5 - phenylbarbituric acid and has the empirical formula C12H12N2O3 .
Its molecular weight is 232 . 24 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenobarbital is a substituted pyrimidine derivative in which the basic structure is barbituric acid , a substance that has no CNS activity .
CNS activity is obtained by substituting alkyl , alkenyl , or aryl groups on the pyrimidine ring .
Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) contains 20 . 0 mg phenobarbital .
The elixir also contains FD & C Red # 40 , flavors , glycerin , purified water , sucrose , and alcohol 15 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barbiturates are capable of producing all levels of CNS mood alteration , from excitation to mild sedation , hypnosis , and deep coma .
Overdosage can produce death .
In high enough therapeutic doses , barbiturates induce anesthesia .
Barbiturates depress the sensory cortex , decrease motor activity , alter cerebellar function , and produce drowsiness , sedation , and hypnosis .
Barbiturate - induced sleep differs from physiologic sleep .
Sleep laboratory studies have demonstrated that barbiturates reduce the amount of time spent in the rapid eye movement ( REM ) phase of sleep or the dreaming stage .
Also , Stages III and IV sleep are decreased .
Following abrupt cessation of barbiturates used regularly , patients may experience markedly increased dreaming , nightmares , and / or insomnia .
Therefore , withdrawal of a single therapeutic dose over 5 or 6 days has been recommended to lessen the REM rebound and disturbed sleep that contribute to the drug withdrawal syndrome ( for example , the dose should be decreased from 3 to 2 doses / day for 1 week ) .
In studies , secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium have been found to lose most of their effectiveness for both inducing and maintaining sleep by the end of 2 weeks of continued drug administration even with the use of multiple doses .
As with secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium , other barbiturates ( including amobarbital ) might be expected to lose their effectiveness for inducing and maintaining sleep after about 2 weeks .
The short - , intermediate - , and to a lesser degree , long - acting barbiturates have been widely prescribed for treating insomnia .
Although the clinical literature abounds with claims that the short - acting barbiturates are superior for producing sleep whereas the intermediate - acting compounds are more effective in maintaining sleep , controlled studies have failed to demonstrate these differential effects .
Therefore , as sleep medications , the barbiturates are of limited value beyond short - term use .
Barbiturates have little analgesic action at subanesthetic doses .
Rather , in subanesthetic doses , these drugs may increase the reaction to painful stimuli .
All barbiturates exhibit anticonvulsant activity in anesthetic doses .
However , of the drugs in this class , only phenobarbital , mephobarbital , and metharbital are effective as oral anticonvulsants in subhypnotic doses .
Barbiturates are respiratory depressants , and the degree of respiratory depression is dependent upon the dose .
With hypnotic doses , respiratory depression produced by barbiturates is similar to that which occurs during physiologic sleep and is accompanied by a slight decrease in blood pressure and heart rate .
Studies in laboratory animals have shown that barbiturates cause reduction in the tone and contractility of the uterus , ureters , and urinary bladder .
However , concentrations of the drugs required to produce this effect in humans are not reached with sedative - hypnotic doses .
Barbiturates do not impair the normal hepatic function but have been shown to induce liver microsomal enzymes , thus increasing and / or altering the metabolism of barbiturates and other drugs ( see Drug Interactionsunder PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pharmacokinetics Barbiturates are absorbed in varying degrees following oral or parenteral administration .
The salts are more rapidly absorbed than are the acids .
The rate of absorption is increased if the sodium salt is ingested as a dilute solution or taken on an empty stomach .
Duration of action , which is related to the rate at which the barbiturates are redistributed throughout the body , varies among persons and in the same person from time to time .
Phenobarbital is classified as a long - acting barbiturate when taken orally .
Its onset of action is 1 hour or longer , and its duration of action ranges from 10 to 12 hours .
Barbiturates are weak acids that are absorbed and rapidly distributed to all tissues and fluids , with high concentrations in the brain , liver , and kidneys .
Lipid solubility of the barbiturates is the dominant factor in their distribution within the body .
The more lipid soluble the barbiturate , the more rapidly it penetrates all tissues of the body .
Barbiturates are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree with the degree of binding increasing directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Phenobarbital has the lowest lipid solubility , lowest plasma binding , lowest brain protein binding , the longest delay in onset of activity , and the longest duration of action .
The plasma half - life for phenobarbital in adults ranges between 53 and 118 hours with a mean of 79 hours .
The plasma half - life for phenobarbital in children and newborns ( less than 48 hours old ) ranges between 60 to 180 hours with a mean of 110 hours .
Barbiturates are metabolized primarily by the hepatic microsomal enzyme system , and the metabolic products are excreted in the urine , and , less commonly , in the feces .
Approximately 25 % to 50 % of a dose of phenobarbital is eliminated unchanged in the urine .
The excretion of unmetabolized barbiturate is one feature that distinguishes the long - acting category from those belonging to other categories , which are almost entirely metabolized .
The inactive metabolites of the barbiturates are excreted as conjugates of glucuronic acid .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Sedative • Anticonvulsant – For the treatment of generalized and partial seizures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenobarbital is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to barbiturates , in patients with a history of manifest or latent porphyria , and in patients with marked impairment of liver function or respiratory disease in which dyspnea or obstruction is evident .
WARNINGS • Habit Forming – Phenobarbital may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( seeDRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE and Pharmacokineticsunder CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Patients who have psychologic dependence on barbiturates may increase the dosage or decrease the dosage interval without consulting a physician and may subsequently develop a physical dependence on barbiturates .
In order to minimize the possibility of overdosage or the development of dependence , the prescribing and dispensing of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates should be limited to the amount required for the interval until the next appointment .
Abrupt cessation after prolonged use in a person who is dependent on the drug may result in withdrawal symptoms , including delirium , convulsions , and possibly death .
Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive doses over long periods of time ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
• Acute or Chronic Pain – Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain , because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked .
However , the use of barbiturates as sedatives in the postoperative surgical period and as adjuncts to cancer chemotherapy is well established .
• Usage in Pregnancy – Barbiturates can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman .
Retrospective , case - controlled studies have suggested a connection between the maternal consumption of barbiturates and a higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities .
Barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues ; the highest concentrations are found in the placenta , fetal liver , and brain .
Fetal blood levels approach maternal blood levels following parenteral administration .
Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to women who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
If phenobarbital is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
• Usage in Children – Phenobarbital has been reported to be associated with cognitive deficits in children taking it for complicated febrile seizures .
• Synergistic Effects – The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects .
PRECAUTIONS General Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Barbiturates should be administered with caution , if at all , to patients who are mentally depressed , have suicidal tendencies , or have a history of drug abuse .
Elderly or debilitated patients may react to barbiturates with marked excitement , depression , or confusion .
In some persons , especially children , barbiturates repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression .
In patients with hepatic damage , barbiturates should be administered with caution and initially in reduced doses .
Barbiturates should not be administered to patients showing the premonitory signs of hepatic coma .
The systemic effects of exogenous and endogenous corticosteroids may be diminished by phenobarbital .
Thus , this product should be administered with caution to patients with borderline hypoadrenal function , regardless of whether it is of pituitary or of primary adrenal origin .
Information for Patients The following information and instructions should be given to patients receiving barbiturates .
• The use of barbiturates carries with it an associated risk of psychological and / or physical dependence .
The patient should be warned against increasing the dose of the drug without consulting a physician .
• Barbiturates may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
• Alcohol should not be consumed while taking barbiturates .
The concurrent use of the barbiturates with other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , narcotics , tranquilizers , and antihistamines ) may result in additional CNS - depressant effects .
Laboratory Tests Prolonged therapy with barbiturates should be accompanied by periodic laboratory evaluation of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal , and hepatic systems ( seeGeneralunder PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital .
However , the application of this data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies .
• Anticoagulants – Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time .
Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants ( e . g . , warfarin , acenocoumarol , dicumarol , and phenprocoumon ) .
Patients stabilized on anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
• Corticosteroids – Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids , probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes .
Patients stabilized on corticosteroid therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
• Griseofulvin – Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin , thus decreasing its blood level .
The effect of the resultant decreased blood levels of griseofulvin on therapeutic response has not been established .
However , it would be preferable to avoid concomitant administration of these drugs .
• Doxycycline – Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half - life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued .
This mechanism is probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes that metabolize the antibiotic .
If phenobarbital and doxycycline are administered concurrently , the clinical response to doxycycline should be monitored closely .
• Phenytoin , Sodium Valproate , Valproic Acid – The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable .
Some investigators report an accelerating effect , whereas others report no effect .
Because the effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin is not predictable , phenytoin and barbiturate blood levels should be monitored more frequently if these drugs are given concurrently .
Sodium valproate and valproic acid increase the phenobarbital serum levels ; therefore , phenobarbital blood levels should be closely monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made as clinically indicated .
• CNS Depressants – The concomitant use of other CNS depressants , including other sedatives or hypnotics , antihistamines , tranquilizers , or alcohol , may produce additive depressant effects .
• Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) – MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates , probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited .
• Estradiol , Estrone , Progesterone , and other Steroidal Hormones – Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism .
There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs ( e . g . , phenobarbital ) who become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives .
An alternate contraceptive method might be suggested to women taking phenobarbital .
Carcinogenesis • Animal Data .
Phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in mice and rats after lifetime administration .
In mice , it produced benign and malignant liver cell tumors .
In rats , benign liver cell tumors were observed very late in life .
• Human Data – In a 29 - year epidemiologic study of 9 , 136 patients who were treated on an anticonvulsant protocol that included phenobarbital , results indicated a higher than normal incidence of hepatic carcinoma .
Previously , some of these patients had been treated with thorotrast , a drug which is known to produce hepatic carcinomas .
Thus , this study did not provide sufficient evidence that phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in humans .
A retrospective study of 84 children with brain tumors matched to 73 normal controls and 78 cancer controls ( malignant disease other than brain tumors ) suggested an association between exposure to barbiturates prenatally and an increased incidence of brain tumors .
Usage in Pregnancy • Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category D – See Usage in Pregnancy under WARNINGS .
• Nonteratogenic Effects – Reports of infants suffering from long - term barbiturate exposure in utero included the acute withdrawal syndrome of seizures and hyperirritability from birth to a delayed onset of up to 14 days ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Labor and Delivery Hypnotic doses of barbiturates do not appear to impair uterine activity significantly during labor .
Full anesthetic doses of barbiturates decrease the force and frequency of uterine contractions .
Administration of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates to the mother during labor may result in respiratory depression in the newborn .
Premature infants are particularly susceptible to the depressant effects of barbiturates .
If barbiturates are used during labor and delivery , resuscitation equipment should be available .
Data are not available to evaluate the effect of barbiturates when forceps delivery or other intervention is necessary or to determine the effect of barbiturates on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when phenobarbital is administered to a nursing woman , because small amounts of barbiturates are excreted in the milk .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : CNS Depression – Residual sedation or " hangover " , drowsiness , lethargy , and vertigo .
Emotional disturbances and phobias may be accentuated .
In some persons , barbiturates such as phenobarbital repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression , and the patient may appear to be inebriated .
Irritability and hyperactivity can occur in children .
Like other nonanalgesic hypnotic drugs , barbiturates such as phenobarbital , when given in the presence of pain , may cause restlessness , excitement , and even delirium .
Rarely , the use of barbiturates results in the localized or diffuse myalgic , neuralgic , or arthritic pain , especially in psychoneurotic patients with insomnia .
The pain may appear in paroxysms , is most intense in the early morning hours , and is most frequently located in the region of the neck , shoulder girdle , and upper limbs .
Symptoms may last for days after the drug is discontinued .
Respiratory / Circulatory – Respiratory depression , apnea , circulatory collapse .
Allergic – Acquired hypersensitivity to barbiturates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma , urticaria , angioedema , and similar conditions .
Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling , particularly of the eyelids , cheeks or lips , and erythematous dermatitis .
Rarely , exfoliative dermatitis ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal .
The skin eruption may be associated with fever , delirium , and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs .
In a few cases , megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital .
Other – Nausea and vomiting ; headache , osteomalacia .
The following adverse reactions and their incidence were compiled from surveillance of thousands of hospitalized patients who received barbiturates .
Because such patients may be less aware of the milder adverse effects of barbiturates , the incidence of these reactions may be somewhat higher in fully ambulatory patients .
More than 1 in 100 Patients The most common adverse reaction , estimated to occur at a rate of 1 to 3 patients per 100 , is : Nervous System : Somnolence Less than 1 in 100 Patients Adverse reactions estimated to occur at a rate of less than 1 in 100 patients are listed below , grouped by organ system and by decreasing order of occurrence : Nervous System : Agitation , confusion , hyperkinesia , ataxia , CNS depression , nightmares , nervousness , psychiatric disturbance , hallucinations , insomnia , anxiety , dizziness , abnormality in thinking .
Respiratory System : Hypoventilation , apnea Cardiovascular System : Bradycardia , hypotension , syncope Digestive System : Nausea , vomiting , constipation Other Reported Reactions : Headache , injection site reactions , hypersensitivity reactions ( angioedema , skin rashes , exfoliative dermatitis ) , fever , liver damage , megaloblastic anemia following chronic phenobarbital use .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance – Phenobarbital is a Schedule IV drug .
Dependence – Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur , especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
Daily administrations in excess of 400 mg of pentobarbital or secobarbital for approximately 90 days is likely to produce some degree of physical dependence .
A dosage of 600 to 800 mg taken for at least 35 days is sufficient to produce withdrawal seizures .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1 . 5 g .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than twofold .
As this occurs , the margin between intoxicating dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
Symptoms of acute intoxication with barbiturates include unsteady gait , slurred speech , and sustained nystagmus .
Mental signs of chronic intoxication include confusion , poor judgment , irritability , insomnia , and somatic complaints .
Symptoms of barbiturate dependence are similar to those of chronic alcoholism .
If an individual appears to be intoxicated with alcohol to a degree that is radically disproportionate to the amount of alcohol in his or her blood , the use of barbiturates should be suspected .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
The symptoms of barbiturate withdrawal can be severe and may cause death .
Minor withdrawal symptoms may appear 8 to 12 hours after the last dose of a barbiturate .
These symptoms usually appear in the following order : anxiety , muscle twitching , tremor of hands and fingers , progressive weakness , dizziness , distortion in visual perception , nausea , vomiting , insomnia , and orthostatic hypotension .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of barbiturates .
The intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Individuals susceptible to barbiturate abuse and dependence include alcoholics and opiate abusers as well as other sedative - hypnotic and amphetamine abusers .
Drug dependence on barbiturates arises from repeated administration of a barbiturate or agent with barbiturate - like effect on a continuous basis , generally in amounts exceeding therapeutic dose levels .
The characteristics of drug dependence on barbiturates include : ( a ) a strong desire or need to continue taking the drug ; ( b ) a tendency to increase the dose ; ( c ) a psychic dependence on the effects of the drug related to subjective and individual appreciation of those effects ; and ( d ) a physical dependence on the effects of the drug , requiring its presence for maintenance of homeostasis and resulting in a definite , characteristic and self - limited abstinence syndrome when the drug is withdrawn .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
In all cases , withdrawal requires an extended period of time .
One method involves substituting a 30 - mg dose of phenobarbital for each 100 - to 200 - mg dose of barbiturate that the patient has been taking .
The total daily amount of phenobarbital is then administered in 3 or 4 divided doses , not to exceed 600 mg daily .
If signs of withdrawal occur on the first day of treatment , a loading dose of 100 to 200 mg of phenobarbital may be administered IM in addition to the oral dose .
After stabilization on phenobarbital , the total daily dose is decreased by 30 mg / day as long as withdrawal is proceeding smoothly .
A modification of this regimen involves initiating treatment at the patient ’ s regular dosage level and decreasing the daily dosage by 10 % if tolerated by the patient .
Infants who are physically dependent on barbiturates may be given phenobarbital , 3 to 10 mg / kg / day .
After withdrawal symptoms ( hyperactivity , disturbed sleep , tremors , and hyperreflexia ) are relieved , the dosage of phenobarbital should be gradually decreased and completely withdrawn over a 2 - week period .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms – The onset of symptoms following a toxic oral exposure to phenobarbital may not occur until several hours following ingestion .
The toxic dose of barbiturates varies considerably .
In general , an oral dose of 1 g of most barbiturates produces serious poisoning in an adult .
Death commonly occurs after 2 to 10 g of ingested barbiturate .
The sedated , therapeutic blood levels of phenobarbital range between 5 to 40 mcg / mL ; the usual lethal blood level ranges from 100 to 200 mcg / mL .
Barbiturate intoxication may be confused with alcoholism , bromide intoxication , and various neurologic disorders .
Potential tolerance must be considered when evaluating significance of dose and plasma concentration .
The manifestations of a long - acting barbiturate in overdose include nystagmus , ataxia , CNS depression , respiratory depression , hypothermia , and hypotension .
Other findings may include absent or depressed reflexes and erythematous or hemorrhagic blisters ( primarily at pressure points ) .
Following massive exposure to phenobarbital , pulmonary edema , circulatory collapse with loss of peripheral vascular tone , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
In extreme overdose , all electrical activity in the brain may cease , in which case a " flat " EEG normally equated with clinical death should not be accepted .
This effect is fully reversible unless hypoxic damage occurs .
Consideration should be given to the possibility of barbiturate intoxication even in situations that appear to involve trauma .
Complications such as pneumonia , pulmonary edema , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , and renal failure may occur .
Uremia may increase CNS sensitivity to barbiturates if renal function is impaired .
Differential diagnosis should include hypoglycemia , head trauma , cerebrovascular accidents , convulsive states and diabetic coma .
Treatment – To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Protect the patient ’ s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Alkalinization of urine hastens phenobarbital excretion , but dialysis and hemoperfusion are more effective and cause less troublesome alterations in electrolyte equilibrium .
If the patient has chronically abused sedatives , withdrawal reactions may be manifest following acute overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of phenobarbital must be individualized with full knowledge of its particular characteristics .
Factors of consideration are the patient ’ s age , weight , and condition .
Sedation : For sedation , the drug may be administered in single doses of 30 to 120 mg repeated at intervals ; frequency will be determined by the patient ’ s response .
It is generally considered that no more than 400 mg of phenobarbital should be administered during a 24 - hour period .
Adults : Daytime Sedation : 30 to 120 mg daily in 2 to 3 divided doses .
Oral Hypnotic : 100 to 200 mg Anticonvulsant Use – Clinical laboratory reference values should be used to determine the therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum .
To achieve the blood levels considered therapeutic in pediatric patients , higher per - kilogram dosages are generally necessary for phenobarbital and most other anticonvulsants .
In pediatric patients and infants , phenobarbital at a loading dose of 15 to 20 mg / kg produces blood levels of about 20 mcg / mL shortly after administration .
Phenobarbital has been used in the treatment and prophylaxis of febrile seizures .
However , it has not been established that prevention of febrile seizures influences the subsequent development of epilepsy .
Adults : 60 to 200 mg / day .
Pediatric Patients : 3 to 6 mg / kg / day .
Special Patient Population – Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates .
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease .
HOW SUPPLIED 20 . 0 mg / 5 mL in a pint bottle .
Contains alcohol , 15 % Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Keep tightly closed .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 I04 / 18 OS1508H - 01 - 1 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
