WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS • Thyroid hormones , including CYTOMEL , either alone or with other therapeutic agents , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• In euthyroid patients , doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction .
• Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity , particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Thyroid hormones , including CYTOMEL , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• Doses beyond the range of daily hormonal requirements may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity ( 6 , 7 . 7 , 10 ) .
Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 , 1 . 3 ) 12 / 2018 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 , 2 . 6 ) 12 / 2018 Contraindications ( 4 ) 12 / 2018 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 12 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CYTOMEL is an L - triiodothyronine ( T3 ) indicated for : • Hypothyroidism : As replacement in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism ( 1 . 1 ) • Pituitary Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone ( TSH ) Suppression : As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of well - differentiated thyroid cancer ( 1 . 2 ) • Thyroid Suppression Test : As a diagnostic agent in suppression tests to differentiate suspected mild hyperthyroidism or thyroid gland autonomy ( 1 . 3 ) Limitations of Use : • - Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients .
( 1 ) • - Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis .
( 1 ) 1 . 1 Hypothyroidism CYTOMEL is indicated as a replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
1 . 2 Pituitary Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone ( TSH ) Suppression CYTOMEL is indicated as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
1 . 3 Thyroid Suppression Test CYTOMEL is indicated as a diagnostic agent in suppression tests to differentiate suspected mild hyperthyroidism or thyroid gland autonomy .
Limitations of Use • CYTOMEL is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with CYTOMEL may induce hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• CYTOMEL is not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer CYTOMEL orally once daily and individual dosage according to patient response and laboratory findings ( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for recommended dosage for hypothyroidism ( 2 . 2 ) TSH suppression in well - differentiated thyroid cancer ( 2 . 3 ) and for thyroid suppression test ( 2 . 4 ) • When switching a patient to CYTOMEL , discontinue levothyroxine therapy and initiate CYTOMEL at a low dosage .
Gradually increase the dose according to the patient ' s response ( 2 . 5 ) • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and T3 levels as well as clinical status ( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 General Principles of Dosing The dose of CYTOMEL for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including : the patient ' s age , body weight , cardiovascular status , concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient ' s clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Administer CYTOMEL tablets orally once daily .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Hypothyroidism Adults The recommended starting dosage is 25 mcg orally once daily .
Increase the dose by 25 mcg daily every 1 or 2 weeks , if needed .
The usual maintenance dose is 25 mcg to 75 mcg once daily .
For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiac disease , start with CYTOMEL 5 mcg once daily and increase by 5 mcg increments at the recommended intervals .
Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of CYTOMEL dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy .
Use the serum T3 level to monitor adequacy of therapy in this patient population .
Pediatric Patients The recommended starting dosage is 5 mcg once daily , with a 5 mcg increase every 3 to 4 days until the desired response is achieved .
Infants a few months old may require 20 mcg once daily for maintenance .
At 1 year of age , 50 mcg once daily may be required .
Above 3 years of age , the full adult dosage may be necessary [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Newborns ( 0 to 3 months ) at Risk for Cardiac Failure : Consider a lower starting dose in infants at risk for cardiac failure .
Increase the dose as needed based on clinical and laboratory response .
Pediatric Patients at Risk for Hyperactivity : To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in pediatric patients , start at one - fourth the recommended full replacement dose , and increase on a weekly basis by one - fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached .
Pregnancy Pre - existing Hypothyroidism : Thyroid hormone dose requirements may increase during pregnancy .
Measure serum TSH and free - T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and , at minimum , during each trimester of pregnancy .
In patients with primary hypothyroidism , maintain serum TSH in the trimester - specific reference range .
For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester - specific range , increase the dose of thyroid hormone and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester - specific range .
Reduce thyroid hormone dosage to pre - pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure thyroid hormone dose is appropriate .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for TSH Suppression in Well - Differentiated Thyroid Cancer The dose of CYTOMEL should target TSH levels within the desired therapeutic range .
This may require higher doses , depending on the target level for TSH suppression .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage for Thyroid Suppression Test The recommended dose is 75 mcg to 100 mcg daily for 7 days , with radioactive iodine uptake being determined before and after the 7 day administration of CYTOMEL .
If thyroid function is normal , the radioiodine uptake will drop significantly after treatment .
A 50 % or greater suppression of uptake indicates a normal thyroid - pituitary axis .
2 . 5 Switching from Levothyroxine to CYTOMEL CYTOMEL has a rapid onset of action and residual effects of the other thyroid preparation may persist for the first several weeks after initiating CYTOMEL therapy .
When switching a patient to CYTOMEL , discontinue levothyroxine therapy and initiate CYTOMEL at a low dosage .
Gradually increase the CYTOMEL dose according to the patient ' s response .
2 . 6 Monitoring TSH and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Levels Assess the adequacy of therapy by periodic assessment of laboratory tests and clinical evaluation .
Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of CYTOMEL may be evidence of inadequate absorption , poor compliance , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism , monitor serum TSH periodically after initiation of the therapy or any change in dose .
To check the immediate response to therapy before the TSH has had a chance to respond or if your patient ' s status needs to be assessed prior to that point , measurement of total T3 would be most appropriate .
In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose , evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient ' s clinical status .
Pediatrics In pediatric patients with hypothyroidism , assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring serum TSH and T3 levels .
For pediatric patients three years of age and older , the recommended monitoring is every 3 to 12 months thereafter , following dose stabilization until growth and puberty are completed .
Poor compliance or abnormal values may necessitate more frequent monitoring .
Perform routine clinical examination , including assessment of development , mental and physical growth , and bone maturation , at regular intervals .
While the general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level , TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary - thyroid feedback .
Failure of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 IU per liter after initiation of CYTOMEL therapy may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy .
Assess compliance , dose of medication administered , and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of CYTOMEL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Secondary and Tertiary Hypothyroidism Monitor serum T3 levels and maintain in the normal range .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets ( round , white to off - white ) available as follows : • 5 mcg : debossed with KPI on one side and 115 on the other side • 25 mcg : scored on one side and debossed with KPI and 116 on the other side • 50 mcg : scored on one side and debossed with KPI and 117 on the other side Tablets : 5 mcg , 25 mcg , 50 mcg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CYTOMEL is contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Uncorrected adrenal cortical insufficiency ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiac adverse reactions in the elderly and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease : Initiate CYTOMEL at less than the full replacement dose because of the increased risk of cardiac adverse reactions , including atrial fibrillation ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 5 ) • Myxedema coma : Do not use oral thyroid hormone drug products to treat myxedema coma .
( 5 . 2 ) • Acute adrenal crisis in patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency : Treat with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of CYTOMEL treatment ( 5 . 3 ) • Prevention of hyperthyroidism or incomplete treatment of hypothyroidism : Proper dose titration and careful monitoring is critical to prevent the persistence of hypothyroidism or the development of hyperthyroidism .
( 5 . 4 ) • Worsening of diabetic control : Therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing thyroid hormone therapy ( 5 . 5 ) • Decreased bone mineral density associated with thyroid hormone over - replacement : Over - replacement can increase bone resorption and decrease bone mineral density .
Give the lowest effective dose ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Overtreatment with thyroid hormone may cause an increase in heart rate , cardiac wall thickness , and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Initiate CYTOMEL therapy in this population at lower doses than those recommended in younger individuals or in patients without cardiac disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor for cardiac arrhythmias during surgical procedures in patients with coronary artery disease receiving suppressive CYTOMEL therapy .
Monitor patients receiving concomitant CYTOMEL and sympathomimetic agents for signs and symptoms of coronary insufficiency .
If cardiovascular symptoms develop or worsen , reduce or withhold the CYTOMEL dose for one week and restart at a lower dose .
5 . 2 Myxedema Coma Myxedema coma is a life - threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism , and may result in unpredictable absorption of thyroid hormone from the gastrointestinal tract .
Use of oral thyroid hormone drug products is not recommended to treat myxedema coma .
Administer thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration to treat myxedema coma .
5 . 3 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids .
Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with CYTOMEL [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Prevention of Hyperthyroidism or Incomplete Treatment of Hypothyroidism CYTOMEL has a narrow therapeutic index .
Over - or undertreatment with CYTOMEL may have negative effects on growth and development , cardiovascular function , bone metabolism , reproductive function , cognitive function , emotional state , gastrointestinal function , and on glucose and lipid metabolism .
Titrate the dose of CYTOMEL carefully and monitor response to titration to avoid these effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Monitor for the presence of drug or food interactions when using CYTOMEL and adjust the dose as necessary [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of thyroid hormone therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing CYTOMEL [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Decreased Bone Mineral Density Associated with Thyroid Hormone Over - Replacement Increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density may occur as a result of thyroid hormone over - replacement , particularly in post - menopausal women .
The increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous , elevations in bone alkaline phosphatase , and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels .
Administer the minimum dose of CYTOMEL that achieves the desired clinical and biochemical response to mitigate against this risk .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with CYTOMEL therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness and cramps Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest Respiratory : dyspnea Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests Dermatologic : hair loss , flushing Endocrine : decreased bone mineral density Reproductive : menstrual irregularities , impaired fertility Most common adverse reactions for CYTOMEL are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage : arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , dyspnea , headache , nervousness , irritability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , increased appetite , weight loss , diarrhea , heat intolerance , menstrual irregularities , and skin rash ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pfizer , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in pediatric patients receiving thyroid replacement therapy .
Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in pediatric patients with resultant compromised adult height .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness and wheezing .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to CYTOMEL ( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to CYTOMEL ( see Tables 1 – 4 ) .
Table 1 : Drugs That May Decrease T3 Absorption ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of CYTOMEL by binding and delaying or preventing absorption , potentially resulting in hypothyroidism .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Bile Acid Sequestrants - Colesevelam - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins - Kayexalate - Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease thyroid hormones absorption .
Administer CYTOMEL at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels .
Table 2 : Drugs That May Alter Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increased free - T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of thyroid hormones , and total and FT4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 3 : Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of Thyroid hormonesPotential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of thyroid hormones , resulting in increased CYTOMEL requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of thyroid hormones .
Table 4 : Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
Actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when a hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( see above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decreased or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of CYTOMEL therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control , especially when CYTOMEL is started , changed , or discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants CYTOMEL increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the CYTOMEL dose is increased .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides CYTOMEL may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and CYTOMEL may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
CYTOMEL may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on CYTOMEL may result in increased CYTOMEL requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and CYTOMEL may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients .
7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and CYTOMEL may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Tyrosine - Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine - kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism .
Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients .
7 . 9 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen - containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy may require the use of higher doses of thyroid hormone ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Experience with liothyronine use in pregnant women , including data from post - marketing studies , have not reported increased rates of major birth defects or miscarriages ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated hypothyroidism in pregnancy .
Since TSH levels may increase during pregnancy , TSH should be monitored and CYTOMEL dosage adjusted during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
There are no animal studies conducted with liothyronine during pregnancy .
CYTOMEL should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of complications , including spontaneous abortion , gestational hypertension , pre - eclampsia , stillbirth , and premature delivery .
Untreated maternal hypothyroidism may have an adverse effect on fetal neurocognitive development .
Dose adjustments during pregnancy and the postpartum period Pregnancy may increase CYTOMEL requirements .
Serum TSH levels should be monitored and the CYTOMEL dosage adjusted during pregnancy .
Since postpartum TSH levels are similar to preconception values , the CYTOMEL dosage should return to the pre - pregnancy dose immediately after delivery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Data Human Data Liothyronine is approved for use as a replacement therapy for hypothyroidism .
Data from post - marketing studies have not reported increased rates of fetal malformations , miscarriages , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes associated with liothyronine use in pregnant women .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published studies report that liothyronine is present in human milk .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of liothyronine on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of liothyronine on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for CYTOMEL and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from CYTOMEL or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The initial dose of CYTOMEL varies with age and body weight .
Dosing adjustments are based on an assessment of the individual patient ' s clinical and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
In pediatric patients in whom a diagnosis of permanent hypothyroidism has not been established , discontinue thyroid hormone for a trial period , but only after the child is at least 3 years of age .
Obtain serum TSH , T4 , and T3 levels at the end of the trial period , and use laboratory test results and clinical assessments to guide diagnosis and treatment , if warranted [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
Congenital Hypothyroidism [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 6 ) ] Rapid restoration of normal serum T4 concentrations is essential for preventing the adverse effects of congenital hypothyroidism on intellectual development as well as on overall physical growth and maturation .
Therefore , initiate thyroid hormone immediately upon diagnosis .
Thyroid hormone is generally continued for life in these patients .
Closely monitor infants during the first 2 weeks of thyroid hormone therapy for cardiac overload , arrhythmias , and aspiration from avid suckling .
Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment or overtreatment .
Undertreatment may have deleterious effects on intellectual development and linear growth .
Overtreatment is associated with craniosynostosis in infants , may adversely affect the tempo of brain maturation , and may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Acquired Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment and overtreatment .
Undertreatment may result in poor school performance due to impaired concentration and slowed mentation and in reduced adult height .
Overtreatment may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature .
Treated children may manifest a period of catch - up growth , which may be adequate in some cases to normalize adult height .
In children with severe or prolonged hypothyroidism , catch - up growth may not be adequate to normalize adult height [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly , initiate CYTOMEL at less than the full replacement dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly patients .
Atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with thyroid hormone overtreatment in the elderly .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , seizure , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Symptoms may not necessarily be evident or may not appear until several days after ingestion .
Reduce the CYTOMEL dose or temporarily discontinued if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
Initiate appropriate supportive treatment as dictated by the patient ' s medical status .
For current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage , contact the National Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org .
11 DESCRIPTION CYTOMEL tablets contain the active ingredient , liothyronine ( L - triiodothyronine or LT3 ) , a synthetic form of a thyroid hormone liothyronine in sodium salt form .
It is chemically designated as L - Tyrosine , O - ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - iodophenyl ) - 3 , 5 - diiodo - , monosodium salt .
The molecular formula , molecular weight and structural formula of liothyronine sodium are given below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CYTOMEL tablets contain liothyronine sodium equivalent to liothyronine in 5 mcg , 25 mcg , and 50 mcg .
Inactive ingredients consist of calcium sulfate , corn starch , gelatin , stearic acid , sucrose and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and L - thyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of activity of liothyronine sodium occurs within a few hours .
Maximum pharmacologic response occurs within 2 or 3 days .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption T3 is almost totally absorbed , 95 percent in 4 hours .
The hormones contained in the natural preparations are absorbed in a manner similar to the synthetic hormones .
Distribution Liothyronine sodium ( T3 ) is not firmly bound to serum protein .
The higher affinity of levothyroxine ( T4 ) for both thyroid - binding globulin and thyroid - binding prealbumin as compared to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) partially explains the higher serum levels and longer half - life of the former hormone .
Both protein - bound hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with minute amounts of free hormone , the latter accounting for the metabolic activity .
Elimination Metabolism The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately 80 % of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 .
T3 is further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Excretion Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged and is eliminated in the feces .
The biological half - life is about 2 – 1 / 2 days .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of liothyronine sodium .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CYTOMEL tablets ( round , white to off - white ) are supplied as follows : Strength Tablet Markings NDC – bottles of 100 5 mcg Debossed with KPI on one side and 115 on the other side 60793 - 115 - 01 25 mcg Scored on one side and debossed with KPI and 116 on the other side 60793 - 116 - 01 50 mcg Scored on one side and debossed with KPI and 117 on the other side 60793 - 117 - 01 Store between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients that CYTOMEL should only be taken as directed by their healthcare provider .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider should they become pregnant or breastfeeding or are thinking of becoming pregnant , while taking CYTOMEL .
Important Information • Inform patients that the liothyronine in CYTOMEL is intended to replace a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
Generally replacement therapy is to be taken for life .
• Inform patients that CYTOMEL should not be used as a primary or adjunctive therapy in a weight control program .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are taking any other medications , including prescription and over - the - counter preparations .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider of any other medical conditions , particularly heart disease , diabetes , clotting disorders , and adrenal or pituitary gland problems , as the dose of medications used to control these other conditions may need to be adjusted while taking CYTOMEL .
If patents are taking anticoagulants ( blood thinners ) , their clotting status should be checked frequently .
• Instruct patients to notify their physician or dentist if they are taking CYTOMEL prior to any surgery .
Adverse Reactions • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they experience any of the following symptoms : rapid or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shortness of breath , leg cramps , headache , nervousness , irritability , sleeplessness , tremors , change in appetite , weight gain or loss , vomiting , diarrhea , excessive sweating , heat intolerance , fever , changes in menstrual periods , hives or skin rash , or any other unusual medical event [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• Inform patients that partial hair loss may occur rarely during the first few months of CYTOMEL therapy ; this is usually temporary [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0683 - 5 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mcg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 60793 - 115 - 01 Pfizer CYTOMEL ® liothyronine sodium tablets 5 mcg 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mcg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 60793 - 116 - 01 Pfizer CYTOMEL ® liothyronine sodium tablets 25 mcg 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mcg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 60793 - 117 - 01 Pfizer CYTOMEL ® liothyronine sodium tablets 50 mcg 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
