1001710105 Rx only Description : Mefloquine hydrochloride is an antimalarial agent available as 250 - mg tablets of mefloquine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 228 . 0 mg of the free base ) for oral administration .
Mefloquine hydrochloride is a 4 - quinolinemethanol derivative with the specific chemical name of ( R * , S * ) - ( ± ) - ( α ) - 2 - piperidinyl - 2 , 8 - bis ( trifluoromethyl ) - 4 - quinolinemethanol hydrochloride .
It is a 2 - aryl substituted chemical structural analog of quinine .
The drug is a white to almost white crystalline compound , slightly soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , poloxamer and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology : Pharmacokinetics : Absorption : The absolute oral bioavailability of mefloquine has not been determined since an intravenous formulation is not available .
The bioavailability of the tablet formation compared with an oral solution was over 85 % .
The presence of food significantly enhances the rate and extent of absorption , leading to about a 40 % increase in bioavailability .
In healthy volunteers , plasma concentrations peak 6 to 24 hours ( median , about 17 hours ) after a single dose of mefloquine .
In a similar group of volunteers , maximum plasma concentrations in µg / L are roughly equivalent to the dose in milligrams ( for example , a single 1000 mg dose produces a maximum concentration of about 1000 µg / L ) .
In healthy volunteers , a dose of 250 mg once weekly , produces maximum steady - state plasma concentrations of 1000 to 2000 µg / L , which are reached after 7 to 10 weeks .
Distribution : In healthy adults , the apparent volume of distribution is approximately 20 L / kg , indicating extensive tissue distribution .
Mefloquine may accumulate in parasitized erythrocytes .
Experiments conducted in vitro with human blood using concentrations between 50 and 1000 mg / mL showed a relatively constant erythrocyte - to - plasma concentration ratio of about 2 to 1 .
The equilibrium reached in less than 30 minutes , was found to be reversible .
Protein binding is about 98 % .
Mefloquine crosses the placenta .
Excretion into breast milk appears to be minimal ( see PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers ) .
Metabolism : Two metabolites have been identified in humans .
The main metabolite , 2 , 8 - bis - trifluoromethyl - 4 - quinoline carboxylic acid , is inactive in Plasmodium falciparum .
In a study in healthy volunteers , the carboxylic acid metabolite appeared in plasma 2 to 4 hours after a single oral dose .
Maximum plasma concentrations , which were about 50 % higher than those of mefloquine , were reached after 2 weeks .
Thereafter , plasma levels of the main metabolite and mefloquine declined at a similar rate .
The area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of the main metabolite was 3 to 5 times larger than that of the parent drug .
The other metabolite , an alcohol , was present in minute quantities only .
Elimination : In several studies in healthy adults , the mean elimination half - life of mefloquine varied between 2 and 4 weeks , with an average of about 3 weeks .
Total clearance , which is essentially hepatic , is in the order of 30 mL / min .
There is evidence that mefloquine is excreted mainly in the bile and feces .
In volunteers , urinary excretion of unchanged mefloquine and its main metabolite under steady - state condition accounted for about 9 % and 4 % of the dose , respectively .
Concentrations of other metabolites could not be measured in the urine .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Clinical Situations : Children and the Elderly : No relevant age - related changes have been observed in the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine .
Therefore , the dosage for children has been extrapolated from the recommended adult dose .
No pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in patients with renal insufficiency since only a small proportion of the drug is eliminated renally .
Mefloquine and its main metabolite are not appreciably removed by hemodialysis .
No special chemoprophylactic dosage adjustments are indicated for dialysis patients to achieve concentrations in plasma similar to those in healthy persons .
Although clearance of mefloquine may increase in late pregnancy , in general , pregnancy has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine .
The pharmacokinetics of mefloquine may be altered in acute malaria .
Pharmacokinetic differences have been observed between various ethnic populations .
In practice , however , these are of minor importance compared with host immune status and sensitivity of the parasite .
During long - term prophylaxis ( > 2 years ) , the trough concentrations and the elimination half - life of mefloquine were similar to those obtained in the same population after 6 months of drug use , which is when they reached steady state .
In vitro and in vivo studies showed no hemolysis associated with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( see ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ) .
Microbiology : Mechanism of Action : Mefloquine is an antimalarial agent which acts as a blood schizonticide .
Its exact mechanism of action is not known .
Activity in Vitro and In Vivo : Mefloquine is active against the erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium species ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
However , the drug has no effect against the exoerythrocytic ( hepatic ) stages of the parasite .
Mefloquine is effective against malaria parasites resistant to chloroquine ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Drug Resistance : Strains of P . falciparum with decreased susceptibility to mefloquine can be selected in vitro or in vivo .
Resistance of P . falciparum to mefloquine has been reported , in areas of multi - drug resistance in South East Asia .
Increased incidences of resistance have also been reported in other parts of the world .
Cross Resistance : Cross - resistance between mefloquine and halofantrine and cross - resistance between mefloquine and quinine have been observed in some regions .
Indications and Usage : Treatment of Acute Malaria Infections : Mefloquine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate acute malaria caused by mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparum ( both chloroquine - susceptible and resistant strains ) or by Plasmodium vivax .
There are insufficient clinical data to document the effect of mefloquine in malaria caused by P . ovale or P . malariae .
Note : Patients with acute P . vivax malaria , treated with mefloquine , are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic ( hepatic phase ) parasites .
To avoid relapse , after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine , patients should subsequently be treated with an 8 - aminoquinoline ( e . g . , primaquine ) .
Prevention of Malaria : Mefloquine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of P . falciparum and P . vivax malaria infections , including prophylaxis of chloroquine - resistant strains of P . falciparum .
Contraindications : Use of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to mefloquine or related compounds ( e . g . , quinine and quinidine ) or to any of the excipients contained in the formulation .
Mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be prescribed for prophylaxis in patients with active depression , a recent history of depression , generalized anxiety disorder , psychosis , or schizophrenia or other major psychiatric disorders , or with a history of convulsions .
Warnings : In case of life - threatening , serious or overwhelming malaria infections due toP .
falciparum , patients should be treated with an intravenous antimalarial drug . Following completion of intravenous treatment , mefloquine may be given to completethe course of therapy .
Data on the use of halofantrine subsequent to administration of mefloquine suggesta significant , potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval of the ECG . Therefore , halofantrine must not be given simultaneously with or subsequent tomefloquine .
No data are available on the use of mefloquine after halofantrine ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Mefloquine may cause psychiatric symptoms in a number of patients , rangingfrom anxiety , paranoia , and depression to hallucinations and psychotic behavior . On occasions , these symptoms have been reported to continue long after mefloquinehas been stopped .
Rare cases of suicidal ideation and suicide have beenreported though no relationship to drug administration has been confirmed .
Tominimize the chances of these adverse events , mefloquine should not be takenfor prophylaxis in patients with active depression or with a recent history ofdepression , generalized anxiety disorder , psychosis , or schizophrenia or othermajor psychiatric disorders .
Mefloquine should be used with caution in patientswith a previous history of depression .
During prophylactic use , if psychiatric symptoms such as acute anxiety , depression , restlessness or confusion occur , these may be considered prodromal to amore serious event .
In these cases , the drug must be discontinued and an alternativemedication should be substituted .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or quinidine may produceelectrocardiographic abnormalities .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or chloroquine may increase the risk of convulsions .
Precautions : General : Hypersensitivity reactions ranging from mild cutaneous events to anaphylaxis cannot be predicted .
In patients with epilepsy , mefloquine may increase the risk of convulsions .
The drug should therefore be prescribed only for curative treatment in such patients and only if there are compelling medical reasons for its use ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Caution should be exercised with regard to activities requiring alertness and fine motor coordination such as driving , piloting aircraft , operating machinery and deep - sea diving , as dizziness , a loss of balance , or other disorders of the central or peripheral nervous system have been reported during and following the use of mefloquine .
These effects may occur after therapy is discontinued due to the long half - life of the drug .
Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients with psychiatric disturbances because mefloquine use has been associated with emotional disturbances ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In patients with impaired liver function the elimination of mefloquine may be prolonged , leading to higher plasma levels .
This drug has been administered for longer than 1 year .
If the drug is to be administered for a prolonged period , periodic evaluations including liver function tests should be performed .
Although retinal abnormalities seen in humans with long - term chloroquine use have not been observed with mefloquine use , long - term feeding of mefloquine to rats resulted in dose - related ocular lesions ( retinal degeneration , retinal edema and lenticular opacity at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day and higher ) ( see ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ) .
Therefore , periodic ophthalmic examinations are recommended .
Parenteral studies in animals show that mefloquine , a myocardial depressant , possesses 20 % of the antifibrillatory action of quinidine and produces 50 % of the increase in the PR interval reported with quinine .
The effect of mefloquine on the compromised cardiovascular system has not been evaluated .
However , transitory and clinically silent ECG alterations have been reported during the use of mefloquine .
Alterations included sinus bradycardia , sinus arrhythmia , first degree AV - block , prolongation of the QTc interval and abnormal T waves ( see also cardiovascular effects under PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse effects in patients with cardiac disease .
Laboratory Tests : Periodic evaluation of hepatic function should be performed during prolonged prophylaxis .
Information for Patients : Medication Guide : As required by law , a Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets Medication Guide is supplied to patients when mefloquine is dispensed .
Patients should be instructed to read the MedGuide when mefloquine is received .
The complete text of the MedGuide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised : • that malaria can be a life - threatening infection in the traveler ; • that mefloquine hydrochloride tablets are being prescribed to help prevent or treat this serious infection ; • that in a small percentage of cases , patients are unable to take this medication because of side effects , and it may be necessary to change medications ; • that when used as prophylaxis , the first dose of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should be taken 1 week prior to arrival in an endemic area ; • that if the patients experience psychiatric symptoms such as acute anxiety , depression , restlessness or confusion , these may be considered prodromal to a more serious event .
In these cases , the drug must be discontinued and an alternative medication should be substituted ; • that no chemoprophylactic regimen is 100 % effective , and protective clothing , insect repellents , and bed nets are important components of malaria prophylaxis ; • to seek medical attention for any febrile illness that occurs after return from a malarious area and to inform their physician that they may have been exposed to malaria .
Drug Interactions : Drug - drug interactions with mefloquine have not been explored in detail .
There is one report of cardiopulmonary arrest , with full recovery , in a patient who was taking a beta blocker ( propranolol ) ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
The effects of mefloquine on the compromised cardiovascular system have not been evaluated .
The benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse effects in patients with cardiac disease .
Because of the danger of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval , halofantrine must not be given simultaneously with or subsequent to mefloquine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and other related compounds ( e . g . , quinine , quinidine and chloroquine ) may produce electrocardiographic abnormalities and increase the risk of convulsions ( see WARNINGS ) .
If these drugs are to be used in the initial treatment of severe malaria , mefloquine administration should be delayed at least 12 hours after the last dose .
There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval .
Clinically significant QTc prolongation has not been found with mefloquine alone .
This appears to be the only clinically relevant interaction of this kind with mefloquine , although theoretically , coadministration of other drugs known to alter cardiac conduction ( e . g . , anti - arrhythmic or beta - adrenergic blocking agents , calcium channel blockers , antihistamines or H1 - blocking agents , tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines ) might also contribute to a prolongation of the QTc interval .
There are no data that conclusively establish whether the concomitant administration of mefloquine and the above listed agents has an effect on cardiac function .
In patients taking an anticonvulsant ( e . g . , valproic acid , carbamazepine , phenobarbital or phenytoin ) , the concomitant use of mefloquine may reduce seizure control by lowering the plasma levels of the anticonvulsant .
Therefore , patients concurrently taking antiseizure medication and mefloquine should have the blood level of their antiseizure medication monitored and the dosage adjusted appropriately ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
When mefloquine is taken concurrently with oral live typhoid vaccines , attenuation of immunization cannot be excluded .
Vaccinations with attenuated live bacteria should therefore be completed at least 3 days before the first dose of mefloquine .
No other drug interactions are known .
Nevertheless , the effects of mefloquine on travelers receiving comedication , particularly diabetics or patients using anticoagulants , should be checked before departure .
In clinical trials , the concomitant administration of sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine did not alter the adverse reaction profile .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : The carcinogenic potential of mefloquine was studied in rats and mice in 2 - year feeding studies at doses of up to 30 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related increases in tumors of any type were noted .
Mutagenesis : The mutagenic potential of mefloquine was studied in a variety of assay systems including : Ames test , a host - mediated assay in mice , fluctuation tests and a mouse micronucleus assay .
Several of these assays were performed with and without prior metabolic activation .
In no instance was evidence obtained for the mutagenicity of mefloquine .
Impairment of Fertility : Fertility studies in rats at doses of 5 , 20 , and 50 mg / kg / day of mefloquine have demonstrated adverse effects on fertility in the male at the high dose of 50 mg / kg / day , and in the female at doses of 20 and 50 mg / kg / day .
Histopathological lesions were noted in the epididymides from male rats at doses of 20 and 50 mg / kg / day .
Administration of 250 mg / week of mefloquine ( base ) in adult males for 22 weeks failed to reveal any deleterious effects on human spermatozoa .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Mefloquine has been demonstrated to be teratogenic in rats and mice at a dose of 100 mg / kg / day .
In rabbits , a high dose of 160 mg / kg / day was embryotoxic and teratogenic , and a dose of 80 mg / kg / day was teratogenic but not embryotoxic .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , clinical experience with mefloquine has not revealed an embryotoxic or teratogenic effect .
Mefloquine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential who are traveling to areas where malaria is endemic should be warned against becoming pregnant .
Women of childbearing potential should also be advised to practice contraception during malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine and for up to 3 months thereafter .
However , in the case of unplanned pregnancy , malaria chemoprophylaxis with mefloquine is not considered an indication for pregnancy termination .
Nursing Mothers : Mefloquine is excreted in human milk in small amounts , the activity of which is unknown .
Based on a study in a few subjects , low concentrations ( 3 % to 4 % ) of mefloquine were excreted in human milk following a dose equivalent to 250 mg of the free base .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from mefloquine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Use of mefloquine to treat acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of mefloquine in adults with additional data from published open - label and comparative trials using mefloquine to treat malaria caused by P . falciparum in patients younger than 16 years of age .
The safety and effectiveness of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
In several studies , the administration of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria was associated with early vomiting in pediatric patients .
Early vomiting was cited in some reports as a possible cause of treatment failure .
If a second dose is not tolerated , the patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of mefloquine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Since electrocardiographic abnormalities have been observed in individuals treated with mefloquine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) and underlying cardiac disease is more prevalent in elderly than in younger patients , the benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse cardiac effects in elderly patients .
Adverse Reactions : Clinical : At the doses used for treatment of acute malaria infections , the symptoms possibly attributable to drug administration cannot be distinguished from those symptoms usually attributable to the disease itself .
Among subjects who received mefloquine for prophylaxis of malaria , the most frequently observed adverse experience was vomiting ( 3 % ) .
Dizziness , syncope , extrasystoles and other complaints affecting less than 1 % were also reported .
Among subjects who received mefloquine for treatment , the most frequently observed adverse experiences included : dizziness , myalgia , nausea , fever , headache , vomiting , chills , diarrhea , skin rash , abdominal pain , fatigue , loss of appetite , and tinnitus .
Those side effects occurring in less than 1 % included bradycardia , hair loss , emotional problems , pruritus , asthenia , transient emotional disturbances and telogen effluvium ( loss of resting hair ) .
Seizures have also been reported .
Two serious adverse reactions were cardiopulmonary arrest in one patient shortly after ingesting a single prophylactic dose of mefloquine while concomitantly using propranolol ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , and encephalopathy of unknown etiology during prophylactic mefloquine administration .
The relationship of encephalopathy to drug administration could not be clearly established .
Postmarketing : Postmarketing surveillance indicates that the same kind of adverse experiences are reported during prophylaxis , as well as acute treatment .
The most frequently reported adverse events are nausea , vomiting , loose stools or diarrhea , abdominal pain , dizziness or vertigo , loss of balance , and neuropsychiatric events such as headache , somnolence , and sleep disorders ( insomnia , abnormal dreams ) .
These are usually mild and may decrease despite continued use .
Occasionally , more severe neuropsychiatric disorders have been reported such as : sensory and motor neuropathies ( including paresthesia , tremor and ataxia ) , convulsions , agitation or restlessness , anxiety , depression , mood changes , panic attacks , forgetfulness , confusion , hallucinations , aggression , psychotic or paranoid reactions and encephalopathy .
Rare cases of suicidal ideation and suicide have been reported though no relationship to drug administration has been confirmed .
Other infrequent adverse events include : Cardiovascular Disorders : circulatory disturbances ( hypotension , hypertension , flushing , syncope ) , chest pain , tachycardia or palpitation , bradycardia , irregular pulse , extrasystoles , A - V block , and other transient cardiac conduction alterations .
Skin Disorders : rash , exanthema , erythema , urticaria , pruritus , edema , hair loss , erythema multiforme , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Musculoskeletal Disorders : muscle weakness , muscle cramps , myalgia , and arthralgia .
Other Symptoms : visual disturbances , vestibular disorders including tinnitus and hearing impairment , dyspnea , asthenia , malaise , fatigue , fever , sweating , chills , dyspepsia and loss of appetite .
Laboratory : The most frequently observed laboratory alterations which could be possibly attributable to drug administration were decreased hematocrit , transient elevation of transaminases , leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
These alterations were observed in patients with acute malaria who received treatment doses of the drug and were attributed to the disease itself .
During prophylactic administration of mefloquine to indigenous populations in malaria - endemic areas , the following occasional alterations in laboratory values were observed : transient elevation of transaminases , leukocytosis or thrombocytopenia .
Because of the long half - life of mefloquine , adverse reactions to mefloquine may occur or persist up to several weeks after the last dose .
Overdosage : In cases of overdosage with mefloquine , the symptoms mentioned under ADVERSE REACTIONS may be more pronounced .
The following procedure is recommended in case of overdosage : Induce vomiting or perform gastric lavage , as appropriate .
Monitor cardiac function ( if possible by ECG ) and neuropsychiatric status for at least 24 hours .
Provide symptomatic and intensive supportive treatment as required , particularly for cardiovascular disturbances .
Dosage and Administration ( see indications and usage ) : Adult Patients : Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in adults caused by P . vivax or mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparum : Five tablets ( 1250 mg ) mefloquine hydrochloride to be given as a single oral dose .
The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz ( 240 mL ) of water .
If a full - treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours , mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be used for retreatment .
An alternative therapy should be used .
Similarly , if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed , mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be used for curative treatment .
Note : Patients with acute P . vivax malaria , treated with mefloquine , are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic ( hepatic phase ) parasites .
To avoid relapse after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine , patients should subsequently be treated with an 8 - aminoquinoline derivative ( e . g . , primaquine ) .
Malaria Prophylaxis : One 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet once weekly .
Prophylactic drug administration should begin 1 week before arrival in an endemic area .
Subsequent weekly doses should be taken regularly , always on the same day of each week , preferably after the main meal .
To reduce the risk of malaria after leaving an endemic area , prophylaxis must be continued for 4 additional weeks to ensure suppressive blood levels of the drug when merozoites emerge from the liver .
Tablets should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz ( 240 mL ) of water .
In certain cases , e . g . , when a traveler is taking other medication , it may be desirable to start prophylaxis 2 to 3 weeks prior to departure , in order to ensure that the combination of drugs is well tolerated ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
When prophylaxis with mefloquine fails , physicians should carefully evaluate which antimalarial to use for therapy .
Pediatric Patients : Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in pediatric patients caused by mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparum : Twenty ( 20 ) to 25 mg / kg body weight .
Splitting the total therapeutic dose into 2 doses taken 6 to 8 hours apart may reduce the occurrence or severity of adverse effects .
Experience with mefloquine hydrochloride tablets in infants less than 3 months old or weighing less than 5 kg is limited .
The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with ample water .
The tablets may be crushed and suspended in a small amount of water , milk or other beverage for administration to small children and other persons unable to swallow them whole .
If a full - treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours , mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be used for retreatment .
An alternative therapy should be used .
Similarly , if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed , mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be used for curative treatment .
In pediatric patients , the administration of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets for the treatment of malaria has been associated with early vomiting .
In some cases , early vomiting has been cited as a possible cause of treatment failure ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
If a significant loss of drug product is observed or suspected because of vomiting , a second full dose of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should be administered to patients who vomit less than 30 minutes after receiving the drug .
If vomiting occurs 30 to 60 minutes after a dose , an additional half - dose should be given .
If vomiting recurs , the patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time .
The safety and effectiveness of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets to treat malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
Malaria Prophylaxis : The following doses have been extrapolated from the recommended adult dose .
Neither the pharmacokinetics , nor the clinical efficacy of these doses have been determined in children owing to the difficulty of acquiring this information in pediatric subjects .
The recommended prophylactic dose of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets is approximately 5 mg / kg body weight once weekly .
One 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet should be taken once weekly in pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg .
In pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg , the weekly dose decreases in proportion to body weight : 30 to 45 kg : 3 / 4 tablet 20 to 30 kg : 1 / 2 tablet 10 to 20 kg : 1 / 4 tablet 5 to 10 kg : 1 / 8 tablet * * Approximate tablet fraction based on a dosage of 5 mg / kg body weight .
Exact doses for children weighing less than 10 kg may best be prepared and dispensed by pharmacists .
Experience with mefloquine hydrochloride tablets in infants less than 3 months old or weighing less than 5 kg is limited .
How Supplied : Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets are available as : 250 mg : White , oval - shaped , flat - faced , beveled - edge , scored tablet containing 250 mg of mefloquine hydrochloride .
Debossed with stylized B171 on the scored side and plain on the other side .
Available in bottle of : 7 tablets NDC 21695 - 449 - 07 25 tablets NDC 21695 - 449 - 25 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY : Ocular lesions were observed in rats fed mefloquine daily for 2 years .
All surviving rats given 30 mg / kg / day had ocular lesions in both eyes characterized by retinal degeneration , opacity of the lens , and retinal edema .
Similar but less severe lesions were observed in 80 % of female and 22 % of male rats fed 12 . 5 mg / kg / day for 2 years .
At doses of 5 mg / kg / day , only corneal lesions were observed .
They occurred in 9 % of rats studied .
Medication Guide Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets to Prevent Malaria This Medication Guide is intended only for travelers who are taking mefloquinehydrochloride tablets ( mefloquine ) to prevent malaria .
The information may not apply to patients who are sick with malaria and who are taking mefloquine to treat malaria .
An information wallet card is provided at the end of this Medication Guide .
Cut it out and carry it with you when you are taking mefloquine .
This Medication Guide was revised in September 2003 .
Please read it before you start taking mefloquine and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your prescriber ( doctor or other health care provider ) about mefloquine and malaria prevention .
Only you and your prescriber can decide if mefloquine is right for you .
If you cannot take mefloquine , you may be able to take a different medicine to prevent malaria .
What is the most important information I should know about Mefloquine ?
• Take Mefloquine exactly as prescribed to prevent malaria .
Malaria is an infection that can cause death , and is spread to humans through mosquito bites .
If you travel to parts of the world where the mosquitoes carry the malaria parasite , you must take a malaria prevention medicine .
Mefloquine is one of a small number of medications approved to prevent and to treat malaria .
If taken correctly , mefloquine is effective at preventing malaria but , like all medications , it may produce side effects in some patients .
• Mefloquine can rarely cause serious mental problems in some patients .
The most frequently reported side effects with mefloquine , such as nausea , difficulty sleeping , and bad dreams are usually mild and do not cause people to stop taking the medicine .
However , people taking mefloquine occasionally experience severe anxiety , feelings that people are against them , hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not there , for example ) , depression , unusual behavior , or feeling disoriented .
There have been reports that in some patients these side effects continue after mefloquine is stopped .
Some patients taking mefloquine think about killing themselves , and there have been rare reports of suicides .
It is not known whether mefloquine was responsible for these suicides .
• You need to take malaria prevention medicine before you travel to a malariaarea , while you are in a malaria area , and after you return from a malaria area .
Medicines approved in the United States for malaria prevention include mefloquine , doxycycline , atovaquone / proguanil , hydroxychloroquine , and chloroquine .
Not all of these drugs work equally as well in all areas of the world where there is malaria .
The chloroquines , for example , do not work in areas where the malaria parasite has developed resistance to chloroquine .
Mefloquine may be effective against malaria that is resistant to chloroquine or other drugs .
All drugs to treat malaria have side effects that are different for each one .
For example , some may make your skin more sensitive to sunlight ( mefloquine does not do this ) .
However , if you use mefloquine to prevent malaria and you develop a sudden onset of anxiety , depression , restlessness , confusion ( possible signs of more serious mental problems ) , or you develop other serious side effects , contact a doctor or other healthcare provider .
It may be necessary to stop taking mefloquine and use another malaria prevention medicine instead .
If you can ’ t get another medicine , leave the malaria area .
However , be aware that leaving the malaria area may not protect you from getting malaria .
You still need to take a malaria prevention medicine .
Who should not take Mefloquine ?
Do not take mefloquine to prevent malaria if you • have depression or had depression recently • have had recent mental illness or problems , including anxiety disorder , schizophrenia ( a severe type of mental illness ) , or psychosis ( losing touch with reality ) • have or had seizures ( epilepsy or convulsions ) • are allergic to quinine or quinidine ( medicines related to mefloquine ) Tell your prescriber about all your medical conditions .
Mefloquine may not be right for you if you have certain conditions , especially the ones listed below : • Heart disease .
Mefloquine may not be right for you .
• Pregnancy .
Tell your prescriber if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is dangerous for the mother and for the unborn baby ( fetus ) to get malaria during pregnancy .
Therefore , ask your prescriber if you should take mefloquine or another medicine to prevent malaria while you are pregnant .
• Breast feeding .
Mefloquine can pass through your milk and may harm the baby .
Therefore , ask your prescriber whether you will need to stop breast feeding or use another medicine .
• Liver problems .
Tell your prescriber about all the medicines you take , including prescription andnon - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some medicines may give you a higher chance of having serious side effects from mefloquine .
How should I take Mefloquine ?
Take mefloquine exactly as prescribed .
If you are an adult or pediatric patientweighing 45 kg ( 99 pounds ) or less , your prescriber will tell you the correct dosebased on your weight .
To prevent malaria • For adults and pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg , take 1 tablet of mefloquine at least 1 week before you travel to a malaria area ( or 2 to 3 weeks before you travel to a malaria area , if instructed by your prescriber ) .
This starts the prevention and also helps you see how mefloquine affects you and the other medicines you take .
Take 1 mefloquine tablet once a week , on the same day each week , while in a malaria area .
• Continue taking mefloquine for 4 weeks after returning from a malaria area .
If you cannot continue taking mefloquine due to side effects or for other reasons , contact your prescriber .
• Take mefloquine just after a meal and with at least 1 cup ( 8 ounces ) of water .
• For children , mefloquine can be given with water or crushed and mixed with water or sugar water .
The prescriber will tell you the correct dose for children based on the child ’ s weight .
• If you are told by a doctor or other health care provider to stop taking mefloquine due to side effects or for other reasons , it will be necessary to take another malaria medicine .
You must take malaria prevention medicine beforeyou travel to a malaria area , while you are in a malaria area , and after youreturn from a malaria area .
If you don ’ t have access to a doctor or otherhealth care provider or to another medicine besides mefloquine and have tostop taking it , leave the malaria area .
However , be aware that leaving themalaria area may not protect you from getting malaria .
You still need to takea malaria prevention medicine .
What should I avoid while taking Mefloquine ?
• Halofantrine ( marketed under various brand names ) , a medicine used to treat malaria .
Taking both of these medicines together can cause serious heart problems that can cause death .
• Do not become pregnant .
Women should use effective birth control while taking mefloquine .
• Quinine , quinidine , or chloroquine ( other medicines used to treat malaria ) .
Taking these medicines with mefloquine could cause changes in your heart rate or increase the risk of seizures .
In addition : • Be careful driving or in other activitiesneeding alertness and careful movements ( fine motor coordination ) .
Mefloquine can cause dizziness or loss of balance , even after you stop taking it .
• Be aware that certain vaccines may not work if given while you are takingMefloquine .
Your prescriber may want you to finish taking your vaccines at least 3 days before starting mefloquine .
What are the possible side effects of Mefloquine ?
Mefloquine , like all medicines , may cause side effects in some patients .
The most frequently reported side effects with mefloquine when used for prevention of malaria include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dizziness , difficulty sleeping , and bad dreams .
These are usually mild and do not cause people to stop taking the medicine .
Mefloquine may cause serious mental problems in some patients .
( See “ What is the most important information I should know about Mefloquine ? ” )
.
Mefloquine may affect your liver and your eyes if you take it for a long time .
Your prescriber will tell you if you should have your eyes and liver checked while taking mefloquine .
What else should I know about preventing malaria ?
• Find out whether you need malaria prevention .
Before you travel , talk with your prescriber about your travel plans to determine whether you need to take medicine to prevent malaria .
Even in those countries where malaria is present , there may be areas of the country that are free of malaria .
In general , malaria is more common in rural ( country ) areas than in big cities , and it is more common during rainy seasons , when mosquitoes are most common .
You can get information about the areas of the world where malaria occurs from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) and from local authorities in the countries you visit .
If possible , plan your travel to reduce the risk of malaria .
• Take medicine to prevent malaria infection .
Without malaria prevention medicine , you have a higher risk of getting malaria .
Malaria starts with flu - like symptoms , such as chills , fever , muscle pains , and headaches .
However , malaria can make you very sick or cause death if you don ’ t seek medical help immediately .
These symptoms may disappear for a while , and you may think you are well .
But , the symptoms return later and then it may be too late for successful treatment .
Malaria can cause confusion , coma , and seizures .
It can cause kidney failure , breathing problems , and severe damage to red blood cells .
However , malaria can be easily diagnosed with a blood test , and if caught in time , can be effectively treated If you get flu - like symptoms ( chills , fever , muscle pains , or headaches ) after you return from a malaria area , get medical help right away and tell your prescriber that you may have been exposed to malaria .
People who have lived for many years in areas with malaria may have some immunity to malaria ( they do not get it as easily ) and may not take malaria prevention medicine .
This does not mean that you don ’ t need to take malaria • Protect against mosquito bites .
Medicines do not always completely prevent your catching malaria from mosquito bites .
So protect yourself very well against mosquitoes .
Cover your skin with long sleeves and long pants , and use mosquito repellent and bed nets while in malaria areas .
If you are out in the bush , you may want to pre - wash your clothes with permethrin .
This is a mosquito repellent that may be effective for weeks after use .
Ask your prescriber for other ways to protect yourself .
General information about the safe and effective use of Mefloquine .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions not listed in Medication Guides .
If you have any concerns about mefloquine , ask your prescriber .
This Medication Guide contains certain important information for travelers visiting areas with malaria .
Your prescriber or pharmacist can give you information about mefloquine that was written for health care professionals .
Do not use mefloquine for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share mefloquine with other people .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
MANUFACTURED BY BARR LABORATORIES , INC .
POMONA , NY 10970 BR - 171 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
