DESCRIPTION The barbiturates are nonselective central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants that are primarily used as sedative hypnotics .
In subhypnotic doses , they are also used as anticonvulsants .
The barbiturates and their sodium salts are subject to control under the Federal Controlled Substances Act .
Seconal Sodium ® ( Secobarbital Sodium Capsules , USP ) is a barbituric acid derivative and occurs as a white , odorless , bitter powder that is very soluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in ether .
Chemically , the drug is sodium 5 - allyl - 5 - ( 1 - methylbutyl ) barbiturate , with the molecular formula C12H17N2NaO3 .
Its molecular weight is 260 . 27 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule contains 100 mg ( 0 . 38 mmol ) of secobarbital sodium .
It also contains dimethicone , FD & C Red No . 3 , FD & C Yellow No . 10 , gelatin , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barbiturates are capable of producing all levels of CNS mood alteration , from excitation to mild sedation , hypnosis , and deep coma .
Overdosage can produce death .
In high enough therapeutic doses , barbiturates induce anesthesia .
Barbiturates depress the sensory cortex , decrease motor activity , alter cerebellar function , and produce drowsiness , sedation , and hypnosis .
Barbiturate - induced sleep differs from physiologic sleep .
Sleep laboratory studies have demonstrated that barbiturates reduce the amount of time spent in the rapid eye movement ( REM ) phase , or dreaming stage of sleep .
Also , Stages III and IV sleep are decreased .
Following abrupt cessation of regularly used barbiturates , patients may experience markedly increased dreaming , nightmares , and / or insomnia .
Therefore , withdrawal of a single therapeutic dose over 5 or 6 days has been recommended to lessen the REM rebound and disturbed sleep that contribute to drug withdrawal syndrome ( for example , decreasing the dose from 3 to 2 doses a day for 1 week ) .
In studies , secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium have been found to lose most of their effectiveness for both inducing and maintaining sleep by the end of 2 weeks of continued drug administration , even with the use of multiple doses .
As with secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium , other barbiturates ( including amobarbital ) might be expected to lose their effectiveness for inducing and maintaining sleep after about 2 weeks .
The short - , intermediate - , and to a lesser degree , long - acting barbiturates have been widely prescribed for treating insomnia .
Although the clinical literature abounds with claims that the shortacting barbiturates are superior for producing sleep whereas the intermediate - acting compounds are more effective in maintaining sleep , controlled studies have failed to demonstrate these differential effects .
Therefore , as sleep medications , the barbiturates are of limited value beyond short - term use .
Barbiturates have little analgesic action at subanesthetic doses .
Rather , in subanesthetic doses , these drugs may increase the reaction to painful stimuli .
All barbiturates exhibit anticonvulsant activity in anesthetic doses .
However , of the drugs in this class , only phenobarbital , mephobarbital , and metharbital are effective as oral anticonvulsants in subhypnotic doses .
Barbiturates are respiratory depressants , and the degree of depression is dependent on the dose .
With hypnotic doses , respiratory depression is similar to that which occurs during physiologic sleep accompanied by a slight decrease in blood pressure and heart rate .
Studies in laboratory animals have shown that barbiturates cause reduction in the tone and contractility of the uterus , ureters , and urinary bladder .
However , concentrations of the drugs required to produce this effect in humans are not reached with sedative - hypnotic doses .
Barbiturates do not impair normal hepatic function , but have been shown to induce liver microsomal enzymes , thus increasing and / or altering the metabolism of barbiturates and other drugs ( see Drug Interactions under Precautions ) .
Pharmacokinetics Barbiturates are absorbed in varying degrees following oral or parenteral administration .
The salts are more rapidly absorbed than are the acids .
The rate of absorption is increased if the sodium salt is ingested as a dilute solution or taken on an empty stomach .
Duration of action , which is related to the rate at which the barbiturates are redistributed throughout the body , varies among persons and in the same person from time to time .
Seconal Sodium is classified as a short - acting barbiturate when taken orally .
Its onset of action is 10 to 15 minutes and its duration of action ranges from 3 to 4 hours .
Barbiturates are weak acids that are absorbed and rapidly distributed to all tissues and fluids , with high concentrations in the brain , liver , and kidneys .
Lipid solubility of the barbiturates is the dominant factor in their distribution within the body .
The more lipid soluble the barbiturate , the more rapidly it penetrates all tissues of the body .
Barbiturates are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree , with the degree of binding increasing directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Phenobarbital has the lowest lipid solubility , lowest plasma binding , lowest brain protein binding , the longest delay in onset of activity , and the longest duration of action .
At the opposite extreme is secobarbital , which has the highest lipid solubility , highest plasma protein binding , highest brain protein binding , the shortest delay in onset of activity , and the shortest duration of action .
The plasma half - life for secobarbital sodium in adults ranges between 15 to 40 hours , with a mean of 28 hours .
No data are available for pediatric patients and newborns .
Barbiturates are metabolized primarily by the hepatic microsomal enzyme system , and the metabolic products are excreted in the urine and , less commonly , in the feces .
The excretion of unmetabolized barbiturate is 1 feature that distinguishes the long - acting category from those belonging to other categories , which are almost entirely metabolized .
The inactive metabolites of the barbiturates are excreted as conjugates of glucuronic acid .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE A . Hypnotic , for the short - term treatment of insomnia , since it appears to lose its effectiveness for sleep induction and sleep maintenance after 2 weeks ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) .
B . Preanesthetic CONTRAINDICATIONS Seconal Sodium is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to barbiturates .
It is also contraindicated in patients with a history of manifest or latent porphyria , marked impairment of liver function , or respiratory disease in which dyspnea or obstruction is evident .
WARNINGS Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative - hypnotic drugs .
Because some of the important adverse effects of sedative - hypnotics appear to be dose related ( see Precautions and Dosage and Administration ) , it is important to use the smallest possible effective dose , especially in the elderly .
Complex behaviors such as “ sleep - driving ” ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a sedative - hypnotic , with amnesia for the event ) have been reported .
These events can occur in sedative - hypnotic - naïve as well as in sedative - hypnotic - experienced persons .
Although behaviors such as sleep - driving may occur with sedative - hypnotics alone at therapeutic doses , the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with sedative - hypnotics appears to increase the risk of such behaviors , as does the use of sedative - hypnotics at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose .
Due to the risk to the patient and the community , discontinuation of sedative - hypnotics should be strongly considered for patients who report a “ sleep - driving ” episode .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with sleep - driving , patients usually do not remember these events .
1 .
Habit - Forming — Seconal Sodium may be habit - forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence and Pharmacokinetics under Clinical Pharmacology ) .
Patients who have psychological dependence on barbiturates may increase the dosage or decrease the dosage interval without consulting a physician and subsequently may develop a physical dependence on barbiturates .
To minimize the possibility of overdosage or development of dependence , the prescribing and dispensing of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates should be limited to the amount required for the interval until the next appointment .
The abrupt cessation after prolonged use in a person who is dependent on the drug may result in withdrawal symptoms , including delirium , convulsions , and possibly death .
Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive doses over long periods of time ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) .
2 .
Acute or Chronic Pain — Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain , because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked .
3 .
Usage in Pregnancy — Barbiturates can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Retrospective , case - controlled studies have suggested that there may be a connection between the maternal consumption of barbiturates and a higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities .
Barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues ; the highest concentrations are found in the placenta , fetal liver , and brain .
Fetal blood levels approach maternal blood levels following parenteral administration .
Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to women who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) .
If Seconal Sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
4 .
Synergistic Effects — The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS - depressant effects .
PRECAUTIONS General Barbiturates may be habit - forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continuing use ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) .
Barbiturates should be administered with caution , if at all , to patients who are mentally depressed , have suicidal tendencies , or have a history of drug abuse .
Elderly or debilitated patients may react to barbiturates with marked excitement , depression , or confusion .
In some persons , especially pediatric patients , barbiturates repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression .
In patients with hepatic damage , barbiturates should be administered with caution and initially in reduced doses .
Barbiturates should not be administered to patients showing the premonitory signs of hepatic coma .
Information for Patients “ Sleep - Driving ” and other complex behaviors : There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a sedative - hypnotic and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If a patient experiences such an episode , it should be reported to his or her doctor immediately , since “ sleep - driving ” can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when sedative - hypnotics are taken with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with sleep - driving , patients usually do not remember these events .
The following information should be given to patients receiving Seconal Sodium : 1 .
The use of Seconal Sodium carries with it an associated risk of psychological and / or physical dependence .
The patient should be warned against increasing the dose of the drug without consulting a physician .
2 .
Seconal Sodium may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
3 .
Alcohol should not be consumed while taking Seconal Sodium .
The concurrent use of Seconal Sodium with other CNS depressants ( eg , alcohol , narcotics , tranquilizers , and antihistamines ) may result in additional CNS - depressant effects .
Laboratory Tests Prolonged therapy with barbiturates should be accompanied by periodic laboratory evaluation of organic systems , including hematopoietic , renal , and hepatic systems ( see General under Precautions and Adverse Reactions ) .
Drug Interactions Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital .
However , the application of these data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies .
1 .
Anticoagulants — Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time .
Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes , resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants ( eg , warfarin , acenocoumarol , dicumarol , and phenprocoumon ) .
Patients stabilized on anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
2 .
Corticosteroids — Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids , probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes .
Patients stabilized on corticosteroid therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
3 .
Griseofulvin — Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin , thus decreasing its blood level .
The effect of the resultant decreased blood levels of griseofulvin on therapeutic response has not been established .
However , it would be preferable to avoid concomitant administration of these drugs .
4 .
Doxycycline — Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half - life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued .
This mechanism is probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes that metabolize the antibiotic .
If barbiturates and doxycycline are administered concurrently , the clinical response to doxycycline should be monitored closely .
5 .
Phenytoin , Sodium Valproate , Valproic Acid — The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable .
Some investigators report an accelerating effect , whereas others report no effect .
Because the effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin is not predictable , phenytoin and barbiturate blood levels should be monitored more frequently if these drugs are given concurrently .
Sodium valproate and valproic acid increase the secobarbital sodium serum levels ; therefore , secobarbital sodium blood levels should be monitored closely and appropriate dosage adjustments made as clinically indicated .
6 .
CNS Depressants — The concomitant use of other CNS depressants , including other sedatives or hypnotics , antihistamines , tranquilizers , or alcohol , may produce additive depressant effects .
7 .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) — MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates , probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited .
8 .
Estradiol , Estrone , Progesterone , and Other Steroidal Hormones — Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism .
There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs ( eg , phenobarbital ) who become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives .
An alternate contraceptive method might be suggested to women taking barbiturates .
Carcinogenesis 1 .
Animal Data .
Phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in mice and rats after lifetime administration .
In mice , it produced benign and malignant liver cell tumors .
In rats , benign liver cell tumors were observed very late in life .
2 .
Human Data — In a 29 - year epidemiologic study of 9 , 136 patients who were treated on an anticonvulsant protocol that included phenobarbital , results indicated a higher than normal incidence of hepatic carcinoma .
Previously , some of these patients had been treated with thorotrast , a drug that is known to produce hepatic carcinomas .
Thus , this study did not provide sufficient evidence that phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in humans .
A retrospective study of 84 pediatric patients with brain tumors matched to 73 normal controls and 78 cancer controls ( malignant disease other than brain tumors ) suggested an association between exposure to barbiturates prenatally and an increased incidence of brain tumors .
Usage in pregnancy 1 .
Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D . See Usage in Pregnancy under Warnings .
2 .
Nonteratogenic Effects Reports of infants suffering from long - term barbiturate exposure in utero included the acute withdrawal syndrome of seizures and hyperirritability from birth to a delayed onset of up to 14 days ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) .
Labor and Delivery Hypnotic doses of barbiturates do not appear to impair uterine activity significantly during labor .
Full anesthetic doses of barbiturates decrease the force and frequency of uterine contractions .
Administration of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates to the mother during labor may result in respiratory depression in the newborn .
Premature infants are particularly susceptible to the depressant effects of barbiturates .
If barbiturates are used during labor and delivery , resuscitation equipment should be available .
Data are not available to evaluate the effect of barbiturates when forceps delivery or other intervention is necessary or to determine the effect of barbiturates on the later growth , development , and functional maturity of the pediatric patient .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when Seconal Sodium is administered to a nursing woman , because small amounts of barbiturates are excreted in the milk .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions and their incidences were compiled from surveillance of thousands of hospitalized patients who received barbiturates .
Because such patients may be less aware of some of the milder adverse effects of barbiturates , the incidence of these reactions may be somewhat higher in fully ambulatory patients .
More than 1 in 100 Patients The most common adverse reaction estimated to occur at a rate of 1 to 3 patients per 100 is the following : Nervous System : Somnolence Less than 1 in 100 Patients Adverse reactions estimated to occur at a rate of less than 1 in 100 patients are listed below , grouped by organ system and by decreasing order of occurrence : Nervous System : Agitation , confusion , hyperkinesia , ataxia , CNS depression , nightmares , nervousness , psychiatric disturbance , hallucinations , insomnia , anxiety , dizziness , abnormality in thinking Respiratory System : Hypoventilation , apnea Cardiovascular System : Bradycardia , hypotension , syncope Digestive System : Nausea , vomiting , constipation Other Reported Reactions : Headache , injection site reactions , hypersensitivity reactions ( angioedema , skin rashes , exfoliative dermatitis ) , fever , liver damage , megaloblastic anemia following chronic phenobarbital use DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Abuse is characterized by misuse of the drug for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , decreasing blood level of the drug and / or administration of an antagonist .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug ’ s effects over time .
Tolerance may occur to both the desired and undesired effects of drugs and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Addiction is primary , chronic , neurobiological disease with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Controlled substance ─ Seconal Sodium Capsules are a Schedule II drug .
Dependence ─ Barbiturates may be habit - forming ; tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur , especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
Daily administration in excess of 400 mg of secobarbital for approximately 90 days is likely to produce some degree of physical dependence .
A dosage of 600 to 800 mg for at least 35 days is sufficient to produce withdrawal seizures .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1 . 5 g .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than twofold .
As this occurs , the margin between intoxicating dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
Symptoms of acute intoxication with barbiturates include unsteady gait , slurred speech , and sustained nystagmus .
Mental signs of chronic intoxication include confusion , poor judgment , irritability , insomnia , and somatic complaints .
Symptoms of barbiturate dependence are similar to those of chronic alcoholism .
If an individual appears to be intoxicated with alcohol to a degree that is radically disproportionate to the amount of alcohol in his or her blood , the use of barbiturates should be suspected .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
The symptoms of barbiturate withdrawal can be severe and may cause death .
Minor withdrawal symptoms may appear 8 to 12 hours after the last dose of a barbiturate .
These symptoms usually appear in the following order : anxiety , muscle twitching , tremor of hands and fingers , progressive weakness , dizziness , distortion in visual perception , nausea , vomiting , insomnia , and orthostatic hypotension .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of barbiturates .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Individuals susceptible to barbiturate abuse and dependence include alcoholics and opiate abusers , as well as other sedative - hypnotic and amphetamine abusers .
Drug dependence on barbiturates arises from repeated administration on a continuous basis , generally in amounts exceeding therapeutic dose levels .
The characteristics of drug dependence on barbiturates include the following : ( a ) a strong desire or need to continue taking the drug ; ( b ) a tendency to increase the dose ; ( c ) a psychic dependence on the effects of the drug related to subjective and individual appreciation of those effects ; and ( d ) a physical dependence on the effects of the drug , requiring its presence for maintenance of homeostasis and resulting in a definite , characteristic , and self - limited abstinence syndrome when the drug is withdrawn .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of withdrawal regimens .
In all cases , withdrawal takes an extended period .
One method involves substituting a 30 - mg dose of phenobarbital for each 100 - to 200 - mg dose of barbiturate that the patient has been taking .
The total daily amount of phenobarbital is then administered in 3 or 4 divided doses , not to exceed 600 mg daily .
Should signs of withdrawal occur on the first day of treatment , a loading dose of 100 to 200 mg of phenobarbital may be administered IM in addition to the oral dose .
After stabilization on phenobarbital , the total daily dose is decreased by 30 mg a day as long as withdrawal is proceeding smoothly .
A modification of this regimen involves initiating treatment at the patient ’ s regular dosage level and decreasing the daily dosage by 10 % as tolerated by the patient .
Infants that are physically dependent on barbiturates may be given phenobarbital , 3 to 10 mg / kg / day .
After withdrawal symptoms ( hyperactivity , disturbed sleep , tremors , and hyperreflexia ) are relieved , the dosage of phenobarbital should be gradually decreased and completely withdrawn over a 2 - week period .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic dose of barbiturates varies considerably .
In general , an oral dose of 1 g of most barbiturates produces serious poisoning in an adult .
Death commonly occurs after 2 to 10 g of ingested barbiturate .
The sedated , therapeutic blood levels of secobarbital range between 0 . 5 to 5 mcg / mL ; the usual lethal blood level ranges from 15 to 40 mcg / mL .
Barbiturate intoxication may be confused with alcoholism , bromide intoxication , and various neurologic disorders .
Potential tolerance must be considered when evaluating significance of dose and plasma concentration .
Signs and Symptoms — Symptoms of oral overdose may occur within 15 minutes and begin with central nervous system depression , underventilation , hypotension , and hypothermia , which may progress to pulmonary edema and death .
Hemorrhagic blisters may develop , especially at pressure points .
In extreme overdose , all electrical activity in the brain may cease , in which case a “ flat ” EEG normally equated with clinical death cannot be accepted as indicative of brain death .
This effect is fully reversible unless hypoxic damage occurs .
Consideration should be given to the possibility of barbiturate intoxication even in situations that appear to involve trauma .
Complications such as pneumonia , pulmonary edema , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , and renal failure may occur .
Uremia may increase CNS sensitivity to barbiturates if renal function is impaired .
Differential diagnosis should include hypoglycemia , head trauma , cerebrovascular accidents , convulsive states , and diabetic coma .
Treatment — To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Protect the patient ’ s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Diuresis and peritoneal dialysis are of little value ; hemodialysis and hemoperfusion enhance drug clearance and should be considered in serious poisoning .
If the patient has chronically abused sedatives , withdrawal reactions may be manifest following acute overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosages of barbiturates must be individualized with full knowledge of their particular characteristics .
Factors of consideration are the patient ’ s age , weight , and condition .
Adults — As a hypnotic , 100 mg at bedtime .
Preoperatively , 200 to 300 mg 1 to 2 hours before surgery .
Pediatric Patients — Preoperatively , 2 to 6 mg / kg , with a maximum dosage of 100 mg .
Special patient population — Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates .
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease .
HOW SUPPLIED Seconal Sodium capsules are ( orange ) and imprinted with RX679 on both the cap and the body : NDC 63304 - 679 - 01 100 mg Bottles of 100 Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in a tight container .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ohm Laboratories , Inc .
North Brunswick , NJ 08902 USA May 2007
