No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream Sunscreen SPF 15 Active ingredients Purpose Octinoxate ( 6 . 0 % ) Sunscreens Avobenzone ( 3 . 0 % ) Octisalate ( 2 . 5 % ) Uses • Provides moderate protection against the adverse effects of the sun • Higher SPF gives more protection Warnings For external use only When using this product Keep out of eyes .
If contact occurs rinse thoroughly with cold water Avoid direct contact with fabric Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep our of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help .
Directions • After cleansing , toning and applying Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum , simply smooth into your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
• Apply evenly at least 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply as required .
• Not intended for children under the age of 12 .
• Not intended for protection while sunbathing .
Other information Do not store above 30 oC or 86 oF Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea butter ) , Dimethicone , Isononyl Isononanoate , Cetyl alcohol , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Polyglyceryl - 3 methylglucose distearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Sorbitan stearate , Mica , Polysorbate 20 , Alcohol denat . , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Ethylparaben , Laureth - 7 , Retinyl palmitate , Sucrose cocoate , Xanthan gum , Ascorbyl glucoside , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , Lupinus albus seed extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , BHT , Tocopherol , Butylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Silica , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Renewed Radiance ... Give your skincare routine a boost with our protecting daytime formula for hydrated , smoother , revitalised skin .
Created to be used with our Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum for prolonged moisturisation and even better results .
Smoothes the appearance of fine dehydration lines , leaving skin feeling firmer .
A rich formulation which contains SPF15 and our patent pending next generation antioxidant complex to help protect against damaging effects of free radicals .
Formulated with our skin firming pro - retinol complex containing lipo - peptides to boost and maintain elasticity .
A little facial , every day ... Use every morning after cleansing , toning and applying Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum .
Simply smooth into your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
To give your skin an extra helping hand , use Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum and Night Cream just before bedtime .
Dermatologically tested Mfd in the UK for BBI NG2 3 AA .
UK .
Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT 06901 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - Boots www . boots . com Use this protecting and rejuvenating daytime moisturiser with our Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum to reveal smoother , revitalised skin .
Smooth into your face and neck .
Avoid direct contact with eyes .
Hypo - allergenic .
Dermatologically tested .
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Octisalate 2 . 5 % , Octinoxate 6 . 0 % , Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Boots www . boots . com Mdf in the UK for / Fabriqué au R . - U .
pour BBI NG2 3 AA .
UK Dist in the USA by / aux É . U .
par Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT 06901 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS No7 Protect and Perfect Protection et Perfection Day Cream / Créme de Jour Works with your Protect and Perfect Beauty Serum to reveal younger looking skin Sunscreen SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic Boots 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz P and P Day Cream carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Protect and Perfect Protection et Perfection Day Cream Créme de Jour Sunscreen SPF15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz P and P Day Cream carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
