WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY – CONTRAINDICATED IN PREGNANCY Isotretinoin capsules can cause severe life - threatening birth defects and is contraindicated in pregnancy .
There is an extremely high risk that life - threatening birth defects will result if pregnancy occurs while taking any amount of isotretinoin capsules even for short periods of time .
Potentially any fetus exposed during pregnancy can be affected .
There are no accurate means of determining prenatally whether an exposed fetus has been affected .
If pregnancy occurs , discontinue isotretinoin capsules immediately and refer the patient to an Obstetrician - Gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the risk of embryo - fetal toxicity , isotretinoin is available only through a restricted program under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) called the iPLEDGE REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY – CONTRAINDICATED IN PREGNANCY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Isotretinoin capsules can cause life - threatening birth defects and is contraindicated in pregnancy .
There is an extremely high risk that life - threatening birth defects will result if pregnancy occurs while taking isotretinoin capsules in any amount , even for short periods of time .
Potentially any fetus exposed during pregnancy can be affected .
There are no accurate means of determining whether an exposed fetus has been affected .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Isotretinoin capsules are available only through a restricted program called the iPLEDGE REMS .
( 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isotretinoin capsules are indicated for the treatment of severe recalcitrant nodular acne in non - pregnant patients 12 years of age and older with multiple inflammatory nodules with a diameter of 5 mm or greater .
Because of significant adverse reactions associated with its use , isotretinoin capsules are reserved for patients with severe nodular acne who are unresponsive to conventional therapy , including systemic antibiotics .
Isotretinoin capsules are retinoids indicated for the treatment of severe recalcitrant nodular acne in non - pregnant patients 12 years of age and older with multiple inflammatory nodules with a diameter of 5 mm or greater .
Because of significant adverse reactions associated with its use , isotretinoin capsules are reserved for patients with severe nodular acne who are unresponsive to conventional therapy , including systemic antibiotics .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : If a second course of isotretinoin therapy is needed , it is not recommended before a two - month waiting period because the patient ' s acne may continue to improve following a 15 to 20 - week course of therapy .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : If a second course of isotretinoin therapy is needed , it is not recommended before a two - month waiting period because the patient ' s acne may continue to improve following a 15 to 20 - week course of therapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage for isotretinoin capsules is 0 . 5 to 1 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses without regard to meals for 15 to 20 weeks ( 2 . 1 ) • Adult patients with very severe disease ( scarring , trunk involvement ) may increase dosage to 2 mg / kg / day of isotretinoin capsules in divided doses .
( 2 . 1 ) • Once daily dosing is not recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) • If a dose of isotretinoin capsules is missed , just skip that dose .
Do not take two doses of isotretinoin capsules at the same time .
( 2 . 1 ) • Perform pregnancy tests prior to prescribing , each month during therapy , end of therapy , and one month after discontinuation .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 3 ) • Prior to prescribing , perform fasting lipid profile and liver function tests .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage • Isotretinoin capsules is 0 . 5 to 1 mg / kg / day given in two divided doses with or without meals for 15 to 20 weeks ( see Table 1 ) .
To decrease the risk of esophageal irritation , instruct patients to swallow the capsules with a full glass of liquid .
During treatment , the dosage may be adjusted according to response of the disease and / or adverse reactions , some of which may be dose - related .
Adult patients whose disease is very severe with scarring or is primarily manifested on the trunk may require dosage adjustments up to 2 mg / kg / day for isotretinoin capsules in divided doses , as tolerated .
The safety and effectiveness of once daily dosing with isotretinoin capsules has not been established and is not recommended .
If a dose of isotretinoin capsules is missed , just skip that dose .
Do not take two doses of isotretinoin capsules at the same time .
Table 1 : Isotretinoin Capsules Daily Dosage by Body Weight [ 1 ] Body Weight Total Daily Dosage ( mg ) null 0 . 5 mg / kg 1 mg / kg 2 mg / kg 40 kg 20 40 80 50 kg 25 50 100 60 kg 30 60 120 70 kg 35 70 140 80 kg 40 80 160 90 kg 45 90 180 100 kg 50 100 200 [ 1 ] Administer in two divided doses with or without meals 2 . 2 Duration of Use A normal course of treatment is 15 to 20 weeks .
If the total nodule count has been reduced by more than 70 % prior to completing 15 to 20 weeks of treatment , may discontinue isotretinoin capsules .
After a period of 2 months or more off therapy , and if warranted by persistent or recurring severe nodular acne , may initiate a second course of isotretinoin capsules in patients who have completed skeletal growth .
The use of another course of isotretinoin therapy is not recommended before a two - month waiting period because the patient ' s acne may continue to improve after a 15 to 20 - week course of therapy .
The optimal interval before retreatment has not been defined for patients who have not completed skeletal growth .
Long - term use of isotretinoin capsules , even in low dosages , has not been studied , and is not recommended .
The effect of long - term use of isotretinoin capsules on bone loss is unknown [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
2 . 3 Laboratory Testing Prior to Administration The following laboratory testing must be completed prior to isotretinoin use : • Pregnancy testing : Ensure patient is not pregnant prior to administering isotretinoin capsules [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] • A fasting lipid profile including triglycerides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 , 5 . 15 ) ] • Liver function tests [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 , 5 . 15 ) ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Isotretinoin capsules , USP are available in 10 mg , 20 mg and 30 mg .
• 10 mg : Yellow , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 570 " in black ink .
• 20 mg : Pink , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 571 " in black ink .
• 30 mg : Brown , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 573 " in black ink .
Capsules : 10 mg , 20 mg and 30 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pregnancy ( 4 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components ( 4 . 2 , 5 . 15 ) 4 . 1 Pregnancy Isotretinoin capsules are contraindicated in pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity Isotretinoin capsules are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to isotretinoin ( or Vitamin A , given the chemical similarity to isotretinoin ) or to any of its components ( anaphylaxis and other allergic reactions have occurred ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Psychiatric Disorders ( depression , psychosis , suicidal thoughts and behavior , and aggressive and / or violent behaviors ) : Prior to and during therapy assess for these conditions ; stop if these conditions occur on therapy ( 5 . 4 ) • Intracranial Hypertension ( Pseudotumor Cerebri ) : Avoid use with concomitant tetracyclines ( 5 . 5 ) • Serious Skin Reactions : Monitor for Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , and other serious skin reactions ( 5 . 6 ) • Acute Pancreatitis : If occurs , discontinue treatment ( 5 . 7 ) • Lipid Abnormalities ( hypertriglyceridemia , low HDL , and elevation of cholesterol ) : Monitor lipid levels at regular intervals ; stop if hypertriglyceridemia cannot be controlled ( 5 . 8 ) • Hearing Impairment : Discontinue and refer to specialized care ( 5 . 9 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor liver function tests prior to and during therapy ( 5 . 10 , 5 . 15 ) • Inflammatory Bowel Disease : Discontinue for abdominal pain , rectal bleeding , or severe diarrhea ( 5 . 11 ) • Musculoskeletal Abnormalities : Arthralgias , back pain , decreases in bone mineral density and premature epiphyseal closure ( 5 . 12 ) • Ocular Abnormalities e . g . , corneal opacities , decreased night vision : If visual symptoms occur , discontinue and refer for an ophthalmological exam ( 5 . 13 ) 5 . 1 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Isotretinoin is contraindicated in pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
Based on human data , isotretinoin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant patient .
There is an extremely high risk that life - threatening birth defects will result if pregnancy occurs while taking any amount of isotretinoin even for short periods of time .
Potentially any fetus exposed during pregnancy can be affected .
There are no accurate means of determining prenatally whether an exposed fetus has been affected .
Major congenital malformations , spontaneous abortions , and premature births have been documented following exposure to isotretinoin during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
If a pregnancy occurs during isotretinoin treatment , discontinue isotretinoin immediately and refer the patient to an obstetrician / gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling .
Any suspected fetal exposure during or 1 month after isotretinoin therapy must be reported immediately to the FDA via the MedWatch telephone number 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 , and also to the iPLEDGE pregnancy registry at 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or via the internet ( www . ipledgeprogram . com ) .
Patients must be informed not to donate blood during isotretinoin therapy and for 1 month following discontinuation because the blood might be given to a pregnant patient whose fetus must not be exposed to isotretinoin .
Isotretinoin capsules are available only through a restricted program under a REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 iPLEDGE REMS Isotretinoin capsules are available only through a restricted program under a REMS called the iPLEDGE REMS because of the risk of embryo - fetal toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Notable requirements of the iPLEDGE REMS include the following : • Prescribers must be certified with the program and comply with the following requirements : • Determine reproductive status of all patients prior to initiating treatment • Provide contraception counseling to patients who can get pregnant prior to and during treatment , or refer patients who can get pregnant to an expert for such counseling • Provide scheduled pregnancy testing , and verify and document the negative pregnancy test result prior to writing each prescription , for no more than a 30 - day supply • Patients who can become pregnant must be enrolled by signing an informed consent form and must comply with the following requirements • Comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] • Demonstrate comprehension of the safe - use conditions of the program every month • Obtain the prescription within 7 days of the pregnancy test collection • Patients who cannot become pregnant must be enrolled by signing an informed consent form and must obtain the prescription within 30 days of the office visit • Pharmacies that dispense isotretinoin capsules must be certified by being enrolled and activated in the program , must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive isotretinoin capsules , and comply with the following requirements : • Only dispense a maximum of a 30 - day supply with a Medication Guide .
• Do not dispense refills .
Dispense only with a new prescription and a new authorization from the program .
• Return isotretinoin capsules to inventory if patients do not obtain the prescription by the " Do Not Dispense To After " date • Wholesalers and distributors must be enrolled with the program and must only distribute to certified pharmacies .
Further information , including a list of qualified pharmacies and distributors , is available at www . ipledgeprogram . com or 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Disorders Isotretinoin may cause depression , psychosis and , rarely , suicidal ideation , suicide attempts , suicide , and aggressive and / or violent behaviors [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Healthcare providers should be alert to the warning signs of psychiatric disorders to help ensure patients receive the help they need ( Prescribers should read the brochure , Recognizing Psychiatric Disorders in Adolescents and Young Adults : A Guide for Prescribers of Isotretinoin ) .
Prior to initiation of isotretinoin therapy , patients and family members should be asked about any history of psychiatric disorder , and at each visit during therapy patients should be assessed for symptoms of depression , mood disturbance , psychosis , or aggression to determine if further evaluation is necessary .
Patients should immediately stop isotretinoin capsules and the patient ( or caregiver ) should promptly contact their prescriber if the patient develops depression , mood disturbance , psychosis , or aggression .
Discontinuation of isotretinoin capsules may be insufficient ; further evaluation may be necessary such as a referral to a mental healthcare professional .
5 . 5 Intracranial Hypertension ( Pseudotumor Cerebri ) Isotretinoin use has been associated with cases of intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) , some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines .
Concomitant treatment with tetracyclines should therefore be avoided with isotretinoin use .
Early signs and symptoms of intracranial hypertension include papilledema , headache , nausea and vomiting , and visual disturbances .
Patients with these symptoms should be screened for papilledema and , if present , they should be told to discontinue isotretinoin capsules immediately and be referred to a neurologist for further diagnosis and care [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 6 Serious Skin Reactions There have been post - marketing reports of erythema multiforme and severe skin reactions [ e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) ] associated with isotretinoin use .
These reactions may be serious and result in death , life - threatening events , hospitalization , or disability .
Patients should be monitored closely for severe skin reactions , and isotretinoin capsules should be discontinued if they occur .
5 . 7 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis has been reported with isotretinoin use in patients with either elevated or normal serum triglyceride levels .
In rare instances , fatal hemorrhagic pancreatitis has been reported .
If symptoms of pancreatitis occur , discontinue isotretinoin capsules and seek medical attention .
5 . 8 Lipid Abnormalities Elevations of serum triglycerides above 800 mg / dL have been reported with isotretinoin use .
In clinical trials , marked elevations of serum triglycerides , decreases in high - density lipoproteins ( HDL ) , and increases in cholesterol levels were reported in 25 % , 15 % , and 7 % of patients treated with isotretinoin capsules , respectively .
These lipid changes were reversible upon isotretinoin capsule cessation .
Some patients have been able to reverse triglyceride elevation by reduction in weight and restriction of dietary fat and alcohol while continuing isotretinoin or through dosage reduction .
The cardiovascular consequences of hypertriglyceridemia associated with isotretinoin are unknown .
Fasting lipid tests should be performed before isotretinoin treatment and then at intervals until the lipid response to isotretinoin is known , which usually occurs within 4 weeks .
Careful consideration should be given to risk / benefit of isotretinoin in patients who are at higher risk of hypertriglyceridemia ( e . g . , patients with diabetes , obesity , increased alcohol intake , lipid metabolism disorder or familial history of lipid metabolism disorder ) .
If isotretinoin therapy is instituted in such patients , more frequent checks of serum values for lipids are recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
Isotretinoin should be stopped if hypertriglyceridemia cannot be controlled .
5 . 9 Hearing Impairment Impaired hearing has been reported in patients taking isotretinoin ; in some cases , the hearing impairment has been reported to persist after therapy has been discontinued .
Mechanism ( s ) and causality for this reaction have not been established .
Patients who experience tinnitus or hearing impairment should discontinue isotretinoin treatment and be referred for specialized care for further evaluation .
5 . 10 Hepatotoxicity Clinical hepatitis has been reported with isotretinoin use .
Additionally , mild to moderate elevations of liver enzymes have been observed in approximately 15 % of individuals treated during clinical trials with isotretinoin capsules , some of which normalized with dosage reduction or continued administration of the drug .
If normalization does not readily occur or if hepatitis is suspected during treatment , isotretinoin capsules should be discontinued .
5 . 11 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Isotretinoin has been associated with inflammatory bowel disease ( including regional ileitis ) in patients without a prior history of intestinal disorders .
In some instances , symptoms have been reported to persist after isotretinoin treatment has been stopped .
Patients experiencing abdominal pain , rectal bleeding or severe diarrhea should discontinue isotretinoin capsules immediately [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 12 Musculoskeletal Abnormalities Bone Mineral Density Changes , Osteoporosis , and Fractures Isotretinoin may have a negative effect on bone mineral density ( BMD ) in some patients .
In a clinical trial of isotretinoin and another isotretinoin capsule product , 27 / 306 ( 9 % ) of adolescents had BMD declines , defined as ≥ 4 % lumbar spine or total hip , or ≥ 5 % femoral neck , during the 20 - week treatment period .
Repeat scans conducted within 2 to 3 months after the post - treatment scan showed no recovery of BMD .
Long - term data at 4 to 11 months showed that 3 out of 7 patients had total hip and femoral neck BMD below pre - treatment baseline , and 2 others did not show the increase in BMD above baseline expected in this adolescent population .
Therefore , healthcare providers should use caution when prescribing isotretinoin capsules to patients with a history of childhood osteoporosis conditions , osteomalacia , or other disorders of bone metabolism .
This would include patients diagnosed with anorexia nervosa and those who are on chronic drug therapy that causes drug - induced osteoporosis / osteomalacia and / or affects vitamin D metabolism , such as systemic corticosteroids and any anticonvulsant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
There have been spontaneous reports of osteoporosis , osteopenia , fractures and / or delayed healing of fractures in patients while on therapy with isotretinoin or following cessation of therapy with isotretinoin .
Patients in early and late adolescence who participate in sports with repetitive impact may be at an increased risk of spondylolisthesis with and without pars fractures , and hip growth plate injuries have been reported .
Musculoskeletal Abnormalities Approximately 16 % of patients treated with isotretinoin capsules in a clinical trial developed musculoskeletal symptoms ( including arthralgia ) during treatment .
In general , these symptoms were mild to moderate , but occasionally required discontinuation of isotretinoin .
In a trial of pediatric patients treated with isotretinoin capsules , approximately 29 % ( 104 / 358 ) developed back pain .
Back pain was severe in 14 % ( 14 / 104 ) of the cases and occurred at a higher frequency in female patients than male patients .
Arthralgias were experienced in 22 % ( 79 / 358 ) of pediatric patients .
Arthralgias were severe in 8 % ( 6 / 79 ) of patients .
Appropriate evaluation of the musculoskeletal system should be done in patients who present with these symptoms during or after a course of isotretinoin .
Consider discontinuing isotretinoin capsules if any significant abnormality is found .
Effects of multiple courses of isotretinoin on the developing musculoskeletal system are unknown .
There is some evidence that long - term , high - dose , or multiple courses of therapy with isotretinoin have more of an effect than a single course of therapy on the musculoskeletal system .
It is important that isotretinoin capsules be given at the recommended dose for no longer than the recommended duration .
Hyperostosis A high prevalence of skeletal hyperostosis was noted in clinical trials for disorders of keratinization with a mean dose of 2 . 24 mg / kg / day of isotretinoin capsules ( approximately 1 . 1 times the maximum recommended daily dosage ) .
Additionally , skeletal hyperostosis was noted in 6 of 8 patients in a prospective trial of disorders of keratinization .
Minimal skeletal hyperostosis and calcification of ligaments and tendons have also been observed by x - ray in prospective trials of nodular acne patients treated with a single course of therapy at recommended doses .
The skeletal effects of multiple isotretinoin treatment courses for acne are unknown .
In a clinical trial of 217 pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) with severe recalcitrant nodular acne , hyperostosis was not observed after 16 to 20 weeks of treatment with approximately 1 mg / kg / day of isotretinoin capsules given in two divided doses .
Hyperostosis may require a longer time frame to appear .
The clinical course and significance remain unknown .
Premature Epiphyseal Closure There are spontaneous literature reports of premature epiphyseal closure in acne patients receiving recommended doses of isotretinoin capsules .
The effect of multiple courses of isotretinoin on epiphyseal closure is unknown .
In a 20 - week clinical trial that included 289 adolescents on isotretinoin or another isotretinoin capsule product who had hand radiographs taken to assess bone age , a total of 9 ( 3 % ) patients had bone age changes that were clinically significant and for which a drug - related effect cannot be excluded .
5 . 13 Ocular Abnormalities Visual problems should be carefully monitored .
If visual difficulties occur , discontinue isotretinoin treatment and obtain an ophthalmological examination [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Corneal Opacities Corneal opacities have occurred in patients receiving isotretinoin capsules and more frequently when higher drug dosages were used in patients with disorders of keratinization .
The corneal opacities that have been observed in clinical trial patients treated with isotretinoin capsules have either completely resolved or were resolving at follow - up 6 to 7 weeks after discontinuation of isotretinoin [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Decreased Night Vision Decreased night vision has been reported during isotretinoin use and in some instances the event has persisted after therapy was discontinued .
Because the onset in some patients was sudden , patients should be advised of this potential problem and warned to be cautious when driving or operating any vehicle at night .
Dry Eyes Dry eyes have been reported in patients during isotretinoin use .
Patients who wear contact lenses may have trouble wearing them while on isotretinoin capsules treatment and afterwards .
5 . 14 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic reactions and other allergic reactions have been reported with isotretinoin use .
Cutaneous allergic reactions and serious cases of allergic vasculitis , often with purpura ( bruises and red patches ) of the extremities and extracutaneous involvement ( including renal ) have been reported .
Severe allergic reaction necessitates discontinuation of therapy and appropriate medical management .
5 . 15 Laboratory Abnormalities and Laboratory Monitoring for Adverse Reactions Laboratory Monitoring Pregnancy Testing A pregnancy test must be obtained prior to obtaining a prescription , repeated each month , at the end of the entire course of isotretinoin therapy and 1 month after the discontinuation of isotretinoin capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lipid Tests Pretreatment and follow - up fasting lipid tests should be obtained under fasting conditions .
After consumption of alcohol , at least 36 hours should elapse before testing is performed .
It is recommended that these tests be performed periodically until the lipid response to isotretinoin is known .
The incidence of hypertriglyceridemia is 25 % in patients treated with isotretinoin capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Liver Function Tests As elevations of liver enzymes have been observed during clinical trials , and hepatitis has been reported in patients on isotretinoin capsules , pretreatment and follow - up liver function tests should be performed periodically until the response to isotretinoin is known [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Additional Laboratory Abnormalities Glucose With isotretinoin use , some patients have experienced problems in the control of their blood sugar .
In addition , new cases of diabetes have been diagnosed during isotretinoin use .
CPK Some patients undergoing vigorous physical activity while taking isotretinoin have experienced elevated CPK levels ; however , the clinical significance is unknown .
There have been rare post - marketing reports of rhabdomyolysis with isotretinoin use , some associated with strenuous physical activity .
In a clinical trial of 924 patients , marked elevations in CPK ( ≥ 350 U / L ) were observed in approximately 24 % of patients treated with isotretinoin capsules .
In another clinical trial of 217 pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years old ) elevations in CPK were observed in 12 % of patients , including those undergoing strenuous physical activity in association with reported musculoskeletal adverse events such as back pain , arthralgia , limb injury , or muscle sprain .
In these patients , approximately half of the CPK elevations returned to normal within 2 weeks and half returned to normal within 4 weeks .
No cases of rhabdomyolysis were reported in this clinical trial .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with isotretinoin or other isotretinoin capsule products are described in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Psychiatric Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Intracranial Hypertension ( Pseudotumor Cerebri ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Serious Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Lipid Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hearing Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Inflammatory Bowel Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Musculoskeletal Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Ocular Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of isotretinoin capsules were identified in clinical studies or post - marketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) are : dry lips , dry skin , back pain , dry eye , arthralgia , epistaxis , headache , nasopharyngitis , chapped lips , dermatitis , increased creatine kinase , cheilitis , musculoskeletal discomfort , upper respiratory tract infection , reduced visual acuity .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 855 - 899 - 9180 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch or iPLEDGE at ( 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 ) .
Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia were dose related .
Body as a Whole Fatigue , irritability , pain , allergic reactions , systemic hypersensitivity , edema , lymphadenopathy , weight loss .
Cardiovascular Vascular thrombotic disease , stroke , palpitation , tachycardia .
Endocrine / Metabolism and Nutritional Decreased appetite , weight fluctuation , alterations in blood sugar .
Gastrointestinal Dry lips , chapped lips , cheilitis , nausea , constipation , diarrhea , abdominal pain , vomiting , inflammatory bowel disease , hepatitis , pancreatitis , bleeding and inflammation of the gums , colitis , esophagitis , esophageal ulceration , ileitis .
Hematologic Anemia and decreased RBC parameters , thrombocytopenia , increased platelet counts , decreased WBC counts , severe neutropenia , rare reports of agranulocytosis .
Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis , hordeolum , infections ( including disseminated herpes simplex and upper respiratory tract infection ) .
Laboratory Abnormalities The following lab tests were increased : creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) , triglycerides , alanine aminotransferase ( SGPT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( SGOT ) , gamma - glutamyltransferase ( GGTP ) , cholesterol , low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin , LDH , fasting blood glucose , uric acid , and sedimentation rate .
However , high density lipoprotein ( HDL ) was decreased .
Urine findings included increased white cells , proteinuria , microscopic or gross hematuria .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Decreases in bone mineral density , musculoskeletal symptoms ( sometimes severe ) including back pain , arthralgia , musculoskeletal pain , neck pain , extremity pain , myalgia , musculoskeletal stiffness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] , skeletal hyperostosis , calcification of tendons and ligaments , premature epiphyseal closure , tendonitis , arthritis , transient chest pain , and rare reports of rhabdomyolysis .
Neurological Headache , syncope , intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) , dizziness , drowsiness , lethargy , malaise , nervousness , paresthesia , seizures , stroke , weakness .
Psychiatric Suicidal ideation , insomnia , anxiety , depression , irritability , panic attack , anger , euphoria , violent behaviors , emotional instability , suicide attempts , suicide , aggression , psychosis and auditory hallucinations .
Of the patients reporting depression , some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy .
Reproductive System Abnormal menses , sexual dysfunction , including erectile dysfunction and decreased libido .
Respiratory Epistaxis , nasal dryness , bronchospasm ( with or without a history of asthma ) , respiratory infection , voice alteration .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Dry skin , dermatitis , eczema , rash , contact dermatitis , alopecia , pruritus , sunburn , erythema , acne fulminans , alopecia ( which in some cases persisted ) , bruising , dry nose , eruptive xanthomas , erythema multiforme , flushing , skin fragility , hair abnormalities , hirsutism , hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation , nail dystrophy , paronychia , peeling of palms and soles , photoallergic / photosensitizing reactions , pruritus , pyogenic granuloma , rash ( including facial erythema , seborrhea , and eczema ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , increased sunburn susceptibility , sweating , toxic epidermal necrolysis , urticaria , vasculitis ( including granulomatosis with polyangiitis ) , abnormal wound healing ( delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting ) .
Senses Hearing : tinnitus and hearing impairment .
Ocular : dry eyes , reduced visual acuity , blurred vision , eye pruritis , eye irritation , asthenopia , decreased night vision , ocular hyperemia , increased lacrimation , conjunctivitis , corneal opacities , decreased night vision which may persist , cataracts , color vision disorder , conjunctivitis , eyelid inflammation , keratitis , optic neuritis , photobia , visual disturbances .
Renal and Urinary Glomerulonephritis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Vitamin A : may cause additive adverse reactions ( 7 . 1 ) • Tetracyclines : avoid concomitant use ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Vitamin A Isotretinoin capsules are closely related to vitamin A . Therefore , the use of both vitamin A and isotretinoin capsules at the same time may lead to vitamin A related adverse reactions .
Patients treated with isotretinoin capsules should be advised against taking supplements containing Vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects .
7 . 2 Tetracyclines Concomitant treatment with isotretinoin capsules and tetracyclines should be avoided because isotretinoin use has been associated with a number of cases of intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) , some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Phenytoin Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia .
No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and isotretinoin .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when using these drugs together .
7 . 4 Systemic Corticosteroids Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis .
No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss with concomitant use of systemic corticosteroids and isotretinoin .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when using these drugs together .
7 . 5 Norethindrone and Ethinyl Estradiol In a trial of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol as an oral contraceptive agent , isotretinoin capsules within the recommended dosage , did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone , follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) .
Although this study did not show any clinically significant interaction between isotretinoin and norethindrone , it is not known if there is an interaction between isotretinoin with other progestins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in patients exposed to isotretinoin during pregnancy .
Report any suspected fetal exposure during or 1 month after isotretinoin therapy immediately to the FDA via the MedWatch telephone number 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 and also to the iPLEDGE pregnancy registry at 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or via the internet ( www . ipledgeprogram . com ) .
Risk Summary Isotretinoin is contraindicated during pregnancy because isotretinoin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant patient .
There is an increased risk of major congenital malformations , spontaneous abortions , and premature births following isotretinoin exposure during pregnancy in humans .
If isotretinoin is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking isotretinoin , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
If pregnancy occurs during treatment of a patient who is taking isotretinoin capsules , isotretinoin capsules must be discontinued immediately and the patient should be referred to an Obstetrician - Gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling .
Data Human Data Major congenital malformations that have been documented following isotretinoin exposure include malformations of the face , eyes , ears , skull , central nervous system , cardiovascular system , and thymus and parathyroid glands .
External malformations include : skull ; ear ( including anotia , micropinna , small or absent external auditory canals ) ; eye ( including microphthalmia ) ; facial dysmorphia and cleft palate .
Internal abnormalities include : CNS ( including cerebral and cerebellar malformations , hydrocephalus , microcephaly , cranial nerve deficit ) ; cardiovascular ; thymus gland ; parathyroid hormone deficiency .
In some cases , death has occurred as a result of the malformations .
Cases of IQ scores less than 85 with or without other abnormalities have been reported in children exposed in utero to isotretinoin .
An increased risk of spontaneous abortion and premature births have been reported with isotretinoin exposure during pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no data on the presence of isotretinoin in either animal or human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from isotretinoin , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with isotretinoin , and for at least 8 days after the last dose of isotretinoin capsules .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential All patients who can become pregnant must comply with the iPLEDGE REMS requirements [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Isotretinoin capsules must only be prescribed to patients who are known not to be pregnant as confirmed by a negative CLIA - certified laboratory conducted pregnancy test .
Patients who can become pregnant must have had two negative urine or serum pregnancy tests with a sensitivity of at least 25 mIU / mL before receiving the initial isotretinoin capsules prescription ( the interval between the two tests must be at least 19 days ) .
• The first test ( a screening test ) is obtained by the prescriber when the decision is made to prescribe isotretinoin therapy .
• The second pregnancy test ( a confirmation test ) is performed after the patient has used 2 forms of contraception for 1 month and during the first 5 days of the menstrual period immediately preceding the beginning of isotretinoin therapy ( for patients with regular menstrual cycles ) or immediately preceding the beginning of isotretinoin therapy ( for patients with amenorrhea , irregular cycles , or using a contraceptive method that precludes withdrawal bleeding ) .
A pregnancy test must be repeated each month , in a CLIA - certified laboratory prior to the patient receiving each prescription .
A pregnancy test must also be completed at the end of the entire course of isotretinoin therapy and 1 month after the discontinuation of isotretinoin capsules .
Contraception Patients who can become pregnant must use 2 forms of contraception simultaneously , at least 1 of which must be a primary form , for at least 1 month prior to initiation of isotretinoin therapy , during isotretinoin therapy , and for 1 month after discontinuing isotretinoin therapy .
However , 2 forms of contraception are not required if the patient commits to continuous abstinence from not having any sexual contact with a partner which may result in pregnancy , has undergone a hysterectomy or bilateral oophorectomy , or has been medically confirmed to be post - menopausal .
Micro - dosed progesterone preparations ( " minipills " that do not contain an estrogen ) are an inadequate method of contraception during isotretinoin therapy .
Primary forms Secondary forms • Tubal sterilization • Male vasectomy • Intrauterine device • Hormonal ( combination oral contraceptives , vaginal systems , vaginal inserts , transdermal systems , injections , or implants ) Barrier : • male latex condom with or without spermicide • diaphragm with spermicide • cervical cap with spermicide Other : • Vaginal sponge ( contains spermicide ) Any birth control method can fail .
There have been reports of pregnancy from patients who have used combination oral contraceptives , as well as contraceptive vaginal systems , vaginal inserts , transdermal systems , and injections ; these pregnancies occurred while taking isotretinoin .
These reports are more frequent for patients who use only a single method of contraception .
Therefore , it is critically important that patients who can become pregnant use 2 methods of contraception simultaneously .
A clinical drug interaction study did not show any clinically significant interaction between isotretinoin and norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ; however , it is not known if there is an interaction between isotretinoin with other progestins [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Prescribers are advised to consult the prescribing information of any medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives , since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products .
Patients who can become pregnant should be prospectively cautioned not to self - medicate with the herbal supplement St . John ' s Wort because of a possible interaction with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St . John ' s Wort .
Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St . John ' s Wort .
If the patient has unprotected sexual contact with a partner that could result in pregnancy at any time 1 month before , during , or 1 month after therapy , the patient must : • a . Stop taking isotretinoin immediately , if on therapy • b . Have a pregnancy test at least 19 days after the last act of unprotected sexual contact with a partner that could result in pregnancy • c . Start using 2 forms of contraception simultaneously again for 1 month before resuming isotretinoin therapy • d . Have a second pregnancy test after using 2 forms of contraception for 1 month .
Infertility In a trial of female acne patients ( n = 79 ) receiving another isotretinoin capsule product , the mean total ovarian volume , the total antral follicle count and mean anti - Mullerian hormone decreased at the end of the treatment ( sixth month ) .
However , the values returned to normal at the 18 th month ( 12 months after the end of treatment ) .
There were no statistically significant changes in terms of follicle - stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone , both at the end of the treatment and 12 months after the end of treatment .
Although the results suggest that possible deteriorative effects of isotretinoin on ovarian reserve may be reversible , the study has important methodological limitations , including a small sample size , lack of a control group , and lack of generalizability .
Sperm Study In trials of 66 men , 30 of whom were patients with nodular acne under treatment with oral isotretinoin , no significant changes were noted in the count or motility of spermatozoa in the ejaculate .
In a study of 50 men ( ages 17 to 32 years ) receiving isotretinoin therapy for nodular acne , no significant effects were seen on ejaculate volume , sperm count , total sperm motility , morphology or seminal plasma fructose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of isotretinoin for the treatment of severe recalcitrant nodular acne have been established in pediatric subjects ages 12 to 17 years .
Use of isotretinoin in this age group for this indication is supported by evidence from a clinical trial ( Study 1 ) that compared the use of isotretinoin to another isotretinoin capsule product in 397 pediatric subjects ( 12 to 17 years ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] and pharmacokinetic data in pediatric subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of isotretinoin in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age have not been established .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Subjects In trials with isotretinoin capsules , adverse reactions reported in pediatric subjects aged 12 to 17 years old were similar to those described in adults except for the increased incidence of back pain and arthralgia ( both of which were sometimes severe ) and myalgia in pediatric subjects .
In a trial of pediatric subjects aged 12 to 17 years old treated with isotretinoin capsules , approximately 29 % ( 104 / 358 ) developed back pain .
Back pain was severe in 14 % ( 14 / 104 ) of the cases and occurred at a higher frequency in female subjects than male subjects .
Arthralgias were experienced in 22 % ( 79 / 358 ) of pediatric subjects including severe arthralgias in 8 % ( 6 / 79 ) of subjects .
Appropriate evaluation of the musculoskeletal system should be done in adolescents who present with these symptoms during or after a course of isotretinoin .
Consider discontinuing isotretinoin capsules if any significant abnormality is found .
Effects on Bone Mineral Density in Pediatric Subjects The effect on bone mineral density ( BMD ) of a 20 - week course of therapy with isotretinoin or another isotretinoin capsule product was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized clinical trial involving 396 adolescents with severe recalcitrant nodular acne ( mean age 15 . 4 years old , range 12 to 17 years old , 80 % males ) .
Given that there were no statistically significant differences between the two isotretinoin capsule groups following 20 weeks of treatment , the results are presented for the pooled treatment groups .
The mean changes in BMD from baseline for the overall trial population were 1 . 8 % for lumbar spine , - 0 . 1 % for total hip and - 0 . 3 % for femoral neck .
Mean BMD Z - scores declined from baseline at each of these sites ( - 0 . 053 , - 0 . 109 and - 0 . 104 respectively ) .
Out of 306 adolescents , 27 ( 9 % ) had clinically significant BMD declines defined as ≥ 4 % lumbar spine or total hip , or ≥ 5 % femoral neck , including 2 subjects for lumbar spine , 17 for total hip and 20 for femoral neck .
Repeat DXA scans within 2 to 3 months after the post treatment scan showed no recovery of BMD .
Long - term follow - up at 4 to 11 months showed that 3 out of 7 subjects had total hip and femoral neck BMD below pre - treatment baseline , and 2 others did not show the increase in BMD above baseline expected in this adolescent population .
The significance of these changes in regard to long - term bone health and future fracture risk is unknown [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
In an open - label clinical trial ( N = 217 ) of a single course of therapy with isotretinoin capsules for adolescents with severe recalcitrant nodular acne , BMD at several skeletal sites were not significantly decreased ( lumbar spine change > - 4 % and total hip change > - 5 % ) or were increased in the majority of subjects .
One patient had a decrease in lumbar spine BMD > 4 % based on unadjusted data .
Sixteen ( 8 % ) subjects had decreases in lumbar spine BMD > 4 % , and all the other subjects ( 92 % ) did not have significant decreases or had increases ( adjusted for body mass index ) .
Nine subjects ( 5 % ) had a decrease in total hip BMD > 5 % based on unadjusted data .
Twenty - one ( 11 % ) subjects had decreases in total hip BMD > 5 % , and all the other subjects ( 89 % ) did not have significant decreases or had increases ( adjusted for body mass index ) .
Follow - up trials performed in 8 of the subjects with decreased BMD for up to 11 months thereafter demonstrated increasing BMD in 5 subjects at the lumbar spine , while the other 3 subjects had lumbar spine BMD measurements below baseline values .
Total hip BMD remained below baseline ( range - 1 . 6 % to - 7 . 6 % ) in 5 of 8 subjects ( 63 % ) .
In a separate open - label extension trial of 10 subjects including those ages 13 to 17 years , who started a second course of isotretinoin capsules 4 months after the first course , two subjects showed a decrease in mean lumbar spine BMD up to 3 . 3 % .
Epiphyseal Closure There are reports of premature epiphyseal closure in acne patients who used isotretinoin at recommended doses .
The effect of multiple courses of isotretinoin on epiphyseal closure is unknown .
In a 20 - week clinical trial that included 289 adolescents who had hand radiographs taken to assess bone age , a total of 9 subjects had bone age changes that were clinically significant and for which an isotretinoin - related effect cannot be excluded [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of isotretinoin did not include sufficient numbers of geriatric subjects ( subjects aged 65 years of age and older ) to determine whether they respond differently from younger adults .
Although reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between geriatric and younger adults , effects of aging may increase some risks associated with an isotretinoin therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE In humans , isotretinoin overdosage has been associated with vomiting , facial flushing , cheilosis , abdominal pain , headache , dizziness , and ataxia .
These symptoms quickly resolved without apparent residual effects .
Patients who can become pregnant who present with an isotretinoin overdosage should be evaluated for pregnancy .
Because an overdosage would be expected to result in higher levels of isotretinoin in semen than found during a normal treatment course , male patients treated with isotretinoin should use a condom , or avoid reproductive sexual activity with a patient who is or might become pregnant , for 1 month after the overdose .
All patients with isotretinoin overdose should not donate blood for at least 1 month .
11 DESCRIPTION Isotretinoin capsules , USP contain 10 mg , 20 mg or 30 mg of isotretinoin ( a retinoid ) in soft gelatin capsules for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , isotretinoin USP , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxyanisole , disodium edetate , hydrogenated vegetable oil Type I , hydrogenated vegetable oil Type II , soybean oil , vitamin E and yellow wax .
The gelatin capsules contain the following : • 10 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( yellow ) , sorbitol and titanium dioxide • 20 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( red ) , sorbitol and titanium dioxide • 30 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( red and yellow ) , ferrosoferric oxide , sorbitol and titanium dioxide Chemically , isotretinoin is 13 - cis - retinoic acid and is related to both retinoic acid and retinol ( vitamin A ) .
It is a yellow to orange crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 300 . 44 .
It is practically insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and sparingly soluble in alcohol and in isopropyl alcohol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Meets USP Dissolution Test 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Isotretinoin is a retinoid , which when administered at the recommended dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] , inhibits sebaceous gland function and keratinization .
Clinical improvement in nodular acne patients occurs in association with a reduction in sebum secretion .
The decrease in sebum secretion is temporary and is related to the dose and duration of treatment with isotretinoin capsules and reflects a reduction in sebaceous gland size and an inhibition of sebaceous gland differentiation .
The exact mechanism of action of isotretinoin in the treatment of severe recalcitrant nodular acne is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of isotretinoin are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of isotretinoin between patients with nodular acne and healthy subjects without acne were reported in published literature .
Absorption Following Isotretinoin Administration The isotretinoin mean Tmax was 6 . 4 hours under fed conditions and 2 . 9 hours under fasting conditions following administration of a single 40 mg dose .
Effect on Food No clinically significant differences in isotretinoin pharmacokinetics were observed following administration with a modified high - fat , high - calorie meal ( 123 . 2 calories from protein , 265 . 6 calories from carbohydrates , and 468 calories from fat ; total calories 857 calories ) with reduced vitamin A content .
The mean AUC0 – t and Cmax of isotretinoin were 6095 ng * hr / mL and 369 ng / mL , respectively , following administration of a single 40 mg isotretinoin dose under fed conditions ; which were approximately 50 % and 26 % higher , respectively , compared to fasting conditions .
However , isotretinoin may be given with or without meals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Isotretinoin is more than 99 . 9 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily albumin .
Elimination The mean elimination half - lives of isotretinoin and its 4 - oxo - isotretinoin metabolite were 18 hours and 38 hours , respectively , after a single oral isotretinoin 40 mg dose .
Metabolism : Isotretinoin is primarily metabolized by CYP2C8 , 2C9 , 3A4 , and 2B6 in vitro .
Isotretinoin and its metabolites are further metabolized into conjugates .
Following oral administration of isotretinoin capsules , at least three metabolites ( 4 - oxo - isotretinoin , retinoic acid ( tretinoin ) , and 4 - oxo - retinoic acid ( 4 - oxo - tretinoin ) ) have been identified in human plasma .
The extent of formation of all metabolites was higher under fed conditions .
All of these metabolites possess retinoid activity in vitro .
The clinical significance is unknown .
Excretion : Following oral administration of an 80 mg dose of radiolabeled - isotretinoin as a liquid suspension , the metabolites of isotretinoin were excreted in feces and urine in relatively equal amounts ( total of 65 % to 83 % ) .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients : No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of isotretinoin were observed based on age ( 12 to 15 years ( n = 38 ) , and ≥ 18 years ( n = 19 ) ) .
In both age groups , 4 - oxo - isotretinoin was the major metabolite ; tretinoin and 4 - oxo - tretinoin were also observed [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin ( CYP2C9 substrate ) were observed when used concomitantly with isotretinoin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In male and female Fischer 344 rats given oral isotretinoin at dosages of 8 or 32 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 or 5 . 3 times the recommended clinical isotretinoin dosage of 1 mg / kg / day , respectively , after normalization for total body surface area ) for greater than 18 months , there was a dose - related increased incidence of pheochromocytoma relative to controls .
The incidence of adrenal medullary hyperplasia was also increased at the higher dosage in both sexes .
The relatively high level of spontaneous pheochromocytomas occurring in the male Fischer 344 rat makes it an equivocal model for study of this tumor ; therefore , the relevance of this tumor to humans is uncertain .
The Ames test was conducted with isotretinoin in two laboratories .
The results of the tests in one laboratory were negative , while in the second laboratory , a weakly positive response ( less than 1 . 6 times background ) was noted in S . typhimurium TA100 when the assay was conducted with metabolic activation .
No dose response effect was seen , and all other strains were negative .
Additionally , other tests designed to assess genotoxicity ( Chinese hamster cell assay , mouse micronucleus test , S . cerevisiae D7 assay , in vitro clastogenesis assay with human - derived lymphocytes , and unscheduled DNA synthesis assay ) were all negative .
In rats , no adverse effects on gonadal function , fertility , conception rate , gestation or parturition were observed at oral dosages of isotretinoin of 2 , 8 , or 32 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 3 , 1 . 3 , or 5 . 3 times the recommended clinical isotretinoin dosage of 1 mg / kg / day , respectively , after normalization for total body surface area ) .
In dogs , testicular atrophy was noted after treatment with oral isotretinoin for approximately 30 weeks at dosages of 20 or 60 mg / kg / day ( 10 or 30 times the recommended clinical isotretinoin dosage of 1 mg / kg / day , respectively , after normalization for total body surface area ) .
In general , there was microscopic evidence for appreciable depression of spermatogenesis , but some sperm were observed in all testes examined , and in no instance were completely atrophic tubules seen .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology In rats given 8 or 32 mg / kg / day of isotretinoin ( 1 . 3 or 5 . 3 times the recommended clinical isotretinoin dosage of 1 mg / kg / day , respectively , after normalization for total body surface area ) for 18 months or longer , the incidences of focal calcification , fibrosis and inflammation of the myocardium , calcification of coronary , pulmonary and mesenteric arteries , and metastatic calcification of the gastric mucosa were greater than in control rats of similar age .
Focal endocardial and myocardial calcifications associated with calcification of the coronary arteries were observed in two dogs after approximately 6 to 7 months of treatment with isotretinoin at a dosage of 60 to 120 mg / kg / day ( 30 to 60 times the recommended clinical isotretinoin dosage of 1 mg / kg / day , respectively , after normalization for total body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of isotretinoin for the treatment of severe recalcitrant nodular acne in patients 12 years of age and older has been established and is based on a double - blind , randomized , parallel group trial ( Study 1 ) in subjects with severe recalcitrant nodular acne who received isotretinoin or another isotretinoin capsule product under fed conditions .
A total of 925 subjects were randomized 1 : 1 to receive isotretinoin or another isotretinoin capsule product .
Study subjects ranged from 12 to 54 years of age ( including 397 pediatric subjects 12 to 17 years old ) ; 60 % were male , 40 % were female ; and the racial groups included 87 % White , 4 % Black , 6 % Asian , and 3 % Other .
Enrolled subjects had a weight of 40 to 110 kg and had at least 10 nodular lesions on the face and / or trunk .
Subjects were treated with an initial dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in two divided doses for the first 4 weeks , followed by 1 mg / kg / day in two divided doses for the following 16 weeks .
Change from baseline to Week 20 in total nodular lesion count and proportion of subjects with at least a 90 % reduction in total nodular lesion count from baseline to Week 20 are presented in Table 3 .
Total nodular lesion counts by visit are presented in Figure 1 .
A single course of isotretinoin and another isotretinoin capsule product therapy for 15 to 20 weeks has been shown to result in complete and prolonged remission of acne in many patients .
Table 3 : Efficacy Results in Subjects with Severe Recalcitrant Nodular Acne at Week 20 ( Study 1 ) Isotretinoin N = 464 Another Isotretinoin Capsule Product * N = 461 Nodular Lesions Mean Baseline Count 18 . 4 17 . 7 Mean Reduction - 15 . 68 - 15 . 62 Subjects Achieving 90 % Reduction , n ( % ) 324 ( 70 % ) 344 ( 75 % ) * Another isotretinoin capsule product .
Figure 1 : Total Nodular ( Facial and Truncal ) Lesion Count in Subjects with Severe Recalcitrant Nodular Acne by Visit in Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • Cinar SL , Kartal D , Aksoy H , et al .
Long - term effect of systemic isotretinoin on female fertility .
Cutan Ocul Toxicol .
2017 ; 36 ( 2 ) : 132 – 134 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Isotretinoin Capsules , USP are supplied as follows : • 10 mg : Yellow , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 570 " in black ink .
Box of 30 capsules ( 3 × 10 Prescription Packs ) : NDC 68308 - 570 - 30 • 20 mg : Pink , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 571 " in black ink .
Box of 30 capsules ( 3 × 10 Prescription Packs ) : NDC 68308 - 571 - 30 • 30 mg : Brown , oblong , opaque , soft gelatin capsule , containing a yellow / orange viscous liquid , imprinted " 573 " in black ink .
Box of 30 capsules ( 3 × 10 Prescription Packs ) : NDC 68308 - 573 - 30 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity There is an extremely high risk of life - threatening birth defects when isotretinoin is used in pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients who can become pregnant that they must not be pregnant during or up to one month after isotretinoin therapy .
Instruct patients to not donate blood during isotretinoin therapy and for 1 month following discontinuation to avoid blood donation to a pregnant patient .
iPLEDGE Isotretinoin capsules are available only through a restricted program called iPLEDGE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients who can become pregnant of the following notable requirements .
These patients must : • Sign an informed consent form to be enrolled in the program • Comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] • Demonstrate comprehension of the safe - use conditions of the program every month • Obtain the prescription within 7 days of the pregnancy test collection Inform patients who cannot become pregnant of the following notable requirements .
These patients must sign an informed consent form to enroll in the program and they must obtain the prescription within 30 days of the office visit .
Isotretinoin is available only from certified pharmacies participating in the program .
Therefore , provide patients with the telephone number and website for information on how to obtain isotretinoin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Lactation Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from isotretinoin , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with isotretinoin capsules , and for at least 8 days after the last dose of isotretinoin capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Psychiatric Disorders Instruct patients and / or their caregivers / families that isotretinoin may cause depression , psychosis , suicidal ideation , suicide attempts , and aggressive or violent behavior .
Instruct patients to read the Recognizing Psychiatric Disorders in Adolescents and Young Adults brochure prior to taking isotretinoin capsules .
Instruct patients to stop isotretinoin capsules and to contact a healthcare provider if they develop any of these signs or symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions To decrease the risk of esophageal irritation , instruct patients to swallow the capsules with a full glass of liquid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Intracranial Hypertension ( Pseudotumor Cerebri ) Advise patients that intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) has occurred with isotretinoin use including concomitant use with tetracyclines .
Thus , advise patients to avoid concomitant use with tetracyclines and to discontinue isotretinoin capsules immediately if they have symptoms of intracranial hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Serious Skin Reactions Advise patients that severe skin reactions ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported in patients treated with isotretinoin and to discontinue isotretinoin capsules if clinically significant skin reactions occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Advise patients that inflammatory bowel disease ( including regional ileitis ) have occurred with isotretinoin use including those without a prior history of IBD and if they experience IBD symptoms , they should discontinue isotretinoin capsules immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Musculoskeletal Abnormalities Inform patients that : • There have been reports of osteoporosis and fractures and that isotretinoin may have a negative effect on bone mineral density [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
• Isotretinoin use has been associated with musculoskeletal abnormalities ( e . g . , arthralgia , back pain ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Inform adolescents and their families that isotretinoin use in adolescents who participated in sports with repetitive impact increase their risk of spondylolisthesis or hip growth plate injuries [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Inform pediatric patients and their caregivers that pediatric patients treated with isotretinoin capsules developed back pain including severe back pain , and arthralgias including severe arthralgias [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Ocular Abnormalities Inform patients that they may experience dry eyes , corneal opacities , and decreased night vision and contact lens wearers may experience decreased tolerance to contact lenses during and after therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Rhabdomyolysis Inform patients there have been rare post - marketing reports of rhabdomyolysis in patients treated with isotretinoin capsules , some associated with strenuous physical activity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Given that anaphylactic reactions and other allergic reactions have been reported in patients treated with isotretinoin capsules , instruct the patient to discontinue isotretinoin capsules and contact their healthcare provider if they have a severe allergic reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
Lipid Abnormalities Instruct patients that hypertriglyceridemia , decreased HDL , and increased cholesterol levels were reported in patients treated with isotretinoin capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Additional Instructions Inform patients : • To not share isotretinoin capsules with anyone else because of the risk of birth defects and other serious adverse reactions .
• That transient exacerbation ( flare ) of acne has been seen , generally during the initial period of therapy .
• That wax epilation and skin resurfacing procedures ( such as dermabrasion , laser ) should be avoided during isotretinoin therapy and for at least 6 months thereafter due to the possibility of scarring .
• To avoid prolonged exposure to UV rays or sunlight .
Medication Guides available at products . maynepharma . com or call 1 - 844 - 825 - 8500 .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Raleigh , NC 27609 Product of Germany , Manufactured in New Zealand Issued : 9 / 2022 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 9 / 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE Isotretinoin ( eye '' soe tret ' i noyn ) Capsules , USP Read the Medication Guide that comes with isotretinoin capsules before you start taking it and each time you get a prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about isotretinoin capsules ?
• Isotretinoin capsules can harm your unborn baby , including birth defects ( deformed babies ) , loss of a baby before birth ( miscarriage ) , death of the baby , and early ( premature ) births .
Patients who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant must not take isotretinoin capsules .
Patients must not get pregnant : • for 1 month before starting isotretinoin capsules • during treatment with isotretinoin capsules • for 1 month after stopping isotretinoin capsules If you get pregnant during treatment with isotretinoin capsules , stop taking it right away and call your healthcare provider .
Healthcare providers and patients should report all cases of pregnancy during treatment or 1 month after stopping treatment to : • FDA MedWatch at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 , and • the iPLEDGE Pregnancy Registry at 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or www . ipledgeprogram . com Because isotretinoin capsules can cause birth defects , isotretinoin capsules are only for patients who can understand and agree to carry out all of the instructions in the iPLEDGE REMS .
• Serious mental health problems , including : • depression • psychosis ( seeing or hearing things that are not real ) • suicide .
Some patients taking isotretinoin capsules have had thoughts about hurting themselves or putting an end to their own lives ( suicidal thoughts ) .
Some people tried to end their own lives .
Some people have ended their own lives .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away if you or a family member notices that you have any of the following signs and symptoms of depression or psychosis : • start to feel sad or have crying spells • lose interest in activities you once enjoyed • sleep too much or have trouble sleeping • become more irritable , angry , or aggressive than usual ( for example , temper outbursts , thoughts of violence ) • have a change in your appetite or body weight • have trouble concentrating • withdraw from your friends or family • feel like you have no energy • have feelings of worthlessness or guilt • start having thoughts about hurting yourself or taking your own life ( suicidal thoughts ) • start acting on dangerous impulses • start seeing or hearing things that are not real Your healthcare provider may tell you to see a mental healthcare professional if you had any of these symptoms .
What are isotretinoin capsules ?
Isotretinoin capsules are prescription medicines used in patients 12 years of age and older , who are not pregnant , for the treatment of severe acne ( nodular acne ) that cannot be cleared up by any other acne treatments , including antibiotics .
Isotretinoin capsules can cause serious side effects ( see " What is the most important information I should know about isotretinoin capsules ? " )
.
Isotretinoin capsules can only be : • prescribed by healthcare providers that are enrolled in the iPLEDGE REMS • dispensed by a pharmacy that is enrolled with the iPLEDGE REMS • given to patients who are enrolled in the iPLEDGE REMS and agree to do everything required in the program .
It is not known if isotretinoin capsules are safe and effective in children less than 12 years of age .
Do not take isotretinoin capsules if you : • are pregnant , plan to become pregnant , or become pregnant during isotretinoin capsules treatment .
Isotretinoin capsules cause life - threatening birth defects .
See " What is the most important information I should know about isotretinoin capsules ? "
• are allergic to isotretinoin , vitamin A , or any of the ingredients in isotretinoin capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in isotretinoin capsules .
Before taking isotretinoin capsules , tell your healthcare provider if you or a family member has any of the following health conditions : • mental health problems • asthma • liver problems • diabetes • heart disease • increase blood fat levels ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) • bone loss ( osteoporosis ) , weak bones or any other bone problems • an eating problem called anorexia nervosa ( where people eat too little ) • food or medicine allergies , including aspirin or tartrazine Tell your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
Do not breastfeed during treatment or for at least 8 days after the last dose of isotretinoin capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements , including St . John ' s Wort .
Isotretinoin capsules and certain other medicines can affect each other , sometimes causing serious side effects .
Do not take the following medicines during treatment with isotretinoin capsules : • vitamin A supplements • tetracycline antibiotics Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not take any new medicine without talking with your healthcare provider .
How should I take isotretinoin capsules ?
You must take isotretinoin capsules exactly as prescribed .
You must also follow all the instructions of the iPLEDGE REMS .
Before prescribing isotretinoin capsules , your healthcare provider will : • explain the iPLEDGE REMS to you • have you sign the Patient Information / Informed Consent form ( for all patients ) .
Patients who can get pregnant must also sign another consent form .
• give you a pregnancy test to make sure you are not pregnant before you start isotretinoin capsules .
You will receive 2 pregnancy tests at least 19 days apart .
You will not be prescribed isotretinoin capsules if you cannot agree to or follow all the instructions of the iPLEDGE REMS .
• You will get no more than a 30 - day supply of isotretinoin capsules at a time .
This is to make sure you are following the isotretinoin capsules iPLEDGE REMS .
• The amount of isotretinoin capsules you take has been specially chosen for you .
It is based on your body weight and may change during treatment .
• Take isotretinoin capsules 2 times a day with or without meals , unless your healthcare provider tells you otherwise .
Swallow your isotretinoin capsules whole with a full glass of liquid .
Do not chew or suck on the capsule .
Isotretinoin capsules can hurt the tube that connects your mouth to your stomach ( esophagus ) if not swallowed whole .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how long you will receive treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
Your acne may continue to improve after treatment .
• If you miss a dose , just skip that dose .
Do not take two doses at the same time .
• If you take too much isotretinoin capsules , call your healthcare provider or poison control center right away .
• Your acne may get worse when you first start taking isotretinoin capsules .
This should last only a short while .
Talk with your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
• You must return to your healthcare provider as directed to make sure you do n't have signs of serious side effects .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check for serious side effects from isotretinoin capsules and may stop treatment if you get certain side effects .
• Patients who can get pregnant will get a pregnancy test each month , after you finish your course of treatment , and 1 month after you stop treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
• Patients who can get pregnant must use two separate forms of birth control at the same time for at least 1 month before , during treatment , and for 1 month after treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
You must access the iPLEDGE REMS system to answer questions about the program requirements and to enter your two chosen forms of birth control .
To access the iPLEDGE REMS system , go to www . ipledgeprogram . com or call 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 .
Talk about birth control options with your healthcare provider or go for a free visit to talk about birth control with another healthcare provider or family planning expert .
Your healthcare provider can arrange this free visit , which will be paid for by the company that makes isotretinoin capsules .
If you have sex at any time without using two forms of birth control 1 month before , during , or 1 month after treatment , get pregnant , or miss your expected period , stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away .
What should I avoid while taking isotretinoin capsules ?
• Do not give blood during treatment with isotretinoin capsules and for one month after stopping isotretinoin capsules .
If someone who is pregnant gets your donated blood , their baby may be exposed to isotretinoin and may be born with birth defects .
• Do not take other medicines or herbal products with isotretinoin capsules unless you talk to your healthcare provider .
See " Before taking isotretinoin capsules " .
• Do not drive at night until you know if isotretinoin capsules have affected your vision .
Isotretinoin capsules may decrease your ability to see in the dark .
• Do not have cosmetic procedures to smooth your skin , including waxing , dermabrasion , or laser procedures , during treatment with isotretinoin capsules and for at least 6 months after you stop .
Isotretinoin capsules can increase your chance of scarring from these procedures .
Check with your healthcare provider for advice about when you can have cosmetic procedures .
• Avoid sunlight and ultraviolet lights as much as possible .
Tanning machines use ultraviolet lights .
Isotretinoin capsules may make your skin more sensitive to light .
• Do not share isotretinoin capsules with other people .
Isotretinoin capsules can cause birth defects and other serious health problems .
What are the possible side effects of isotretinoin capsules ?
Isotretinoin capsules can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about isotretinoin capsules ? "
• increased pressure in the brain ( intracranial hypertension ) .
Isotretinoin capsules can increase the pressure in your brain .
This can lead to permanent loss of eyesight , and in rare cases , death .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of these signs of increased brain pressure : • bad headache • blurred vision • dizziness • nausea or vomiting • seizures ( convulsions ) • stroke • serious skin problems .
Skin rash can occur in patients taking isotretinoin capsules .
Sometimes rash can be serious and may lead to death .
Stop using isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away if you get : • conjunctivitis ( red or inflamed eyes , like " pink eye " ) • rash with a fever • blisters on legs , arms or face • sores in your mouth , throat , nose or eyes • peeling of your skin • inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) can happen in patients who take isotretinoin capsules and can lead to death .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms of pancreatitis : • severe upper stomach ( abdomen ) pain • swelling of your stomach • nausea and vomiting • fever • increased blood fat ( lipid ) levels .
Isotretinoin capsules can raise blood fat levels ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your lipids before and during treatment .
These problems usually go away when isotretinoin capsules treatment is finished .
• hearing problems .
Stop using isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider if your hearing gets worse or if you have ringing in your ears .
Your hearing loss may be permanent .
• liver problems , including hepatitis .
Your healthcare provider will do tests to check your liver before and during treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
Call your healthcare provider if you get : • yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes • pain on the right side of your stomach area ( abdomen ) • dark urine • bleeding or bruising more easily than normal • inflammation of your digestive tract ( inflammatory bowel disease ) .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider if you get : • severe stomach , chest or bowel pain • nausea or vomiting • trouble swallowing or painful swallowing • new or worsening heartburn • diarrhea • rectal bleeding • bone and muscle problems .
Bone problems include bone pain , softening or thinning ( which may lead to fractures ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if you plan hard physical activity during treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get : • back pain • joint pain or muscle pain • broken bone .
Tell all healthcare providers that you take isotretinoin capsules if you break a bone .
Stop isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away if you have muscle weakness .
Muscle weakness with or without pain can be a sign of serious muscle damage .
Isotretinoin capsules may stop long bone growth in teenagers who are still growing .
• vision problems .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any vision changes .
Isotretinoin capsules may affect your ability to see in the dark .
This usually goes away after you stop taking isotretinoin capsules , but it may be permanent .
Some patients get dry eyes during treatment .
If you wear contact lenses , you may have trouble wearing them during and after you stop treatment with isotretinoin capsules .
• serious allergic reactions .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and get emergency medical help right away if you get hives , a swollen face or mouth , or have trouble breathing .
Stop taking isotretinoin capsules and call your healthcare provider if you get a fever , rash , or red patches or bruises on your legs .
• blood sugar problems , including diabetes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are very thirsty or urinate more than usual .
The most common side effects of isotretinoin capsules include : • dry lips • dry skin • back pain • dry eyes • joint pain • nose bleeds • headache • upper respiratory tract infection ( common cold ) • chapped lips or swelling of the lips • skin reactions • muscle problems • eye problems , including decreased vision These are not all of the possible side effects of isotretinoin capsules .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 855 - 899 - 9180 .
How should I store isotretinoin capsules ?
• Store isotretinoin capsules at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
Keep isotretinoin capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of isotretinoin capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use isotretinoin capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give isotretinoin capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about isotretinoin capsules that is written for health professionals .
You can also call iPLEDGE REMS at 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or visit www . ipledgeprogram . com .
What are the ingredients in isotretinoin capsules ?
Active ingredient : isotretinoin Inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxyanisole , disodium edetate , hydrogenated vegetable oil Type I , hydrogenated vegetable oil Type II , soybean oil , vitamin E and yellow wax .
The gelatin capsules contain the following : 10 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( yellow ) , sorbitol and titanium dioxide ; 20 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( red ) , sorbitol and titanium dioxide ; 30 mg – glycerin , iron oxide ( red and yellow ) , ferrosoferric oxide , sorbitol and titanium dioxide .
All trademarks are property of their respective owners .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Raleigh , NC 27609 Product of Germany , Manufactured in New Zealand Medication Guides available at products . maynepharma . com or call 1 - 844 - 825 - 8500 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Capsule Blister Pack Box NDC 68308 - 570 - 30 Isotretinoin Capsules , USP 10 mg Each capsule contains : Isotretinoin , USP 10 mg Rx only 30 Capsules ( 3 x 10 Prescription Packs ) mayne pharma Attention Pharmacist : Dispense with enclosed Medication Guide .
CAUSES BIRTH DEFECTS DO NOT GET PREGNANT Special Instructions to Pharmacists : • Only fill isotretinoin after authorization from the iPLEDGE Program by calling 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or visiting www . ipledgeprogram . com • Dispense no more than a 30 - day supply • An isotretinoin Medication Guide is included in each Prescription Pack • Dispense Prescription Packs intact • Do not remove Prescription Packs from carton until dispensed [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Capsule Blister Pack Box NDC 68308 - 571 - 30 Isotretinoin Capsules , USP 20 mg Each capsule contains : Isotretinoin , USP 20 mg Rx only 30 Capsules ( 3 x 10 Prescription Packs ) mayne pharma Attention Pharmacist : Dispense with enclosed Medication Guide .
CAUSES BIRTH DEFECTS DO NOT GET PREGNANT Special Instructions to Pharmacists : • Only fill isotretinoin after authorization from the iPLEDGE Program by calling 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or visiting www . ipledgeprogram . com • Dispense no more than a 30 - day supply • An isotretinoin Medication Guide is included in each Prescription Pack • Dispense Prescription Packs intact • Do not remove Prescription Packs from carton until dispensed [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mg Capsule Blister Pack Box NDC 68308 - 573 - 30 Isotretinoin Capsules , USP 30 mg Each capsule contains : Isotretinoin , USP 30 mg Rx only 30 Capsules ( 3 x 10 Prescription Packs ) mayne pharma Attention Pharmacist : Dispense with enclosed Medication Guide .
CAUSES BIRTH DEFECTS DO NOT GET PREGNANT Special Instructions to Pharmacists : • Only fill isotretinoin after authorization from the iPLEDGE Program by calling 1 - 866 - 495 - 0654 or visiting www . ipledgeprogram . com • Dispense no more than a 30 - day supply • An isotretinoin Medication Guide is included in each Prescription Pack • Dispense Prescription Packs intact • Do not remove Prescription Packs from carton until dispensed [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
