Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 1 / 2021 Dosage and Administration , Dosing Information ( 2 . 1 ) 3 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GOCOVRI ® is indicated : • For the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease receiving levodopa - based therapy , with or without concomitant dopaminergic medications • As adjunctive treatment to levodopa / carbidopa in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease experiencing “ off ” episodes GOCOVRI ® is indicated : • For the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease receiving levodopa - based therapy , with or without concomitant dopaminergic medications ( 1 ) • As adjunctive treatment to levodopa / carbidopa in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease experiencing “ off ” episodes ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer orally once daily at bedtime ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • The initial daily dosage is 137 mg ; after 1 week , increase to the recommended daily dosage of 274 mg ( 2 . 1 ) • Swallow whole ; may sprinkle contents on soft food ( 2 . 2 ) • May be taken with or without food ; avoid use with alcohol ( 2 . 2 ) • A lower dosage is recommended for patients with moderate or severe renal impairment ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information The initial daily dosage of GOCOVRI is 137 mg , administered orally once daily at bedtime .
After one week , increase to the recommended dosage of 274 mg ( two 137 mg capsules ) once daily at bedtime .
GOCOVRI is not interchangeable with other amantadine immediate - or extended - release products .
2 . 2 Administration Information GOCOVRI should be swallowed whole .
Do not crush , chew or divide capsules .
If needed , GOCOVRI may be administered by carefully opening and sprinkling the entire contents on a small amount ( teaspoonful ) of soft food , such as applesauce .
The drug / food mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing .
Do not store mixture for future use .
GOCOVRI can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Concomitant use of GOCOVRI with alcohol is not recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
It is recommended to avoid sudden discontinuation of GOCOVRI [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The initial and maximum recommended daily dosage of GOCOVRI for patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance estimated by Modification of Diet in Renal Disease ( MDRD ) method ) is provided below .
1 Increase , if needed , after one week of the initial dosage Creatinine Clearance Dosage Mild renal impairment ( 60 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) Initial dosage : 137 mg once daily at bedtime .
After one week , increase to recommended dosage of 274 mg once daily at bedtime .
Moderate renal impairment ( 30 to 59 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) Initial dosage : 68 . 5 mg once daily at bedtime Maximum recommended dosage : 137 mg once daily at bedtime1 Severe renal impairment ( 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) 68 . 5 mg once daily at bedtime End Stage Renal Disease ( below 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) Contraindicated 2 . 4 Discontinuation and Missed Dose Rapid dose reduction or withdrawal of GOCOVRI may cause adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Therefore , to discontinue GOCOVRI in patients who have been on the drug for more than 4 weeks , GOCOVRI dosage should , if possible , be reduced by half for the final week of dosing .
If a dose of GOCOVRI is missed , the next dose should be taken as scheduled .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GOCOVRI is available as extended - release capsules for oral administration .
Each capsule contains 68 . 5 mg or 137 mg of amantadine .
The 68 . 5 mg capsule is a white opaque size # 2 capsule , with black printing of ‘ ADAMAS ’ on front and ‘ 85 ’ on back of the cap and three black bands printed on body of capsule .
The 137 mg capsule is a light blue opaque size # 0 capsule , with black printing of ‘ ADAMAS ’ on front and ‘ 170 ’ on back of the cap and three black bands printed on body of capsule .
Extended - release capsules : 68 . 5 mg and 137 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS GOCOVRI is contraindicated in patients with end - stage renal disease ( i . e . , creatinine clearance below 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
GOCOVRI is contraindicated in patients with end - stage renal disease ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living : Advise patients prior to treatment ; ordinarily discontinue if occurs ( 5 . 1 ) • Suicidality and Depression : Monitor patients for depressed mood , depression , or suicidal ideation or behavior ( 5 . 2 ) • Hallucinations / Psychotic Behavior : Patients with major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with GOCOVRI ; observe patients for the occurrence of hallucinations throughout treatment , especially at initiation and after dose increases ( 5 . 3 ) • Dizziness and Orthostatic Hypotension : Monitor patients for dizziness and orthostatic hypotension , especially after starting GOCOVRI or increasing the dose ( 5 . 4 ) • Withdrawal - Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion : Avoid sudden discontinuation ( 5 . 5 ) • Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors : Ask patients about increased gambling urges , sexual urges , uncontrolled spending or other urges ; consider dose reduction or discontinuation if occurs ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients treated for Parkinson ’ s disease have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living , including the operation of motor vehicles , which sometimes has resulted in accidents .
Patients may not perceive warning signs , such as excessive drowsiness , or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event .
In controlled clinical trials , somnolence and fatigue were reported as adverse reactions in 4 % of patients treated with GOCOVRI 274 mg and 1 % for placebo .
Before initiating treatment with GOCOVRI , advise patients of the potential to develop drowsiness and specifically ask about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence with GOCOVRI , such as concomitant sedating medications or the presence of a sleep disorder .
If a patient develops daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require full attention ( e . g . , driving a motor vehicle , conversations , eating ) , GOCOVRI should ordinarily be discontinued .
If a decision is made to continue GOCOVRI , patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities .
There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living or daytime somnolence .
5 . 2 Suicidality and Depression In controlled clinical trials , suicidal ideation or suicide attempt was reported in 2 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Depression or depressed mood was reported in 6 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
Confusional state was reported in 3 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
Apathy was reported in 2 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Monitor patients for depression , including suicidal ideation or behavior .
Prescribers should consider whether the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment with GOCOVRI in patients with a history of suicidality or depression .
5 . 3 Hallucinations / Psychotic Behavior Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with GOCOVRI because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis .
In controlled trials , the incidence of patients who experienced visual hallucinations , auditory hallucinations , delusions , illusions , or paranoia was 25 % in patients treated with GOCOVRI 274 mg , and 3 % in placebo - treated patients .
Hallucinations caused discontinuation of treatment in 8 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients , and in 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Observe patients for the occurrence of hallucinations throughout treatment , especially at initiation , and after dose increases .
5 . 4 Dizziness and Orthostatic Hypotension In controlled clinical trials , 29 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and 2 % of placebo - treated patients experienced dizziness , syncope , orthostatic hypotension , presyncope , postural dizziness or hypotension .
In GOCOVRI - treated patients , 3 % discontinued study treatment because of dizziness , postural dizziness , or syncope , compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Monitor patients for dizziness and orthostatic hypotension , especially after starting GOCOVRI or increasing the dose .
Concomitant use of alcohol when using GOCOVRI is not recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Withdrawal - Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion A symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( characterized by elevated temperature , muscular rigidity , altered consciousness , and autonomic instability ) , with no other obvious etiology , has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction , withdrawal of , or changes in drugs that increase central dopaminergic tone .
Abrupt discontinuation of GOCOVRI may cause an increase in the symptoms of Parkinson ’ s disease or cause delirium , agitation , delusions , hallucinations , paranoid reaction , stupor , anxiety , depression , or slurred speech .
It is recommended to avoid sudden discontinuation of GOCOVRI [ see Dosing Information ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors Patients can experience intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , intense urges to spend money , binge eating , and / or other intense urges , and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications , including GOCOVRI , that increase central dopaminergic tone .
In some cases , these urges were reported to have stopped when the dose was reduced or the medication was discontinued .
Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal , it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges , uncontrolled spending , or other urges while being treated with GOCOVRI .
Consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking GOCOVRI .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in more detail elsewhere in the labeling : • Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Suicidality and Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hallucinations / Psychotic Behavior [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Dizziness and Orthostatic Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Withdrawal - Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The most commonly observed adverse reactions occurring at a frequency of > 10 % and greater than placebo were hallucination , dizziness , dry mouth , peripheral edema , constipation , fall , and orthostatic hypotension ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Adamas Pharma , LLC at 1 - 833 - 223 - 2627 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 .
Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Placebo - Controlled Trials GOCOVRI was evaluated in two double - blind , placebo - controlled efficacy trials of similar design and population : Study 1 ( 123 patients ) and Study 2 ( 75 patients ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The study population was approximately 56 % male and 94 % white , with a mean age of 65 years ( age range from 34 years to 82 years ) .
The mean duration of levodopa - induced dyskinesia was 4 years ( range 0 . 1 to 14 years ) .
Active treatment started at 137 mg once daily for one week , followed by a dose increase to 274 mg once daily .
The treatment duration was 25 weeks for Study 1 and 13 weeks for Study 2 .
Of the 100 patients in the safety population described below , 39 patients were treated with GOCOVRI for 24 weeks .
The safety data for these trials were pooled .
The most common adverse reactions reported in > 10 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients and more frequently than on placebo were : hallucinations , dizziness , dry mouth , peripheral edema , constipation , falls , and orthostatic hypotension .
The overall rate of discontinuation because of adverse reactions for GOCOVRI - treated patients was 20 % , compared to 8 % for placebo - treated patients .
Adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation in at least 2 % of patients were hallucinations ( 8 % GOCOVRI vs . 0 % placebo ) , dry mouth ( 3 % GOCOVRI vs . 0 % placebo ) , peripheral edema ( 3 % GOCOVRI vs . 0 % placebo ) , blurred vision ( GOCOVRI 3 % vs . 0 % placebo ) , postural dizziness and syncope ( GOCOVRI 2 % vs . 0 % placebo ) , abnormal dreams ( GOCOVRI 2 % vs . 1 % placebo ) , dysphagia ( GOCOVRI 2 % vs . 0 % placebo ) , and gait disturbance ( GOCOVRI 2 % vs . 0 % placebo ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported for ≥ 3 % of Patients Treated with 274 mg GOCOVRI in Study 1 and Study 2 ( Pooled Analysis ) a = Includes visual hallucinations and auditory hallucinations b = Includes anxiety and generalized anxiety c = Includes orthostatic hypotension , postural dizziness , syncope , presyncope , and hypotension d = The denominator is all male patients in the safety population randomized to GOCOVRI ( n = 54 ) or placebo ( n = 57 ) Adverse Reactions GOCOVRI 274 mg N = 100 % Placebo N = 98 % Psychiatric disorders Hallucinationsa 21 3 Anxietyb 7 3 Insomnia 7 2 Depression / Depressed mood 6 1 Abnormal dreams 4 2 Confusional state 3 2 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 16 1 Headache 6 4 Dystonia 3 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 16 1 Constipation 13 3 Nausea 8 3 Vomiting 3 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Peripheral edema 16 1 Gait disturbance 3 0 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Fall 13 7 Contusion 6 1 Infections and infestations Urinary tract infection 10 5 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Livedo reticularis 6 0 Pigmentation disorder 3 0 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 6 1 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotensionc 13 1 Eye disorders Blurred vision 4 1 Cataract 3 1 Dry eye 3 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Joint swelling 3 0 Muscle spasms 3 0 Reproductive system and breast disorders Benign prostatic hyperplasiad 6 2 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 3 0 Other clinically relevant adverse reactions observed at < 3 % included somnolence , fatigue , suicide ideation or attempt , apathy , delusions , illusions , and paranoia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Difference in the Frequency of Adverse Reactions by Gender Adverse reactions reported more frequently in women treated with 274 mg of GOCOVRI ( n = 46 ) , compared to men ( n = 54 ) , were : dry mouth ( 22 % women , 11 % men ) , nausea ( 13 % women , 4 % men ) , livedo reticularis ( 13 % women , 0 % men ) , abnormal dreams ( 9 % women , 0 % men ) and cataracts ( 7 % women , 0 % men ) .
Men treated with 274 mg of GOCOVRI reported the following adverse reactions more frequently than women : dizziness ( 20 % men , 11 % women ) , peripheral edema ( 19 % men , 11 % women ) , anxiety ( 11 % men , 2 % women ) , orthostatic hypotension ( 7 % men , 2 % women ) and gait disturbance ( 6 % men , 0 % women ) .
Difference in the Frequency of Adverse Reactions by Age Hallucinations ( visual or auditory ) were reported in 31 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients age 65 years and over ( n = 52 ) , compared to 10 % in patients below the age of 65 years ( n = 48 ) .
Falls were reported in 17 % of GOCOVRI - treated patients age 65 and over , compared to 8 % of patients below age 65 .
Orthostatic hypotension was reported in 8 % of patients age 65 and over , compared to 2 % of patients below age 65 .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of GOCOVRI .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Nervous System Disorders : Seizure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Other Anticholinergic Drugs : Doses should be reduced if atropine - like effects occur ( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs Affecting Urinary pH : Excretion increases with acidic urine ; possible accumulation with urine change towards alkaline ( 7 . 2 ) • Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccines : Not recommended during use ( 7 . 3 ) • Alcohol : Concomitant use not recommended ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Other Anticholinergic Drugs Products with anticholinergic properties may potentiate the anticholinergic - like side effects of amantadine .
The dose of anticholinergic drugs or of GOCOVRI should be reduced if atropine - like effects appear when these drugs are used concurrently .
7 . 2 Drugs Affecting Urinary pH The pH of the urine has been reported to influence the excretion rate of amantadine .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) , and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . , renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Since the excretion rate of amantadine increases rapidly when the urine is acidic , the administration of urine acidifying drugs may increase the elimination of the drug from the body .
Alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse reactions .
Monitor for efficacy or adverse reactions under conditions that alter the urine pH to more acidic or alkaline , respectively .
7 . 3 Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccines Because of its antiviral properties , amantadine may interfere with the efficacy of live attenuated influenza vaccines .
Therefore , live vaccines are not recommended during treatment with GOCOVRI .
Inactivated influenza vaccines may be used , as appropriate .
7 . 4 Alcohol Concomitant use with alcohol is not recommended , as it may increase the potential for CNS effects such as dizziness , confusion , lightheadedness , and orthostatic hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , and may result in dose - dumping [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use of amantadine in pregnant women .
Animal studies suggest a potential risk for fetal harm with amantadine .
In mice and rats , adverse developmental effects ( embryolethality , increased incidence of malformations , and reduced fetal body weight ) were observed when amantadine was administered to pregnant animals at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease is unknown .
Data Animal Data The effects of amantadine on development have not been tested in studies conducted in animals using currently recommended methodology ; however , developmental toxicity studies of amantadine have been reported in the published literature .
In mice , oral administration of amantadine ( 0 , 10 , or 40 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant animals during organogenesis ( gestation days 7 - 12 ) resulted in embryolethality and reduced fetal body weight at the highest dose tested , which was associated with maternal toxicity .
The no - effect dose for developmental toxicity in mice ( 10 mg / kg / day ) is less than the recommended human dose ( RHD ) of 274 mg / day , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
In rats , oral administration of amantadine ( 0 , 40 or 120 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant animals during organogenesis ( gestation days 7 - 12 ) resulted in embryolethality and reduced fetal body weight at the highest dose .
The no - effect dose for developmental toxicity in this study ( 40 mg / kg / day ) is approximately equal to the RHD on a mg / m2 basis .
In another study in pregnant rats , oral administration of amantadine during organogenesis ( gestation days 7 - 14 ) resulted in an increase in visceral and skeletal malformations at oral doses of 50 and 100 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose for teratogenicity in this study ( 37 mg / kg / day ) is approximately equal to the RHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Evaluation of parturition , lactation , and post - natal development in a limited number of litters from the mouse and rat studies described above revealed reductions in live litter size and pup weights at birth at 40 mg / kg / day in mice and 120 mg / kg / day in rats .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Amantadine is excreted into human milk , but amounts have not been quantified .
There is no information on the risk to a breastfed infant .
Amantadine may alter breast milk production or excretion [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for GOCOVRI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from GOCOVRI or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data In published studies , amantadine reduced serum prolactin levels and the symptoms of galactorrhea in patients taking neuroleptic drugs .
The effect of amantadine on milk supply has not been evaluated in nursing mothers .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of GOCOVRI in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The majority of people with Parkinson ’ s disease are 65 years and older .
In Phase 3 clinical trials , the mean age of patients at study entry was 65 years .
Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of GOCOVRI , 46 % were less than 65 years of age , 39 % were 65 - 74 years of age , and 15 % were 75 years of age or older .
Hallucinations and falls occurred more frequently in patients 65 years of age or older , compared to those less than 65 years of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is recommended on the basis of age .
GOCOVRI is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 .
Renal Impairment GOCOVRI is contraindicated for use in patients with end - stage renal disease ( creatinine clearance values lower than 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
For patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 30 and 59 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , a 50 % dose reduction of GOCOVRI dosage to a starting daily dose of 68 . 5 mg daily at bedtime for a week , to a maximum dosage of 137 mg daily at bedtime is recommended .
For patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 15 and 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , a daily dose of 68 . 5 mg at bedtime is the recommended initial and maximum dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Creatinine clearance values are estimated by the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease ( MDRD ) method .
10 OVERDOSAGE Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine .
The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram of amantadine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 8 g amantadine ) .
Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine .
Drug overdose has resulted in cardiac , respiratory , renal , or central nervous system toxicity .
Pulmonary edema and respiratory distress ( including adult respiratory distress syndrome , ARDS ) have been reported with amantadine ; renal dysfunction , including increased BUN and decreased creatinine clearance , can occur .
Central nervous system effects that have been reported with overdose include agitation , aggressive behavior , hypertonia , hyperkinesia , ataxia , tremor , disorientation , depersonalization , fear , delirium , psychotic reactions , lethargy , and coma .
Seizures may be exacerbated in patients with prior history of seizure disorders .
Hyperthermia has occurred with amantadine overdose .
For acute overdosing , general supportive measures should be employed along with immediate gastric decontamination if appropriate .
Give intravenous fluids if necessary .
The excretion rate of amantadine increases with acidification of urine , which may increase the elimination of the drug .
Monitor patients for arrhythmias and hypotension .
Electrocardiographic monitoring may be needed after ingestion because arrhythmias have been reported after overdose , including arrhythmias with fatal outcomes .
Adrenergic agents , such as isoproterenol , in patients with an amantadine overdose has been reported to induce arrhythmias .
Monitor blood electrolytes , urine pH , and urinary output .
Although amantadine is not efficiently removed by hemodialysis , this procedure may be useful in the treatment of amantadine toxicity in patients with renal failure .
11 DESCRIPTION GOCOVRI contains amantadine in an extended - release formulation .
The active ingredient in GOCOVRI is amantadine hydrochloride .
The chemical name for amantadine hydrochloride is tricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . 1 3 , 7 ] decan - 1 - amine , hydrochloride or 1 - adamantanamine hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C10H17N • HCl and the molecular weight is 187 . 71 ( g / mol ) .
Amantadine hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder and is non - hygroscopic , practically insoluble in ether , sparingly soluble in methylene chloride , soluble in chloroform , and freely soluble in water , ethanol , and methanol .
GOCOVRI capsules are for oral use .
Each capsule contains 68 . 5 mg or 137 mg amantadine ( as 85 mg or 170 mg amantadine hydrochloride , respectively ) .
Capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients : copovidone , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , medium - chain triglycerides , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and talc in a hard gelatin capsule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which amantadine exerts efficacy in the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease or as adjunctive treatment to levodopa / carbidopa in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease experiencing “ off ” episodes is unknown .
Amantadine is a weak uncompetitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor .
Amantadine has not been shown to possess direct anticholinergic activity in animal studies ; however , it exhibits anticholinergic - like side effects such as dry mouth , urinary retention , and constipation in humans .
Amantadine may have direct and indirect effects on dopamine neurons ; it exerts dopaminergic - like side effects such as hallucinations and dizziness in humans .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of amantadine on QT prolongation was not studied in a dedicated thorough QT study .
Alcohol consumption may increase the potential for CNS effects such as dizziness , confusion , lightheadedness , and orthostatic hypotension [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics GOCOVRI is an extended - release formulation .
The pharmacokinetics of amantadine from 68 . 5 mg , 137 mg , and 274 mg of GOCOVRI are dose proportional in healthy subjects .
Absorption After a single dose bedtime administration of GOCOVRI , the median Tmax for plasma amantadine was around 12 hours ( range 6 - 20 hours ) .
The steady - state concentrations of GOCOVRI were achieved 4 days after the dose initiation .
The steady - state total exposures ( AUC0 - tau ) were 20 - 30 % higher than after single dose , suggesting an accumulation ratio of 1 . 2 - 1 . 3 .
Effect of Food A single dose crossover study of GOCOVRI established the lack of effect of high - fat , high - calorie meal on plasma amantadine pharmacokinetics ; additionally , administration of entire capsule contents sprinkled on applesauce also did not affect plasma amantadine pharmacokinetics .
Distribution The volume of distribution determined after the intravenous administration of amantadine to 15 healthy subjects was 3 to 8 L / kg , suggesting potential extravascular distribution .
Amantadine is approximately 67 % bound to plasma proteins over a concentration range of 0 . 1 to 2 . 0 µg / mL .
Elimination In a study with healthy volunteers after oral administration , the apparent plasma clearance of amantadine was estimated to be 0 . 27 ± 0 . 094 L / hr / kg ( range 0 . 13 to 0 . 57 L / hr / kg ) .
Amantadine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine , and in a study of six healthy volunteers , the ratio of amantadine renal clearance to apparent plasma clearance was 0 . 79 ± 0 . 17 ( mean ± SD ) .
The mean plasma amantadine half - life at steady - state was approximately 16 hours .
Metabolism Eight metabolites of amantadine have been identified in human urine .
One metabolite , an N - acetylated compound , was quantified in human urine and accounted for 0 - 15 % of the administered dose in multiple studies .
The contribution of this metabolite to efficacy or toxicity is not known .
Excretion Amantadine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine by both glomerular filtration and tubular secretion .
Specific Population Male / Female Patients In an integrated analysis of five studies in healthy volunteers ( n = 147 ) , the mean total amantadine clearance following administration of GOCOVRI , adjusted for body weight in kilograms , was 1 . 2 fold higher in males compared to females ( 95 % CI : 1 . 1 , 1 . 3 , P = 0 . 007 ) .
No dose adjustment by gender is warranted .
Renal Impairment The renal clearance of amantadine is significantly lower in adult patients with moderate or severe renal impairment , compared to healthy adults .
Since the renal pathway is a major elimination pathway , impairment in renal function can result in significant accumulation in the plasma , warranting dose adjustment .
The impact of renal impairment on dose adjustment was not investigated in a dedicated study .
Based on PK simulations , the range of the total exposures ( AUC0 - tau ) in subjects with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 60 and 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) were comparable for the same dosing regimen .
However , patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 30 and 59 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) had higher exposures relative to patients with normal renal function or mild renal impairment .
Severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 15 and 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) resulted in even higher total exposures .
Dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment [ see Use in Special Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
GOCOVRI is contraindicated in patients with end stage renal disease ( creatinine clearance less than 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
Amantadine is inefficiently removed by hemodialysis .
Drug Interaction Studies The in - vitro dissolution - release profiles showed 52 % drug release after 45 minutes , and up to 95 % after 2 hours , at concentrations of 40 % alcohol / 0 . 1 N HCl .
In vitro studies indicate that amantadine has negligible or no inhibitory activity against cellular transporters ( P - gp , BCRP , MATE2 - K , OAT1 , OAT3 , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 ) at plasma concentrations observed in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease on a GOCOVRI 274 mg dose .
In vitro studies in MDCK - II cells demonstrated that amantadine is not a substrate of the anionic transporters OAT1 or OAT3 , or the cationic transporter MATE2 - K .
Amantadine was a poor substrate of the cationic transporters OCT2 and MATE1 .
Renal elimination of amantadine may be mediated in part by one or more organic cation transporters independent of OCT2 .
An in vivo study demonstrated that quinidine , a known organic cation transporter inhibitor , reduced amantadine clearance by approximately 33 % in humans .
The clinical significance is unknown .
In vitro studies show that amantadine does not significantly inhibit the enzyme activity of drug metabolizing cytochrome P450 isoforms ( CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C19 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 , and 3A5 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Animal studies designed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of amantadine have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Amantadine was negative for genotoxicity in in vitro ( Ames and mammalian cell [ Chinese Hamster ovary and human peripheral blood lymphocytes ] ) assays in the presence or absence of metabolic activation and in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility The effects of amantadine on fertility have not been adequately tested in a study in animals conducted according to current standards .
In a reproduction study reported in the literature , oral administration of amantadine to male and female rats at a dose of 32 mg / kg / day resulted in impaired fertility .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects on fertility ( 10 mg / kg / day ) is less than the recommended human dose of 274 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Overview of Studies The efficacy of GOCOVRI for the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease and for the adjunctive treatment to levodopa / carbidopa in patients with Parkinsons ’ s disease experiencing “ off ” episodes was assessed in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled efficacy trials : Study 1 and Study 2 .
Key inclusion criteria in both studies included at least 1 hour of troublesome dyskinesia time during the day and at least mild functional impact because of dyskinesia .
Study 1 was conducted in 121 ( modified Intention to Treat ( mITT ) population ) Parkinson ’ s disease patients with dyskinesia in the United States ( US ) and Canada .
The duration of treatment in Study 1 was up to 25 weeks .
Study 2 was conducted in 75 ( mITT population ) patients with dyskinesia in the US , Germany , France , Spain , and Austria .
The duration of treatment was 13 weeks .
In both studies , the primary efficacy endpoint was the change in total score of the Unified Dyskinesia Rating Scale ( UDysRS ) between baseline and Week 12 .
Key secondary endpoints derived from a Parkinson ’ s disease home diary included changes from baseline to Week 12 in ON time without troublesome dyskinesia and OFF time .
Study Population In Study 1 and Study 2 , the mean age of patients at the time of Parkinson ’ s disease diagnosis was 55 years ( range : 29 - 75 years ) .
At baseline , patients had a mean UDysRS total score of 40 . 1 ( range : 8 - 76 ) , a mean duration of ON time without troublesome dyskinesia ( Parkinson ’ s disease home diary ) of 8 . 4 hours ( range : 0 - 15 . 3 ) , and a mean duration of OFF time of 2 . 8 hours ( range : 0 - 9 . 5 ) .
Patients in Study 1 and Study 2 were treated with a stable dose of levodopa , with 32 % of patients on levodopa monotherapy .
Patients were also treated with concomitant dopamine agonists ( 54 % ) and / or MAO - B inhibitors ( 44 % ) .
Study 1 In Study 1 , a significant decrease in mean UDysRS total score ( reduction in dyskinesia ) was observed at Week 12 in patients treated with GOCOVRI , compared with placebo ( Table 2 ) .
Study 2 In Study 2 , a significant decrease in mean UDysRS total score ( reduction in dyskinesia ) was observed at Week 12 in patients treated with GOCOVRI , compared with placebo ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : UDysRS Total Score at Week 12 for Study 1 and Study 2 mITT Population Study 1 Study 2 Placebo ( N = 58 ) GOCOVRI 274 mg ( N = 63 ) Placebo ( N = 38 ) GOCOVRI 274 mg ( N = 37 ) UDysRS total score , LS Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline - 8 . 0 ( 1 . 64 ) - 15 . 9 ( 1 . 62 ) - 6 . 3 ( 2 . 08 ) - 20 . 7 ( 2 . 20 ) Treatment Difference - 7 . 9 ( 2 . 30 ) - 14 . 4 ( 3 . 03 ) P - value 0 . 0009 < 0 . 0001 In Study 1 and Study 2 , there was a significant increase in ON time without troublesome dyskinesia , and a significant decrease in OFF time between baseline and Week 12 in patients treated with GOCOVRI , compared with placebo ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : PD Home Diary Results at Week 12 for Study 1 and Study 2 mITT Population Study 1 Study 2 Placebo ( N = 58 ) GOCOVRI 274 mg ( N = 63 ) Placebo ( N = 38 ) GOCOVRI 274 mg ( N = 37 ) ON Time w / o Troublesome Dyskinesia , LS Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline 0 . 8 ( 0 . 43 ) 3 . 6 ( 0 . 43 ) 2 . 1 ( 0 . 53 ) 4 . 0 ( 0 . 56 ) Treatment Difference 2 . 7 ( 0 . 61 ) 1 . 9 ( 0 . 78 ) P - value < 0 . 0001 0 . 0168 OFF Time , LS Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline 0 . 3 ( 0 . 26 ) - 0 . 6 ( 0 . 27 ) 0 . 6 ( 0 . 31 ) - 0 . 5 ( 0 . 34 ) Treatment Difference - 0 . 9 ( 0 . 37 ) - 1 . 1 ( 0 . 46 ) P - value 0 . 0171 0 . 0199 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied GOCOVRI is supplied as extended release capsules in the following configurations : The 68 . 5 mg capsule is a white opaque size # 2 capsule , with black printing of ‘ ADAMAS ’ on front and ‘ 85 ’ on back of the cap and three black bands printed on body of capsule .
• 60 count bottles NDC # 70482 - 085 - 60 The 137 mg capsule is a light blue opaque size # 0 capsule , with black printing of ‘ ADAMAS ’ on front and ‘ 170 ’ on back of the cap and three black bands printed on body of capsule .
• 60 count bottles NDC # 70482 - 170 - 60 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Administration Instruct patients and caregivers that GOCOVRI capsules should be swallowed whole and can be administered with or without food .
Alternatively , GOCOVRI capsules may be opened and the contents sprinkled on applesauce ; the entire contents should be consumed immediately without chewing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to speak to their healthcare provider before discontinuation of GOCOVRI .
Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living Advise patients that sleepiness and fatigue that have been reported with GOCOVRI and patients treated with Parkinson ’ s disease medications have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
These adverse reactions may affect some patients ’ ability to drive and operate machinery safely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Suicidality and Depression Instruct patients , family members , and caregivers to notify their healthcare provider if depressed mood , depression , changes in behavior or thinking , and suicidal ideation or behavior develop during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hallucinations / Psychotic Behavior Inform patients and caregivers that hallucinations and paranoia can occur while taking GOCOVRI .
Tell patients to report unreal visions , sounds , or sensations or other psychotic behavior to their healthcare provider promptly should they develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Dizziness and Orthostatic Hypotension An increased incidence of dizziness , orthostatic hypotension , and syncope was observed with administration of GOCOVRI .
Caution patients against standing rapidly after sitting or lying down , especially if they have been doing so for prolonged periods and especially at the initiation of treatment with GOCOVRI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Withdrawal - Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider before stopping GOCOVRI .
Tell patients to inform their healthcare provider if they develop withdrawal symptoms such as fever , confusion , or severe muscle stiffness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Impulse Control / Compulsive Disorders Inform patients of the potential for experiencing intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , intense urges to spend money , binge eating , and other intense urges and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications that increase central dopaminergic tone , that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Certain medications can cause an interaction with GOCOVRI .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to inform their healthcare provider of all the medicines the patient is taking , including over - the - counter medicines , dietary supplements , and herbal products .
Inform patients that live influenza vaccines and consumption of alcohol are not recommended during treatment with GOCOVRI [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Adamas Pharma , LLC Emeryville , CA 94608 PATIENT INFORMATION GOCOVRI ( goh - KUV - ree ) ( amantadine ) extended release capsules , for oral use What is GOCOVRI ?
GOCOVRI is a prescription medicine used : • for the treatment of dyskinesia ( sudden uncontrolled movements ) in people with Parkinson ’ s disease who are treated with levodopa therapy or levodopa therapy with other medicines that increase the effects of dopamine in the brain .
• with levodopa and carbidopa in people with Parkinson ’ s disease who are having “ off ” episodes .
It is not known if GOCOVRI is safe and effective in children .
Do not take GOCOVRI if you have severe kidney problems Before you take GOCOVRI , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney problems .
• have daytime sleepiness from a sleep disorder , have unexpected or unpredictable sleepiness or periods of sleep , take a medicine to help you sleep , or take any medicine that makes you drowsy .
• have mental problems , such as suicidal thoughts , depression , or hallucinations .
• have unusual urges including gambling , increased sex drive , compulsive eating , or compulsive shopping .
• drink alcoholic beverages .
This may increase your chances of becoming drowsy or sleepy while taking GOCOVRI .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
GOCOVRI may harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
GOCOVRI can pass into your breastmilk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take GOCOVRI .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you : • take medicines like sodium bicarbonate .
• have had or are planning to have a live flu ( influenza ) vaccination ( nasal spray ) .
You can receive the influenza vaccination shot but should not get a live influenza vaccine while taking GOCOVRI .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take GOCOVRI ?
• Take GOCOVRI exactly as your doctor tells you to .
• Start GOCOVRI with 1 capsule at bedtime .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
If your doctor tells you to take 2 capsules , take them together at bedtime .
• Do not stop or change your dose of GOCOVRI before talking with your doctor .
Call your doctor if you have symptoms of withdrawal such as fever , confusion , or severe muscle stiffness .
• GOCOVRI may be taken with food or without food .
• Swallow GOCOVRI capsules whole .
Do not crush , chew , or divide .
• GOCOVRI capsules may be opened and sprinkled on applesauce before swallowing .
Sprinkle all of the medicine in the capsule on the applesauce .
Take all of the medicine right away without chewing .
• If you miss a dose of GOCOVRI , do not take an extra dose .
Take your usual dose of GOCOVRI on the next day at bedtime .
• If you have forgotten to take GOCOVRI for several days , contact your doctor .
• Do not drink alcohol with your dose of GOCOVRI .
• Do not use GOCOVRI capsules that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
• If you take too much GOCOVRI , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking GOCOVRI ?
• Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how GOCOVRI affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol while taking GOCOVRI .
It can increase your chances of getting serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of GOCOVRI ?
GOCOVRI may cause serious side effects , including : • falling asleep during normal activities .
You may fall asleep while doing normal activities such as driving a car , talking , or eating while taking GOCOVRI or other medicines that treat Parkinson ’ s disease .
You may fall asleep without being drowsy or without warning .
This may result in having accidents .
Your chances of falling asleep while doing normal activities while taking GOCOVRI are greater if you take other medicines that cause drowsiness .
Tell your doctor right away if this happens .
• suicidal thoughts or actions and depression .
Some people taking GOCOVRI have had suicidal thoughts , attempted suicide , or have had depression .
Tell your doctor if you have new or sudden changes in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings , including thoughts about hurting yourself or ending your life .
• hallucinations .
GOCOVRI can cause or worsen hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not real ) or psychotic behavior .
Hallucinations are a serious and common side effect of GOCOVRI .
Contact your doctor if you have hallucinations .
• feeling dizzy , faint or light headed , especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) .
Light headedness or fainting may happen when getting up too quickly from a sitting or lying position especially after long periods of time , when first starting GOCOVRI , or if your dose has been increased .
These side effects are serious and common for GOCOVRI .
Contact your doctor if you become light headed or faint when standing up .
• unusual urges .
Some people taking GOCOVRI get urges to behave in a way unusual for them .
Examples of this are an unusual urge to gamble , increased sexual urges , strong urges to spend money , binge eating and the inability to control these urges .
If you notice or your family notices that you are developing any unusual behaviors , talk to your doctor .
The most common side effects of GOCOVRI include hallucinations , dizziness , dry mouth , swelling of legs and feet , constipation , a drop in blood pressure when standing , and falls .
These are not all the possible side effects of GOCOVRI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GOCOVRI ?
• Store GOCOVRI at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep GOCOVRI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of GOCOVRI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use GOCOVRI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GOCOVRI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about GOCOVRI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in GOCOVRI ?
Active ingredient : amantadine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : copovidone , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , medium chain triglycerides , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and talc Manufactured for : Adamas Pharma LLC .
Emeryville , CA 94608 For more information , go to www . GOCOVRI . com or call 1 - 833 - 223 - 2627 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 1 / 2021 NDC 70482 - 085 - 60 Gocovri ® 68 . 5 mg 60 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70482 - 085 - 21 Gocovri ® 68 . 5 mg Sample Package , 21 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70482 - 085 - 61 Gocovri ® 68 . 5 mg Sample Package , 60 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70482 - 170 - 60 Gocovri ® 137 mg 60 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70482 - 170 - 21 Gocovri ® 137 mg Sample Package , 21 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70482 - 170 - 61 Gocovri ® 137 mg Sample Package , 60 Capsule Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
