Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole USP 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot pay special attention to the spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Inactive ingredients Cetostearyl alcohol , Cetomacrogol 1000 , Micro wax , Light liquid paraffin , Paraffin wax , Chlorocresol , Propylene Glycol , Purified water Other information • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • store at temperature not exceeding 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
• See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiration Date Questions or comments ?
1 844 500 - 2729 ‬ between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday to Friday .
Cures Most Athlete ' s Foot Relieves Itching & Burning , Relieves Cracking and Scaling , Grease less , Non - Staining Compared to the active ingredient in Lotrimin AF Distributed by .
ARU PHARMA INC .
MOUNT VERNON , NY 10552 www . qpackrx . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
