ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Titanium Dioxide 2 . 85 % , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate 2 . 14 % , Zinc Oxide 1 . 61 % , Ethylhexyl Salicylate 1 . 43 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Butane , Propane , Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Alcohol Denat . , Propanediol , C13 - 15 Alkane , Bis - Ethylhexyloxyphenol methoxyphenyl triazine , Niacinamide , Talc , 1 , 2 - Hexanedio , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Centella Asiatica Leaf Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Extract , Nymphaea Alba Flower Extract , LavandulaAngustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , CI 77492 , Polyglyceryl - 6 Polyricinoleate , Hydrogen Dimethicone , Polymethyl Methacrylate , CI 77491 , Lauryl PEG - 9 polydimethylsiloxyethyl dimethicone , Aluminium Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , Ultramarines , CI 77499 , Butylene Glycol , Adenosine , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Triethoxylsilylethyl PolydimethylsiloxyethylHexyl Dimethicone , Caprylyl Glycol , Disodium EDTA , Parfum PURPOSE Purpose : Sunscreen WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only Do not use on damaged broken skin Do not store at any high or low temperature or sunlight .
Product uses high pressure gas flammable .
Shake well before use Do not spray over 3 second on same place , face , must use on hand and then spread it on face If possible spray the product from 20 cm or farther from body Do not inhale spray gas When using this product Avoid contact with eyes .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear .
Replace the cap after use .
Before dispose gas must be removed .
Do not use near fire , heating device such as heater Keep Out of Reach of Children DESCRIPTION Uses : Helps prevent sunburn Directions 1 .
Turn the top of the container to “ ON ” 2 .
Shake the container up and down before use 3 .
And then pump 4 - 5 times 4 .
Open the cap and lightly apply on skin with the puff in a tapping motion ( If the puff is too cold , wait for 5 seconds , and then evenly spread in a stroking motion ) 5 .
After use , put the puff back in the container , close the cap and then turn the top of the container to “ OFF ” ( Do not spray when closed ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
