Drug Facts Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care .
• Healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • Patient preoperative skin preparation : for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery skin wound and general skin cleansing • Skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash WARNING : This product can expose you to coconut oil diethanolamine condensate ( cocamide diethanolamine ) , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information go to www . P65Warnings . ca . gov .
If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area • as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums • if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when the underlying condition makes it necessary to reduce the bacterial population of the skin Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may causeirritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand s crub : • wet hands and forearms with water • scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a separate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation : • apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleaning : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 68 - 77ºF ( 20 - 25 ° C ) • avoid excessive heat above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol Questions ?
General Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 777 - 4908 Technical Support ?
Call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 NDC 68599 - 5400 - 2 McKesson Antiseptic Skin Cleanser 4 % CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE SOLUTION A non - sterile solution that reduces the number of microorganisms on the skin prior to surgery or patient care .
0 . 5 fl oz ( 15 mL ) 50 PER BOX FOR SINGLE - USE MFR # 16 - CHG15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
