AHFS Category : 36 : 84 Rx only Diagnostic Antigen ( Aid in the detection of infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis ) FOR INTRADERMAL USE Polysorbate 80 Stabilized Solution of Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative for Tuberculin Testing in Humans DESCRIPTION TUBERSOL ® , Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative ( Mantoux ) ( PPD ) ( 1 ) for intradermal tuberculin testing is prepared from a large Master Batch Connaught Tuberculin ( CT68 ) ( 2 ) and is a cell - free purified protein fraction obtained from a human strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis grown on a protein - free synthetic medium and inactivated .
( 2 ) The use of a standard preparation derived from a single batch ( CT68 ) has been adopted in order to eliminate batch to batch variation by the same manufacturer .
( 2 ) TUBERSOL is a clear , colorless liquid .
TUBERSOL contains : Purified protein derivative of M . tuberculosis 5 TU per 0 . 1 mL Polysorbate 80 0 . 0006 % Phenol 0 . 22 % to 0 . 35 % w / v in sterile isotonic phosphate buffered saline .
Before release , each successive lot is tested for potency in comparison with the US Standard Tuberculin PPD - S .
( 3 ) Independent studies conducted by the US Public Health Service in humans have determined the amount of CT68 in stabilized solution necessary ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) to produce bio - equivalency with Tuberculin PPD - S ( in phosphate buffer without polysorbate 80 ) using 5 US units ( TU ) Tuberculin PPD - S as the standard .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MECHANISM OF ACTION The sensitization following infection with mycobacteria occurs primarily in the regional lymph nodes .
Small lymphocytes ( T lymphocytes ) proliferate in response to the antigenic stimulus to give rise to specifically sensitized lymphocytes .
After 3 - 8 weeks , these lymphocytes enter the blood stream and circulate for years .
( 7 ) Subsequent restimulation of these sensitized lymphocytes with the same or a similar antigen , such as the intradermal injection of TUBERSOL , evokes a local reaction mediated by these cells .
( 8 ) Characteristically , delayed hypersentitivity reactions to tuberculin begin at 5 to 6 hours , are maximal at 48 to 72 hours and subside over a period of days .
The resultant immune response consists of induration due to cell infiltration and occasionally vesiculation and necrosis .
Clinically , a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to tuberculin is a manifestation of previous infection with M tuberculosis or a variety of non - tuberculosis bacteria .
In most cases sensitization is induced by natural mycobacterial infection or by vaccination with BCG Vaccine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TUBERSOL , Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative ( Mantoux ) , is indicated to aid diagnosis of tuberculosis infection ( TB ) in persons at increased risk of developing active disease .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) have published guidelines regarding populations that would benefit from tuberculin skin testing ( TST ) .
Current recommendations can be accessed at : http : / / www . cdc . gov / tb / publications / factsheets / testing . htm .
Previous BCG vaccination is not a contraindication to tuberculin testing .
The skin - test results of BCG vaccinated persons can be used to support or exclude the diagnosis of TB infection .
However , an FDA - approved interferon gamma release assay is preferred over tuberculin skin test for persons 5 years of age and older who were previously vaccinated with BCG .
( 9 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergy to any component of TUBERSOL or an anaphylactic or other allergic reaction to a previous test of tuberculin PPD is a contraindication to the use of TUBERSOL .
( See DESCRIPTION and HOW SUPPLIED ) TUBERSOL should not be administered to : • Persons who have had a severe reaction ( e . g . , necrosis , blistering , anaphylactic shock or ulcerations ) to a previous TST , • Persons with documented active tuberculosis or a clear history of treatment for TB infection or disease , ( 10 ) • Persons with extensive burns or eczema .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Allergic reactions may occur following the use of TUBERSOL even in persons with no prior history of hypersensitivity to the product components .
( 11 ) Epinephrine injection ( 1 : 1 , 000 ) and other appropriate agents used for the control of immediate allergic reactions must be immediately available .
Syncope Syncope ( fainting ) can occur in association with administration of injectable medicines , including TUBERSOL .
Procedures should be in place to avoid falling injury and to restore cerebral perfusion following syncope .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Diagnostic Limitations False positive or false negative tuberculin skin test reactions may occur in some individuals .
( See Interpretation of the Test ) False positive tuberculin reaction tests occur in individuals who have been infected with other mycobacteria , including vaccination with BCG .
Not all infected persons will have a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to a tuberculin test .
Many factors have been reported to cause a decreased ability to respond to the tuberculin test in the presence of tuberculous infection .
( See Interpretation of the Test ) INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Prior to administration of TUBERSOL , the patient ' s current health status and medical history should be reviewed .
The physician should review the patient ' s immunization history for possible sensitivity to components of TUBERSOL .
The health - care provider should inform the patient of the need to return for the reading of the test .
Self - reading of the test has been shown to be inaccurate and unreliable .
The health - care provider should give the patient a permanent personal record .
In addition , it is essential that the health professional record the testing history in the permanent medical record of each patient .
This permanent office record should contain the name of the product , date given , dose , manufacturer and lot number , as well as the test result in millimeters of induration ( including 0 mm , if appropriate ) .
Reporting results only as negative or positive is not satisfactory .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Reactivity to the test may be depressed or suppressed in persons who are receiving corticosteroids or immunosuppressive agents .
( 8 ) Reactivity to TUBERSOL may be temporarily depressed by certain live virus vaccines ( measles , mumps , rubella , oral polio , yellow fever , and varicella ) .
If a parenteral live attenuated virus vaccine has been administered recently , tuberculin testing should be delayed for > 1 month after vaccination .
( 8 ) ( 12 ) ( See Interpretation of the Test ) When tuberculin screening is required at the same time as a measles - containing vaccine or other parenteral live attenuated virus vaccine , simultaneous administration of TUBERSOL and the vaccine at separate sites is the preferred option .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY TUBERSOL has not been evaluated for its carcinogenic or mutagenic potentials or impairment of fertility .
PREGNANCY PREGNANCY CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with TUBERSOL .
It is also not known whether TUBERSOL can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
TUBERSOL should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether TUBERSOL is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when TUBERSOL is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE There is no age contraindication to tuberculin skin testing of infants .
Because their immune systems are immature , many infants < 6 weeks of age who are infected with M . tuberculosis do not react to tuberculin tests .
( 13 ) ( See Interpretation of the Test ) GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of TUBERSOL did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Induration at the TUBERSOL injection site is the expected reaction for a positive skin test .
( See Interpretation of the Test ) The information pertaining to adverse events has been compiled from historical clinical studies and post - marketing experience with TUBERSOL .
General disorders and administration site conditions Injection site pain , injection site pruritus and injection site discomfort .
Injection site erythema or injection site rash ( without induration ) occurring within 12 hours of testing .
These reactions do not indicate TB infection .
Injection site hemorrhage and injection site hematoma up to three days after the administration of the test .
Injection site vesicles , injection site ulcer or injection site necrosis in highly sensitive persons .
Injection site scar as a result of strongly positive reactions .
Pyrexia Immune system disorders Hypersensitivity , including anaphylaxis / anaphylactic reactions , angiodema , urticaria Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Stridor , dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash , generalized rash Nervous system disorders Presyncope , syncope ( including syncope associated with tonic - clonic movements and other seizure - like activity ) sometimes resulting in transient loss of consciousness with injury REPORTING OF ADVERSE EVENTS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the Pharmacovigilance Department , Sanofi Pasteur Inc . , Discovery Drive , Swiftwater , PA 18370 or call 1 - 800 - 822 - 2463 ( 1 - 800 - VACCINE ) or Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) MEDWATCH Program at 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 and www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE Five ( 5 ) tuberculin units ( TU ) per test dose of 0 . 1 mL is the standard strength used for intradermal ( Mantoux ) testing .
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION TUBERSOL is indicated for intradermal injection only .
Do not inject intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously .
If subcutaneous injection occurs , the test cannot be interpreted .
Inspect for extraneous particulate matter and / or discoloration before use .
If these conditions exist , do not administer the product .
Use a separate syringe and needle for each injection .
The following procedure is recommended for performing the Mantoux test : • The preferred site of the test is the volar aspect of the forearm .
Avoid areas on the skin that are red or swollen .
Avoid visible veins .
• Clean the skin site with a suitable germicide and allow the site to dry prior to injection of the antigen .
• Administer the test dose ( 0 . 1 mL ) of TUBERSOL with a 1 mL syringe calibrated in tenths and fitted with a short , one - quarter to one - half inch , 26 or 27 gauge needle .
• Wipe the stopper of the vial with a suitable germicide and allow to dry before needle insertion .
Then insert the needle gently through the stopper and draw 0 . 1 mL of TUBERSOL into the syringe .
Avoid injection of excess air with removal of each dose so as not to over pressurize the vial and possibly cause seepage at the puncture site .
• Insert the point of the needle into the most superficial layers of the skin with the needle bevel pointing upward and administer the dose by slow intradermal injection .
If the intradermal injection is performed properly , a definite pale bleb will rise at the needle point , about 10 mm ( ⅜ " ) in diameter .
This bleb will disperse within minutes .
Do not dress the site .
• A drop of blood may appear at the administration site following injection .
Blot the site lightly to remove the blood but avoid squeezing out the injected tuberculin test fluid .
In the event of an improperly performed injection ( ie , no bleb formed ) , repeat the test immediately at another site , at least 2 inches from the first site and circle the second injection site as an indication that this is the site to be read .
Inform the patient of the need to return for the reading of the test by a trained health professional .
Self - reading may be inaccurate and is strongly discouraged .
INTERPRETATION OF THE TEST The skin test should be read by a trained health professional 48 to 72 hours after administration of TUBERSOL .
Skin test sensitivity is indicated by induration only ; redness should not be measured .
Measure the diameter of induration transversely to the long axis of the forearm and record the measurement in millimetres ( including 0 mm ) .
( 8 ) The tip of a ballpoint pen , gently pushed at a 45 ° angle toward the site of injection , will stop at the edge of induration .
Also record presence and size ( if present ) of necrosis and edema , although these are not used in the interpretation of the test .
Positive Reactions Tuberculin reactivity may indicate latent infection , prior infection and / or disease with M . tuberculosis and does not necessarily indicate the presence of active tuberculous disease .
Persons showing positive tuberculin reactions should be considered positive by current public health guidelines and referred for further medical evaluation .
( 8 ) ( 10 ) The repeated testing of uninfected persons does not sensitize them to TUBERSOL .
( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 10 ) ( 13 ) The significance of induration measurements in diagnosing latent TB infection must be considered in terms of the patient ' s history and the risk of developing active TB disease as indicated in Table 1 .
( 10 ) Table 1 : Criteria for tuberculin positivity , by risk groupReaction ≥ 5 mm of Induration Reaction ≥ 10 mm of Induration Reaction ≥ 15 mm of Induration HIV - positive persons Recent contacts of tuberculosis ( TB ) case patients Fibrotic changes on chest radiograph consistent with prior TB Patients with organ transplants and other immunosuppressed patients ( receiving the equivalent of ≥ 15 mg / d of prednisone for 1 month or more ) [ 1 ] Recent immigrants ( i . e . , within the last 5 yrs ) from high prevalence countries Injection drug users Residents or employees [ 2 ] of the following high - risk congregate settings : prisons and jails , nursing homes and other long - term facilities for the elderly , hospitals and other health care facilities , residential facilities for patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) and homeless shelters Mycobacteriology laboratory personnel Persons with the following clinical conditions that place them at high risk : silicosis , diabetes mellitus , chronic renal failure , some hematologic disorders ( e . g . , leukemias and lymphomas ) , other specific malignancies ( e . g . , carcinoma of the head or neck and lung ) , weight loss of ≥ 10 % of ideal body weight , gastrectomy and jejunoileal bypass Children younger than 4 yrs of age or infants , children , and adolescents exposed to adults at high - risk Persons with no risk factors for TB [ 1 ] Risk of TB in patients treated with corticosteroids increases with higher dose and longer duration .
[ 2 ] For persons who are otherwise at low risk and are tested at the start of employment , a reaction of ≥ 15 mm induration is considered positive .
A TST conversion is defined as an increase of ≥ 10 mm of induration within a 2 - year period , regardless of age .
( 10 ) The possibility should be considered that the skin test sensitivity may also be due to a previous contact with atypical mycobacteria or previous BCG vaccination .
( 8 ) ( 10 ) ( 13 ) Negative Reactions An individual who does not show a positive reaction to 5 TU on the first test , but is suspected of being TB positive , may be retested with 5 TU .
( See Booster Effect and Two - Step Testing ) Any individual who does not show a positive reaction to an initial injection of 5 TU , or a second test with 5 TU may be considered as tuberculin negative .
False Positive Reactions False positive tuberculin reactions can occur in individuals who have been infected with other mycobacteria , including vaccination with BCG .
( 8 ) ( 13 ) However , a diagnosis of M . tuberculosis infection and the use of preventive therapy should be considered for any BCG - vaccinated person who has a positive TST reaction , especially if the person has been , or is , at increased risk of acquiring TB infection .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) ( 15 ) ( 16 ) False - Negative Reactions Not all infected persons will have a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to a tuberculin test .
In those who are elderly or those who are being tested for the first time , reactions may develop slowly and may not peak until after 72 hours .
Since tuberculin sensitivity may take up to 8 weeks to develop following exposure to M . tuberculosis ( See Mechanism of Action ) , persons who have a negative tuberculin test < 8 weeks following possible TB exposure should be retested ≥ 8 - 10 weeks following the last known or suspected exposure .
( 17 ) Altered Immune Status Impaired or attenuated cell mediated immunity ( CMI ) can potentially cause a false negative tuberculin reaction .
Many factors have been reported to cause a decreased ability to respond to the tuberculin test in the presence of tuberculous infection including viral infections ( e . g . , measles , mumps , chickenpox and HIV ) , live virus vaccinations ( e . g . , measles , mumps , rubella , oral polio and yellow fever ) , overwhelming tuberculosis , other bacterial infections , leukemia , sarcoidosis , fungal infections , metabolic derangements , low protein states , diseases affecting lymphoid organs , drugs ( corticosteroids and many other immunosuppressive agents ) , and malignancy or stress .
( 8 ) ( 18 ) ( 19 ) A TST should be deferred for patients with major viral infections or live - virus vaccination in the past month .
Persons with the common cold may be tuberculin tested .
Because TST results in HIV - infected individuals are less reliable as CD4 counts decline , screening should be completed as early as possible after HIV - infection occurs .
( 19 ) BOOSTER EFFECT AND TWO - STEP TESTING If tuberculin testing will be conducted at regular intervals , for instance among health - care workers or prison workers , two - step testing should be performed as a baseline to avoid interpreting a booster effect as a tuberculin conversion .
If the first test showed either no reaction or a small reaction , the second test should be performed one to four weeks later .
Both tests should be read and recorded at 48 to 72 hours .
Patients with a second tuberculin test ( booster ) response of ≥ 10 mm should be considered to have experienced past TB infection .
( 15 ) ( 20 ) Persons who do not boost when given repeat tests at one week , but whose tuberculin reactions change to positive after one year , should be considered to have newly acquired tuberculosis infection and managed accordingly .
( 7 ) HOW SUPPLIED TUBERSOL , Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative ( Mantoux ) , bioequivalent to 5 US units ( TU ) PPD - S per test dose ( 0 . 1 mL ) is supplied in : 10 - test vial , 1 mL .
package of 1 vial , NDC No . 54868 - 2972 - 1 50 - test vial , 5 mL .
The stopper of the vial for this product does not contain natural latex rubber .
STORAGE Store at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 35 ° to 46 ° F ) .
( 21 ) Do not freeze .
Discard product if exposed to freezing .
Protect from light .
Tuberculin PPD solutions can be adversely affected by exposure to light .
The product should be stored in the dark except when doses are actually being withdrawn from the vial .
( 22 ) A vial of TUBERSOL which has been entered and in use for 30 days should be discarded .
( 23 ) Do not use after expiration date .
REFERENCES • 1 Landi S . Preparation , purification , and stability of tuberculin .
Appl Microbiol 1963 ; 11 : 408 - 412 .
• 2 Landi S , et al .
Preparation and characterization of a large batch of tuberculin purified protein derivative ( PPD - CT68 ) .
Ann Scalvo . 1980 ; 22 : 889 - 907 .
• 3 US Code of Federal Regulations , Title 21 , Part 610 , Subpart C - Standard preparations and limits of potency .
• 4 Landi S , et al .
Adsorption of tuberculin PPD to glass and plastic surfaces .
Bull .
WHO 1966 ; 35 : 593 - 602 .
• 5 Landi S , et al .
Disparity of potency between stabilized and nonstabilized dilute tuberculin solutions .
Am Rev Respir Dis 1971 ; 104 : 385 - 393 .
• 6 Landi S , et al .
Stability of dilute solutions of tuberculin purified protein derivative .
Tubercle 1978 ; 59 : 121 - 133 .
• 7 Menzies D . Interpretation of repeated tuberculin tests .
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999 ; 159 : 15 - 21 .
• 8 American Thoracic Society : Diagnostic standards and classification of tuberculosis in adults and children .
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2000 ; 161 : 1376 - 1395 .
• 9 CDC .
Updated Guidelines for Using Interferon Gamma Release Assays to Detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection - United States , 2010 .
MMWR 2010 ; 59 ( RR - 5 ) : 1 - 25 .
• 10 CDC .
Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection .
MMWR 2000 ; 49 ( RR - 6 ) : 23 - 5 .
• 11 Froeschle JE , et al .
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions after use of tuberculin skin testing .
Clin Infect Dis 2002 ; 34 : e12 - 13 .
• 12 Brickman HF , et al .
The timing of tuberculin tests in relation to immunization with live viral vaccines .
Pediatrics : 1975 ; 55 : 392 - 396 .
• 13 Huebner RE , et al .
Tuberculosis commentary : the tuberculin skin test .
Clin Infect Dis 1993 ; 17 : 968 - 75 .
• 14 CDC .
General recommendations on immunization : recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) and the American Academy of Family Physicians ( AAFP ) .
MMWR 2002 ; 51 ( RR - 2 ) : 1 - 35 .
• 15 CDC .
Guidelines for preventing the transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in health - care settings , 2005 .
MMWR 2005 ; 54 ( RR - 17 ) : 1 - 141 .
• 16 CDC .
The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States .
A joint statement by the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices .
MMWR 1996 ; 45 ( RR - 4 ) : 8 - 9 .
• 17 CDC .
Guidelines for the Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious Tuberculosis : Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC .
MMWR 2005 ; 54 ( RR - 15 ) : 1 - 47 .
• 18 Mori and Shiozawa .
Suppression of tuberculin hypersensitivity caused by rubella infection .
Am Rev Respir Dis 1985 ; 886 - 888 .
• 19 CDC .
Guidelines for prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV - infected adults and adolescents .
Recommendations from the CDC , the National Institutes of Health , and the HIV Medicine Association of Infectious Diseases Society of America .
MMWR 2009 ; 58 ( RR - 4 ) : 1 - 207 .
• 20 CDC .
Prevention and control of tuberculosis in correctional and detention facilities : Recommendations from the CDC .
MMWR 2006 ; 55 ( RR - 9 ) : 1 - 44 .
• 21 Landi S , et al .
Stability of dilute solution of tuberculin purified protein derivative at extreme temperatures .
J Biol Stand 1981 ; 9 : 195 - 199 .
• 22 Landi S , et al .
Effect of light on tuberculin purified protein derivative solutions .
Am Rev Respir Dis 1975 ; 111 : 52 - 61 .
• 23 Landi S , et al .
Effect of oxidation on the stability of tuberculin purified protein derivative ( PPD ) In : International Symposium on Tuberculins and BCG Vaccine .
Basel : International Association of Biological Standardization , 1983 .
Dev Biol Stand 1986 ; 58 : 545 - 552 .
Manufactured by : Sanofi Pasteur Limited Toronto Ontario Canada Distributed by : Sanofi Pasteur Inc .
Swiftwater PA 18370 USA Product Information as of March 2013 Printed in Canada R9 - 0313 USA Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial Package Label Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative ( Mantoux ) TUBERSOL ® 1 mL ( 10 Tests ) Test dose : 5 TU / 0 . 1 mL ID .
Protect from light .
Discard opened product after 30 days .
Rx only Sanofi Pasteur Limited Date opened [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial Carton PPD Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative ( Mantoux ) TUBERSOL ® 10 Tests 5 TU Tween Stabilized Solution Rx only Test dose : 5 TU / 0 . 1 mL intradermally .
Bio - equivalent to 5 US units ( TU ) of PPD - S SANOFI PASTEUR [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
