RX Only DESCRIPTION Each white opaque / blue opaque gelcap contains 667 mg of calcium acetate , ( anhydrous ; Ca ( CH3COO ) 2 ; MW = 158 . 17 grams ) equal to 169 mg ( 8 . 45 mEq ) calcium .
Each capsule also contains FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 3 , gelatin , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol 8000 , and titanium dioxide .
In addition to the ingredients listed above , each capsule contains Opacode ( Black ) monogrammingink .
Opacode ( Black ) contains ethanol , FD & C blue # 2 , FD & C red # 40 , FD & C yellow # 6 , iron oxide black , Nbutyl alcohol , propylene glycol , and shellac .
Calcium Acetate Capsules are administered orally for the control of hyperphosphatemia in end stage renal failure .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Patients with advanced renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) exhibit phosphate retention and some degree of hyperphosphatemia .
The retention of phosphate plays a pivotal role in causing secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with osteodystrophy , and soft - tissue calcification .
The mechanism by which phosphate retention leads to hyperparathyroidism is not clearly delineated .
Therapeutic efforts directed toward the control of hyperphosphatemia include reduction in the dietary intake of phosphate , inhibition of absorption of phosphate in the intestine with phosphate binders , and removal of phosphate from the body by more efficient methods of dialysis .
The rate of removal of phosphate by dietary manipulation or by dialysis is insufficient .
Dialysis patients absorb 40 % to 80 % of dietary phosphorus .
Therefore , the fraction of dietary phosphate absorbed from the diet needs to be reduced by using phosphate binders in most renal failure patients on maintenance dialysis .
Calcium acetate when taken with meals , combines with dietary phosphate to form insoluble calcium phosphate which is excreted in the feces .
Maintenance of serum phosphorus below 6 . 0 mg / dl is generally considered as a clinically acceptable outcome of treatment with phosphate binders .
Calcium acetate is highly soluble at neutral pH , making the calcium readily available for binding to phosphate in the proximal small intestine .
Orally administered calcium acetate from pharmaceutical dosage forms has been demonstrated to be systemically absorbed up to approximately 40 % under fasting conditions and up to approximately 30 % under nonfasting conditions .
This range represents data from both healthy subjects and renal dialysis patients under various conditions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Calcium Acetate Capsules are indicated for the control of hyperphosphatemia in end stage renal failure and do not promote aluminum absorption .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with hypercalcemia .
WARNINGS Patients with end stage renal failure may develop hypercalcemia when given calcium with meals .
No other calcium supplements should be given concurrently with calcium acetate capsules .
Progressive hypercalcemia due to overdose of calcium acetate may be severe as to require emergency measures .
Chronic hypercalcemia may lead to vascular calcification , and other soft - tissue calcification .
The serum calcium level should be monitored twice weekly during the early dose adjustment period .
Theserum calcium times phosphate ( CaXP ) product should not be allowedto exceed 66 .
Radiographic evaluation of suspect anatomical region may be helpful in early detection of soft - tissue calcification .
PRECAUTIONS General Excessive dosage of calcium acetate induces hypercalcemia ; therefore , early in the treatment during dosage adjustment serum calcium should be determined twice weekly .
Should hypercalcemia develop , the dosage should be reduced or the treatment discontinued immediately depending on the severity of hypercalcemia .
Calcium acetate should not be given to patients on digitalis , because hypercalcemia may precipitate cardiac arrhythmias .
Calcium acetate therapy should always be started at low dose and should not be increased without careful monitoring of serum calcium .
An estimate of daily calcium intake should be made initially and the intake adjusted as needed .
Serum phosphorus should also be determined periodically .
Information for patients The patients should be informed about compliance with dosage instructions , adherence to instructions about diet and avoidance of the use of nonprescription antacids .
Patients should be informed about the symptoms of hypercalcemia ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Drug interactions Calcium acetate may decrease the bioavailability of tetracyclines .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term animal studies have notbeen performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenicity , or effect on fertility of calcium acetate .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with calcium acetate .
It is not known whether calcium acetate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Calcium acetate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of calcium acetate ( N = 91 ) , 25 percent were 65 and over , while 7 percent were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical studies , patients have occasionally experienced nausea during calcium acetate therapy .
Hypercalcemia may occur during treatment with calcium acetate .
Mild hypercalcemia ( Ca > 10 . 5 mg / dl ) may be asymptomatic or manifest itself as constipation , anorexia , nausea and vomiting .
More severe hypercalcemia ( Ca > 12 mg / dl ) is associated with confusion , delirium , stupor and coma .
Mild hypercalcemia is easily controlled by reducing the calcium acetate dose or temporarily discontinuing therapy .
Severe hypercalcemia can be treated by acute hemodialysis and discontinuing calcium acetate therapy .
Decreasing dialysate calcium concentration could reduce the incidence and severity of calcium acetate induced hypercalcemia .
The long - term effect of calcium acetate on the progression of vascular or soft - tissue calcification has not been determined .
Isolated cases of pruritus have been reported which may represent allergic reactions .
Overdosage Administration of calcium acetate in excess of the appropriate daily dosage can cause severe hypercalcemia ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of calcium acetate capsules for the adult dialysis patient is 2 capsules with each meal .
The dosage may be increased gradually to bring the serum phosphate value below 6 mg / dl , as long as hypercalcemia does not develop .
Most patients require 3 to 4 capsules with each meal .
HOW SUPPLIED Calcium Acetate Capsules are supplied as white opaque / blue opaque capsules imprinted with “ 54 215 ” on the cap and body .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source NDC 53808 - 0216 - 1 667 mg 30 Capsule Blue Opaque 0054 - 0088 - 26 STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
This product was Manufactured By : Roxane Laboratories , Inc .
And Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States Package Label - Calcium Acetate Capsules , 667 mg 53808 - 0216 - 1 - 30 Capsules Rx Only Roxane Laboratories , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
