CIII Rx only DESCRIPTION Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a narcotic under the Controlled Substances Act due to its chemical derivation from thebaine .
Chemically , it is 17 - ( cyclopropylmethyl ) - α - ( 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) - 4 , 5 - epoxy - 18 , 19 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 6 - methoxy - α - methyl - 6 , 14 - ethenomorphinan - 7 - methanol , hydrochloride [ 5α , 7α ( S ) ] .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a white powder , weakly acidic and with limited solubility in water .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride injection is a clear , sterile , injectable agonist - antagonist analgesic intended for intravenous or intramuscular administration .
Each mL of buprenorphine hydrochloride injection contains 0 . 324 mg buprenorphine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 3 mg buprenorphine ) , 50 mg anhydrous dextrose , water for injection , and HCl to adjust pH to 3 . 5 to 5 . 5 .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride has the molecular formula , C29H41NO4 · HCl and the molecular weight of 504 . 09 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a parenteral opioid analgesic with 0 . 3 mg buprenorphine being approximately equivalent to 10 mg morphine sulfate in analgesic and respiratory depressant effects in adults .
Pharmacological effects occur as soon as 15 minutes after intramuscular injection and persist for 6 hours or longer .
Peak pharmacologic effects usually are observed at 1 hour .
When used intravenously , the times to onset and peak effect are shortened .
The limits of sensitivity of available analytical methodology precluded demonstration of bioequivalence between intramuscular and intravenous routes of administration .
In postoperative adults , pharmacokinetic studies have shown elimination half - lives ranging from 1 . 2 to 7 . 2 hours ( mean 2 . 2 hours ) after intravenous administration of 0 . 3 mg of buprenorphine .
A single , ten - patient , pharmacokinetic study of doses of 3 mcg / kg in children ( age 5 to 7 years ) showed a high inter - patient variability , but suggests that the clearance of the drug may be higher in children than in adults .
This is supported by at least one repeat - dose study in postoperative pain that showed an optimal inter - dose variable of 4 to 5 hours in pediatric patients as opposed to the recommended 6 to 8 hours in adults .
Buprenorphine , in common with morphine and other phenolic opioid analgesics , is metabolized by the liver and its clearance is related to hepatic blood flow .
Studies in patients anesthetized with 0 . 5 % halothane have shown that this anesthetic decreases hepatic blood flow by about 30 % .
Mechanism of Analgesic Action : Buprenorphine hydrochloride exerts its analgesic effect via high affinity binding to μ subclass opiate receptors in the central nervous system .
Although buprenorphine may be classified as a partial agonist , under the conditions of recommended use it behaves very much like classical μ agonists such as morphine .
One unusual property of buprenorphine observed in in vitro studies is its very slow rate of dissociation from its receptor .
This could account for its longer duration of action than morphine , the unpredictability of its reversal by opioid antagonists , and its low level of manifest physical dependence .
Narcotic Antagonist Activity : Buprenorphine demonstrates narcotic antagonist activity and has been shown to be equipotent with naloxone as an antagonist of morphine in the mouse tail flick test .
Cardiovascular Effects : Buprenorphine may cause a decrease or , rarely , an increase in pulse rate and blood pressure in some patients .
Effects on Respiration : Under usual conditions of use in adults , both buprenorphine and morphine show similar dose - related respiratory depressant effects .
At adult therapeutic doses , buprenorphine hydrochloride ( 0 . 3 mg buprenorphine ) can decrease respiratory rate in an equivalent manner to an equianalgesic dose of morphine ( 10 mg ) .
( See WARNINGS . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buprenorphine hydrochloride injection is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATION Buprenorphine hydrochloride should not be administered to patients who have been shown to be hypersensitive to the drug .
WARNINGS Impaired Respiration : As with other potent opioids , clinically significant respiratory depression may occur within the recommended dose range in patients receiving therapeutic doses of buprenorphine .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function ( e . g . , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , cor pulmonale , decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or preexisting respiratory depression ) .
Particular caution is advised if buprenorphine is administered to patients taking or recently receiving drugs with CNS / respiratory depressant effects .
In patients with the physical and / or pharmacological risk factors above , the dose should be reduced by approximately one - half .
NALOXONE MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN REVERSING THE RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION PRODUCED BY BUPRENORPHINE .
THEREFORE , AS WITH OTHER POTENT OPIOIDS , THE PRIMARY MANAGEMENT OF OVERDOSE SHOULD BE THE RE - ESTABLISHMENT OF ADEQUATE VENTILATION WITH MECHANICAL ASSISTANCE OF RESPIRATION , IF REQUIRED .
Interaction with Other Central Nervous System Depressants : Patients receiving buprenorphine hydrochloride in the presence of other narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , antihistamines , benzodiazepines , phenothiazines , other tranquilizers , sedative / hypnotics or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) may exhibit increased CNS depression .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , it is particularly important that the dose of one or both agents be reduced .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure : Buprenorphine hydrochloride , like other potent analgesics , may itself elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure and should be used with caution in head injury , intracranial lesions and other circumstances where cerebrospinal pressure may be increased .
Buprenorphine can produce miosis and changes in the level of consciousness which may interfere with patient evaluation .
Use In Ambulatory Patients : Buprenorphine may impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially dangerous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Therefore , buprenorphine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to ambulatory patients who should be warned to avoid such hazards .
Use in Narcotic - Dependent Patients : Because of the narcotic antagonist activity of buprenorphine , use in the physically dependent individual may result in withdrawal effects .
PRECAUTIONS General : Buprenorphine hydrochloride should be administered with caution in the elderly , debilitated patients , in children and those with severe impairment of hepatic , pulmonary , or renal function ; myxedema or hypothyroidism ; adrenal cortical insufficiency ( e . g . , Addison ’ s disease ) ; CNS depression or coma ; toxic psychoses ; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture ; acute alcoholism ; delirium tremens ; or kyphoscoliosis .
Because buprenorphine is metabolized by the liver , the activity of buprenorphine may be increased and / or extended in those individuals with impaired hepatic function or those receiving other agents known to decrease hepatic clearance .
Buprenorphine has been shown to increase intracholedochal pressure to a similar degree as other opioid analgesics , and thus should be administered with caution to patients with dysfunction of the biliary tract .
Information for Patients : The effects of buprenorphine , particularly drowsiness , may be potentiated by other centrally acting agents such as alcohol or benzodiazepines .
It is particularly important that in these circumstances patients must not drive or operate machinery .
Buprenorphine has some pharmacologic effects similar to morphine which in susceptible patients may lead to self - administration of the drug when pain no longer exists .
Patients must not exceed the dosage of buprenorphine prescribed by their physician .
Patients should be urged to consult their physician if other prescription medications are currently being used or are prescribed for future use .
Drug Interactions : Drug interactions common to other potent opioid analgesics also may occur with buprenorphine .
Particular care should be taken when buprenorphine hydrochloride is used in combination with central nervous system depressant drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
Although specific information is not presently available , caution should be exercised when buprenorphine hydrochloride is used in combination with MAO inhibitors .
There have been reports of respiratory and cardiovascular collapse in patients who received therapeutic doses of diazepam and buprenorphine .
A suspected interaction between buprenorphine hydrochloride and phenprocoumon resulting in purpura has been reported .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Since the metabolism of buprenorphine is mediated by the CYP3A4 isozyme , coadministration of drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of buprenorphine .
Thus patients coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin ) , azole antifungal agents ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) , and protease inhibitors ( e . g . , ritanovir ) while receiving buprenorphine should be carefully monitored and dosage adjustment made if warranted .
CYP3A4 Inducers : Cytochrome P450 inducers , such as rifampin , carbamazepine , and phenytoin , induce metabolism and as such may cause increased clearance of buprenorphine .
Caution is advised when administering buprenorphine to patients receiving these medications and if necessary dose adjustments should be considered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in Sprague - Dawley rats and CD - 1 mice .
Buprenorphine was administered in the diet at doses of 0 . 6 , 5 . 5 and 56 mg / kg / day for 27 months in rats .
These doses were approximately equivalent to 5 . 7 , 52 and 534 times the recommended human dose ( 1 . 2 mg ) on a mg / m2 body surface area basis .
Statistically significant dose - related increases in testicular interstitial ( Leydig ’ s ) cell tumors occurred , according to the trend test adjusted for survival .
Pairwise comparison of the high dose against control failed to show statistical significance .
In the mouse study , buprenorphine was administered in the diet at doses of 8 , 50 , and 100 mg / kg / day for 86 weeks .
The high dose was approximately equivalent to 477 times the recommended human dose ( 1 . 2 mg ) on a mg / m2 basis .
Buprenorphine was not carcinogenic in mice .
Mutagenesis : Buprenorphine was studied in a series of tests .
Results were negative in Chinese hamster bone marrow and spermatogonia cells , and negative in mouse lymphoma L5178Y assay .
Results were equivocal in the Ames test : negative in studies in two laboratories , but positive in frame shift mutation at high dose ( 5 mg / plate ) in a third study .
Impairment of Fertility : Reproduction studies of buprenorphine in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at daily oral doses up to 80 mg / kg ( approximately 763 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) or up to 5 mg / kg I . M . or S . C . ( approximately 48 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Teratogenic effects : Buprenorphine was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits after I . M . or S . C . doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 48 and 95 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , I . V . doses up to 0 . 8 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 times and 15 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , or oral doses up to 160 mg / kg / day in rats ( approximately 1525 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) and 25 mg / kg / day in rabbits ( approximately 475 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Significant increases in skeletal abnormalities ( e . g . extra thoracic vertebra or thoraco - lumbar ribs ) were noted in rats after S . C . administration of 1 mg / kg / day and up ( approximately 9 . 5 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) and in rabbits after I . M . administration of 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 95 times the recommended human daily dose of 1 . 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , but these increases were not statistically significant .
Increases in skeletal abnormalities after oral administration were not observed in rats , and increases in rabbits ( 1 - 25 mg / kg / day ) were not statistically significant .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery : The safety of buprenorphine given during labor and delivery has not been established .
Nursing Mothers : An apparent lack of milk production during general reproduction studies with buprenorphine in rats caused decreased viability and lactation indices .
Use of high doses of sublingual buprenorphine in pregnant women showed that buprenorphine passes into the mother ’ s milk .
Breast - feeding is therefore not advised in nursing mothers treated with buprenorphine .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of buprenorphine have been established for children between 2 and 12 years of age .
Use of buprenorphine in children is supported by evidence from adequate and well controlled trials of buprenorphine in adults , with additional data from studies of 960 children ranging in age from 9 months to 18 years of age .
Data is available from a pharmaco - kinetic study , several controlled clinical trials , and several large post - marketing studies and case series .
The available information provides reasonable evidence that buprenorphine may be used safely in children ranging from 2 to 12 years of age , and that it is of similar effectiveness in children as in adults .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent side effect in clinical studies involving 1 , 133 patients was sedation which occurred in approximately two - thirds of the patients .
Although sedated , these patients could easily be aroused to an alert state .
Other less frequent adverse reactions occurring in 5 to 10 % of the patients were : Nausea Dizziness / Vertigo Occurring in 1 to 5 % of the patients : Sweating Headache Hypotension Nausea / Vomiting Vomiting Hypoventilation Miosis The following adverse reactions were reported to have occurred in less than 1 % of the patients : CNS Effect : confusion , blurred vision , euphoria , weakness / fatigue , dry mouth , nervousness , depression , slurred speech , paresthesia .
Cardiovascular : hypertension , tachycardia , bradycardia .
Gastrointestinal : constipation .
Respiratory : dyspnea , cyanosis .
Dermatological : pruritus .
Ophthalmological : diplopia , visual abnormalities .
Miscellaneous : Injection site reaction , urinary retention , dreaming , flushing / warmth , chills / cold , tinnitus , conjunctivitis , Wenckebach block , and psychosis .
Other effects observed infrequently include malaise , hallucinations , depersonalization , coma , dyspepsia , flatulence , apnea , rash , amblyopia , tremor , and pallor .
The following reactions have been reported to occur rarely : loss of appetite , dysphoria / agitation , diarrhea , urticaria , and convulsions / lack of muscle coordination .
Allergic Reactions : Cases of acute and chronic hypersensitivity to buprenorphine have been reported both in clinical trials and in the postmarketing experience of buprenorphine and other buprenorphine - containing products .
The most common signs and symptoms include rashes , hives , and pruritus .
Cases of bronchospasm , angioneurotic edema , and anaphylactic shock have been reported .
A history of hypersensitivity to buprenorphine is a contraindication to buprenorphine .
In the United Kingdom , buprenorphine hydrochloride was made available under monitored release regulation during the first year of sale , and yielded data from 1 , 736 physicians on 9 , 123 patients ( 17 , 120 administrations ) .
Data on 240 children under the age of 18 years were included in this monitored release program .
No important new adverse effects attributable to buprenorphine hydrochloride were observed .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a partial agonist of the morphine type : i . e . , it has certain opioid properties which may lead to psychic dependence of the morphine type due to an opiate - like euphoric component of the drug .
Direct dependence studies have shown little physical dependence upon withdrawal of the drug .
However , caution should be used in prescribing to individuals who are known to be drug abusers or ex - narcotic addicts .
The drug may not substitute in acutely dependent narcotic addicts due to its antagonist component and may induce withdrawal symptoms .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations : Clinical experience with buprenorphine overdosage has been insufficient to define the signs of this condition at this time .
Although the antagonist activity of buprenorphine may become manifest at doses somewhat above the recommended therapeutic range , doses in the recommended therapeutic range may produce clinically significant respiratory depression in certain circumstances .
( See WARNINGS . )
Treatment : The respiratory and cardiac status of the patients should be monitored carefully .
Primary attention should be given to the re - establishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Doxapram , a respiratory stimulant , may be used .
NALOXONE MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN REVERSING THE RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION PRODUCED BY BUPRENORPHINE .
THEREFORE , AS WITH OTHER POTENT OPIOIDS , THE PRIMARY MANAGEMENT OF OVERDOSE SHOULD BE THE RE - ESTABLISHMENT OF ADEQUATE VENTILATION WITH MECHANICAL ASSISTANCE OF RESPIRATION , IF REQUIRED .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : The usual dosage for persons 13 years of age and over is 1 mL buprenorphine hydrochloride injection ( 0 . 3 mg buprenorphine ) given by deep intramuscular or slow ( over at least 2 minutes ) intravenous injection at up to 6 - hour intervals , as needed .
Repeat once ( up to 0 . 3 mg ) if required , 30 to 60 minutes after initial dosage , giving consideration to previous dose pharmacokinetics , and thereafter only as needed .
In high - risk patients ( e . g . , elderly , debilitated , presence of respiratory disease , etc . ) and / or in patients where other CNS depressants are present , such as in the immediate postoperative period , the dose should be reduced by approximately one - half .
Extra caution should be exercised with the intravenous route of administration , particularly with the initial dose .
Occasionally , it may be necessary to administer single doses of up to 0 . 6 mg to adults depending on the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
This dose should only be given IM and only to adult patients who are not in a high risk category ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
At this time , there are insufficient data to recommend single doses greater than 0 . 6 mg for long - term use .
Children : Buprenorphine hydrochloride has been used in children 2 to 12 years of age at doses between 2 to 6 micrograms / kg of body weight given every 4 to 6 hours .
There is insufficient experience to recommend a dose in infants below the age of two years , single doses greater than 6 micrograms / kg of body weight , or the use of a repeat or second dose at 30 to 60 minutes ( such as is used in adults ) .
Since there is some evidence that not all children clear buprenorphine faster than adults , fixed interval or " round - the - clock " dosing should not be undertaken until the proper inter - dose interval has been established by clinical observation of the child .
Physicians should recognize that , as with adults , some pediatric patients may not need to be remedicated for 6 to 8 hours .
Safety and Handling : Buprenorphine hydrochloride injection is supplied in sealed cartridges and poses no known environmental risk to health care providers .
Accidental dermal exposure should be treated by removal of any contaminated clothing and rinsing the affected area with water .
Buprenorphine is a potent narcotic , and like all drugs of this class has been associated with abuse and dependence among health care providers .
To control the risk of diversion , it is recommended that measures appropriate to the health care setting be taken to provide rigid accounting , control of wastage , and restriction of access .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED List Container Concentration Fill Quantity 2012 Carpuject ® 0 . 3 mg base / mL 1 mL 10 ( 22 - Gauge , 1 ¼ " Needle ) 2012 Carpuject ® 0 . 3 mg base / mL 1 mL 10 with Luer Lock Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from prolonged exposure to light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Do not freeze .
Revised : June , 2009 Printed in USA EN - 2088 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 , USA Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp , Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
