RX Only DESCRIPTION Granisetron hydrochloride tablets USP contain granisetron hydrochloride USP , an antinauseant and antiemetic agent .
Chemically it is endo - N - ( 9 - methyl - 9 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 ] non - 3 - yl ) - 1 - methyl - 1 H - indazole - 3 - carboxamide hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Granisetron hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol .
Tablets for Oral Administration Each white , triangular , biconvex , film - coated granisetron hydrochloride tablet USP contains 1 . 12 mg granisetron hydrochloride equivalent to granisetron , 1 mg .
Inactive ingredients are : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Granisetron is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with little or no affinity for other serotonin receptors , including 5 - HT1 ; 5 - HT1A ; 5 - HT1B / C ; 5 - HT2 ; for alpha1 - , alpha2 - , or beta - adrenoreceptors ; for dopamine - D2 ; or for histamine - H1 ; benzodiazepine ; picrotoxin or opioid receptors .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are located peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
During chemotherapy that induces vomiting , mucosal enterochromaffin cells release serotonin , which stimulates 5 - HT3 receptors .
This evokes vagal afferent discharge , inducing vomiting .
Animal studies demonstrate that , in binding to 5 - HT3 receptors , granisetron blocks serotonin stimulation and subsequent vomiting after emetogenic stimuli such as cisplatin .
In the ferret animal model , a single granisetron injection prevented vomiting due to high - dose cisplatin or arrested vomiting within 5 to 30 seconds .
In most human studies , granisetron has had little effect on blood pressure , heart rate or ECG .
No evidence of an effect on plasma prolactin or aldosterone concentrations has been found in other studies .
Following single and multiple oral doses , granisetron hydrochloride tablets slowed colonic transit in normal volunteers .
However , granisetron hydrochloride had no effect on oro - cecal transit time in normal volunteers when given as a single intravenous ( IV ) infusion of 50 mcg / kg or 200 mcg / kg .
Pharmacokinetics In healthy volunteers and adult cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy , administration of granisetron hydrochloride tablets produced mean pharmacokinetic data shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Median [ range ] ) Following Granisetron hydrochloride Tablets * Not determined after oral administration ; following a single intravenous dose of 40 mcg / kg , terminal phase half - life was determined to be 8 . 95 hours .
Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Terminal Phase Plasma Half - Life ( h ) Volume of Distribution ( L / kg ) Total Clearance ( L / h / kg ) Cancer Patients 1 mg bid , 7 days ( n = 27 ) 5 . 99 [ 0 . 63 to 30 . 9 ] N . D . * N . D . 0 . 52 [ 0 . 09 to 7 . 37 ] Volunteers single 1 mg dose ( n = 39 ) 3 . 63 [ 0 . 27 to 9 . 14 ] 6 . 23 [ 0 . 96 to 19 . 9 ] 3 . 94 [ 1 . 89 to 39 . 4 ] 0 . 41 [ 0 . 11 to 24 . 6 ] Absorption When granisetron tablets were administered with food , AUC was decreased by 5 % and Cmax increased by 30 % in non - fasted healthy volunteers who received a single dose of 10 mg .
Distribution Plasma protein binding is approximately 65 % and granisetron distributes freely between plasma and red blood cells .
Metabolism Granisetron metabolism involves N - demethylation and aromatic ring oxidation followed by conjugation .
In vitro liver microsomal studies show that granisetron ' s major route of metabolism is inhibited by ketoconazole , suggestive of metabolism mediated by the cytochrome P - 450 3 A subfamily .
Animal studies suggest that some of the metabolites may also have 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity .
Elimination Clearance is predominantly by hepatic metabolism .
In normal volunteers , approximately 11 % of the orally administered dose is eliminated unchanged in the urine in 48 hours .
The remainder of the dose is excreted as metabolites , 48 % in the urine and 38 % in the feces .
Subpopulations Gender The effects of gender on the pharmacokinetics of granisetron hydrochloride tablets have not been studied .
However , after intravenous infusion of granisetron hydrochloride , no difference in mean AUC was found between males and females , although males had a higher Cmax generally .
In elderly and pediatric patients and in patients with renal failure or hepatic impairment , the pharmacokinetics of granisetron was determined following administration of intravenous granisetron .
Elderly The ranges of the pharmacokinetic parameters in elderly volunteers ( mean age 71 years ) , given a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride injection , were generally similar to those in younger healthy volunteers ; mean values were lower for clearance and longer for half - life in the elderly .
Renal Failure Patients Total clearance of granisetron was not affected in patients with severe renal failure who received a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride injection .
Hepatically Impaired Patients A pharmacokinetic study with intravenous granisetron hydrochloride in patients with hepatic impairment due to neoplastic liver involvement showed that total clearance was approximately halved compared to patients without hepatic impairment .
Given the wide variability in pharmacokinetic parameters noted in patients , dosage adjustment in patients with hepatic functional impairment is not necessary .
Pediatric Patients A pharmacokinetic study in pediatric cancer patients ( 2 to 16 years of age ) , given a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride injection , showed that volume of distribution and total clearance increased with age .
No relationship with age was observed for peak plasma concentration or terminal phase plasma half - life .
When volume of distribution and total clearance are adjusted for body weight , the pharmacokinetics of granisetron are similar in pediatric and adult cancer patients CLINICAL TRIALS Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Granisetron hydrochloride tablets prevent nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer therapy , as shown by 24 hour efficacy data from studies using both moderately - and highly - emetogenic chemotherapy .
Moderatly Emetogenic Chemotherapy The first trial compared granisetron hydrochloride tablets doses of 0 . 25 mg to 2 mg twice a day , in 930 cancer patients receiving , principally , cyclophosphamide , carboplatin , and cisplatin ( 20 mg / m2 to 50 mg / m2 ) .
Efficacy was based on complete response ( i . e . , no vomiting , no moderate or severe nausea , no rescue medication ) , no vomiting , and no nausea .
Table 2 summarizes the results of this study .
Table 2 : Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting 24 Hours Post - Chemotherapy * * Chemotherapy included oral and injectable cyclophosphamide , carboplatin , cisplatin ( 20 mg / m2 to 50 mg / m2 ) , dacarbazine , doxorubicin , epirubicin .
† No vomiting , no moderate or severe nausea , no rescue medication .
‡ Statistically significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) vs . 0 . 25 mg bid .
§ Statistically significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) vs . 0 . 5 mg bid .
Percentages of Patients Granisetron hydrochloride Tablet Dose Efficacy Measures 0 . 25 mg twice a day ( n = 229 ) % 0 . 5 mg twice a day ( n = 235 ) % 1 mg twice a day ( n = 233 ) % 2 mg twice a day ( n = 233 ) % Complete Response † 61 70 ‡ 81 ‡§ 72 ‡ No Vomiting 66 77 ‡ 88 ‡ 79 ‡ No Nausea 48 57 63 ‡ 54 Results from a second double - blind , randomized trial evaluating granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg once a day and granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice a day were compared to prochlorperazine 10 mg twice a day derived from a historical control .
At 24 hours , there was no statistically significant difference in efficacy between the two granisetron hydrochloride tablet regimens .
Both regimens were statistically superior to the prochlorperazine control regimen ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting 24 Hours Post - Chemotherapy * * Moderately emetogenic chemotherapeutic agents included cisplatin ( 20 mg / m2 to 50 mg / m2 ) , oral and intravenous cyclophosphamide , carboplatin , dacarbazine , doxorubicin .
† Historical control from a previous double - blind granisetron hydrochloride trial .
‡ No vomiting , no moderate or severe nausea , no rescue medication .
§ Statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 ) vs . prochlorperazine historical control .
¶ No vomiting , no nausea , no rescue medication .
Efficacy Measures Percentages of Patients Granisetron hydrochloride Tablets 1 mg twice a day ( n = 354 ) % Granisetron hydrochloride Tablets 2 mg once a day ( n = 343 ) % Prochlorperazine † 10 mg twice daily ( n = 111 ) % Complete Response ‡ 69 § 64 § 41 No Vomiting 82 § 77 § 48 No Nausea 51 § 53 § 35 Total Control ¶ 51 § 50 § 33 Results from a granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg daily alone treatment arm in a third double - blind , randomized trial , were compared to prochlorperazine ( PCPZ ) , 10 mg bid , derived from a historical control .
The 24 hour results for granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg daily were statistically superior to PCPZ for all efficacy parameters : complete response ( 58 % ) , no vomiting ( 79 % ) , no nausea ( 51 % ) , total control ( 49 % ) .
The PCPZ rates are shown in Table 3 .
Cisplatin - Based Chemotherapy The first double - blind trial compared granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg bid , relative to placebo ( historical control ) , in 119 cancer patients receiving high - dose cisplatin ( mean dose 80 mg / m2 ) .
At 24 hours , granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg bid was significantly ( p < 0 . 001 ) superior to placebo ( historical control ) in all efficacy parameters : complete response ( 52 % ) , no vomiting ( 56 % ) and no nausea ( 45 % ) .
The placebo rates were 7 % , 14 % , and 7 % , respectively , for the three efficacy parameters .
Results from a granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg once a day alone treatment arm in a second double - blind , randomized trial , were compared to both granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice a day and placebo historical controls .
The 24 hour results for granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg once a day were : complete response ( 44 % ) , no vomiting ( 58 % ) , no nausea ( 46 % ) , total control ( 40 % ) .
The efficacy of granisetron hydrochloride tablets 2 mg once a day was comparable to granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice a day and statistically superior to placebo .
The placebo rates were 7 % , 14 % , 7 % , and 7 % , respectively , for the four parameters .
No controlled study comparing granisetron injection with the oral formulation to prevent chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting has been performed .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Total Body Irradiation In a double - blind randomized study , 18 patients receiving granisetron hydrochloride tablets , 2 mg daily , experienced significantly greater antiemetic protection compared to patients in a historical negative control group who received conventional ( non - 5 - HT3 antagonist ) antiemetics .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions of 120 cGy administered over 4 days , with three fractions on each of the first 3 days , and two fractions on the fourth day .
Granisetron hydrochloride tablets were given one hour before the first radiation fraction of each day .
Twenty - two percent ( 22 % ) of patients treated with granisetron hydrochloride tablets did not experience vomiting or receive rescue antiemetics over the entire 4 - day dosing period , compared to 0 % of patients in the historical negative control group ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , patients who received granisetron hydrochloride tablets also experienced significantly fewer emetic episodes during the first day of radiation and over the 4 day treatment period , compared to patients in the historical negative control group .
The median time to the first emetic episode was 36 hours for patients who received granisetron hydrochloride tablets .
Fractionated Abdominal Radiation The efficacy of granisetron hydrochloride tablets , 2 mg daily , was evaluated in a double - blind , placebo - controlled randomized trial of 260 patients .
granisetron hydrochloride tablets were given 1 hour before radiation , composed of up to 20 daily fractions of 180 to 300 cGy each .
The exceptions were patients with seminoma or those receiving whole abdomen irradiation who initially received 150 cGy per fraction .
Radiation was administered to the upper abdomen with a field size of at least 100 cm2 .
The proportion of patients without emesis and those without nausea for granisetron hydrochloride tablets , compared to placebo , was statistically significant ( p < 0 . 0001 ) at 24 hours after radiation , irrespective of the radiation dose .
Granisetron hydrochloride was superior to placebo in patients receiving up to 10 daily fractions of radiation , but was not superior to placebo in patients receiving 20 fractions .
Patients treated with granisetron hydrochloride tablets ( n = 134 ) had a significantly longer time to the first episode of vomiting ( 35 days vs . 9 days , p < 0 . 001 ) relative to those patients who received placebo ( n = 126 ) , and a significantly longer time to the first episode of nausea ( 11 days vs . 1 day , p < 0 . 001 ) .
granisetron hydrochloride provided significantly greater protection from nausea and vomiting than placebo .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Granisetron hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated for the prevention of : Nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer therapy , including high - dose cisplatin .
Nausea and vomiting associated with radiation , including total body irradiation and fractionated abdominal radiation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Granisetron hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components .
WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5 - HT3 receptor antagoinist alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of granisetron and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue granisetron and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if granisetron is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs ( see Drug Interactionsand Patient Counseling Information ) .
PRECAUTIONS Granisetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of granisetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention .
An adequate QT assessment has not been conducted , but QT prolongation has been reported with granisetron .
Therefore , granisetron should be used with caution in patients with pre - existing arrhythmias or cardiac conduction disorders , as this might lead to clinical consequences .
Patients with cardiac disease , on cardio - toxic chemotherapy , with concomitant electrolyte abnormalities and / or on concomitant medications that prolong the QT interval are particularly at risk .
Drug Interactions Granisetron does not induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system in vitro .
There have been no definitive drug - drug interaction studies to examine pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction with other drugs ; however , in humans , granisetron hydrochloride Injection has been safely administered with drugs representing benzodiazepines , neuroleptics , and anti - ulcer medications commonly prescribed with antiemetic treatments .
Granisetron hydrochloride Injection also does not appear to interact with emetogenic cancer chemotherapies .
Because granisetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of granisetron .
No specific interaction studies have been conducted in anesthetized patients .
In addition , the activity of the cytochrome P - 450 subfamily 3A4 ( involved in the metabolism of some of the main narcotic analgesic agents ) is not modified by granisetron hydrochloride in vitro .
In in vitro human microsomal studies , ketoconazole inhibited ring oxidation of granisetron .
However , the clinical significance of in vivo pharmacokinetic interactions with ketoconazole is not known .
In a human pharmacokinetic study , hepatic enzyme induction with phenobarbital resulted in a 25 % increase in total plasma clearance of intravenous granisetron .
The clinical significance of this change is not known .
QT prolongation has been reported with granisetron hydrochloride .
Use of granisetron hydrochloride in patients concurrently treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval and / or are arrhythmogenic may result in clinical consequences .
Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) [ see Warnings ] .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 24 month carcinogenicity study , rats were treated orally with granisetron 1 , 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( 6 , 30 or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
The 50 mg / kg / day dose was reduced to 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) during week 59 due to toxicity .
For a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 body surface area ) , these doses represent 4 , 20 , and 101 times the recommended clinical dose ( 1 . 48 mg / m2 , oral ) on a body surface area basis .
There was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas in males treated with 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , 20 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and above , and in females treated with 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day , 101 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
No increase in liver tumors was observed at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 6 mg / m2 / day , 4 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) in males and 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , 20 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) in females .
In a 12 month oral toxicity study , treatment with granisetron 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , 405 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) produced hepatocellular adenomas in male and female rats while no such tumors were found in the control rats .
A 24 month mouse carcinogenicity study of granisetron did not show a statistically significant increase in tumor incidence , but the study was not conclusive .
Because of the tumor findings in rat studies , granisetron hydrochloride should be prescribed only at the dose and for the indication recommended ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Granisetron was not mutagenic in in vitro Ames test and mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , and in vivo mouse micronucleus test and in vitro and ex vivo rat hepatocyte UDS assays .
It , however , produced a significant increase in UDS in HeLa cells in vitro and a significant increased incidence of cells with polyploidy in an in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration test .
Granisetron at oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , 405 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats at oral doses up to 125 mg / kg / day ( 750 mg / m2 / day , 507 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 32 mg / kg / day ( 378 mg / m2 / day , 255 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to granisetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether granisetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when granisetron hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use During clinical trials , 325 patients 65 years of age or older received granisetron hydrochloride tablets ; 298 were 65 to 74 years of age , and 27 were 75 years of age or older .
Efficacy and safety were maintained with increasing age .
ADVERSE REACTIONS QT prolongation has been reported with granisetron hydrochloride ( see PRECAUTIONSand Drug Interactions ) .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Over 3700 patients have received granisetron hydrochloride tablets in clinical trials with emetogenic cancer therapies consisting primarily of cyclophosphamide or cisplatin regimens .
In patients receiving granisetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg bid for 1 , 7 or 14 days , or 2 mg daily for 1 day , adverse experiences reported in more than 5 % of the patients with comparator and placebo incidences are listed in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Principal Adverse Events in Clinical Trials * Adverse events were recorded for 7 days when granisetron hydrochloride tablets were given on a single day and for up to 28 days when granisetron hydrochloride tablets were administered for 7 or 14 days .
† Metoclopramide / dexamethasone ; phenothiazines / dexamethasone ; dexamethasone alone ; prochlorperazine .
‡ Usually mild to moderate in severity .
Percent of Patients With Even Granisetron hydrochloride Tablets * 1 mg twice a day ( n = 978 ) Granisetron hydrochloride Tablets * 2 mg once a day ( n = 1450 ) Comparator † ( n = 599 ) Placebo ( n = 185 ) Headache 21 % 20 % 13 % 12 % Constipation 18 % 14 % 16 % 8 % Asthenia 14 % 18 % 10 % 4 % Diarrhea 8 % 9 % 10 % 4 % Abdominal pain 6 % 4 % 6 % 3 % Dyspepsia 4 % 6 % 5 % 4 % Other adverse events reported in clinical trials were : Gastrointestinal : In single - day dosing studies in which adverse events were collected for 7 days , nausea ( 20 % ) and vomiting ( 12 % ) were recorded as adverse events after the 24 hour efficacy assessment period .
Hepatic : In comparative trials , elevation of AST and ALT ( > 2 times the upper limit of normal ) following the administration of granisetron hydrochloride tablets occurred in 5 % and 6 % of patients , respectively .
These frequencies were not significantly different from those seen with comparators ( AST : 2 % ; ALT : 9 % ) .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension ( 1 % ) ; hypotension , angina pectoris , atrial fibrillation , and syncope have been observed rarely .
Central Nervous System : Dizziness ( 5 % ) , insomnia ( 5 % ) , anxiety ( 2 % ) , somnolence ( 1 % ) .
One case compatible with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal symptoms has been reported in a patient treated with granisetron tablets .
Hypersensitivity : Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( eg , anaphylaxis , shortness of breath , hypotension , urticaria ) have been reported .
Other : Fever ( 5 % ) .
Events often associated with chemotherapy also have been reported : leukopenia ( 9 % ) , decreased appetite ( 6 % ) , anemia ( 4 % ) , alopecia ( 3 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 2 % ) .
Over 5000 patients have received injectable granisetron hydrochloride in clinical trials .
Table 5 gives the comparative frequencies of the five commonly reported adverse events ( ≥ 3 % ) in patients receiving granisetron hydrochloride injection , 40 mcg / kg , in single - day chemotherapy trials .
These patients received chemotherapy , primarily cisplatin , and intravenous fluids during the 24 hour period following granisetron hydrochloride injection administration .
Table 5 : Principal Adverse Events in Clinical Trials — Single - Day Chemotherapy Percent of Patients with Event Granisetron hydrochloride Injection * 40 mcg / kg ( n = 1268 ) Comparator † ( n = 422 ) Headache 14 % 6 % Asthenia 5 % 6 % Somnolence 4 % 15 % Diarrhea 4 % 6 % Constipation 3 % 3 % * Adverse events were generally recorded over 7 days post - granisetron hydrochloride injection administration .
† Metoclopramide / dexamethasone and phenothiazines / dexamethasone .
In the absence of a placebo group , there is uncertainty as to how many of these events should be attributed to granisetron , except for headache , which was clearly more frequent than in comparison groups .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting In controlled clinical trials , the adverse events reported by patients receiving granisetron tablets and concurrent radiation were similar to those reported by patients receiving granisetron tablets prior to chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were diarrhea , asthenia , and constipation .
Headache , however , was less prevalent in this patient population .
Postmarketing Experience QT prolongation has been reported with granisetron ( see PRECAUTIONSand Drug Interactions ) .
OVERDOSAGE There is no specific treatment for granisetron hydrochloride overdosage .
In case of overdosage , symptomatic treatment should be given .
Overdosage of up to 38 . 5 mg of granisetron hydrochloride injection has been reported without symptoms or only the occurrence of a slight headache .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Emetogenic Chemotherapy The recommended adult dosage of oral granisetron hydrochloride is 2 mg once daily or 1 mg twice daily .
In the 2 mg once - daily regimen , two 1 mg tablets are given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy .
In the 1 mg twice - daily regimen , the first 1 mg tablet is given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy , and the second tablet 12 hours after the first .
Either regimen is administered only on the day ( s ) chemotherapy is given .
Continued treatment , while not on chemotherapy , has not been found to be useful .
Use in the Elderly , Renal Failure Patients or Hepatically Impaired Patients No dosage adjustment is recommended ( seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Radiation ( Either Total Body Irradiation or Fractionated Abdominal Radiation ) The recommended adult dosage of oral granisetron hydrochloride is 2 mg once daily .
Two 1 mg tablets are taken within 1 hour of radiation .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Use in the Elderly No dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Granisetron Hydrochloride Tablets USP are available as : White colored , triangular shaped , biconvex , film - coated tablets with debossing of ' 1 GN ' on one side and plain surface on the other side .
Granisetron HCl tablets , USP are available as 20 Unit Dose Tablets ( Intended for institutional use only ) and 2 ’ s pack .
NDC 63850 - 0005 - 1 - 20 ’ S Pack NDC No . 63850 - 0005 - 2 – 2 ’ S Pack Storage Store between 20º to 25ºC ( 68º and 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container closed tightly .
Protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of granisetron and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms .
Manufactured by : NATCO PHARMA LIMITED Kothur - 509 228 , India .
Granisetron Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 1 mg * - Blister of 20 ( 2x10 ) Unit Dose Tablets RX only NDC 63850 - 0005 - 1 * Each tablet contains 1 . 12 mg granisetron hydrochloride USP equivalent to granisetron , 1 mg This unit - dose package is not - child - resistant .
For institutional use only .
Dosage : Chemotherapy : 2 mg once daily or 1 mg twice daily .
In the 2 mg once daily regimen , two 1 mg tablets are given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy .
In the 1 mg twice daily regimen , the first 1 mg tablets is given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy and the second tablets 12 hours after the first .
Radiation : Two 1 mg tablets are taken within 1 hour of radiation .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Storage between 20 ° and 25 ° ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Uint dose Tablets - Foil [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Granisetron Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 1 mg * - Blister of 2 Tablets Rx only NDC 63850 - 0005 - 2 * Each tablet contains 1 . 12 mg granisetron hydrochloride USP equivalent to granisetron , 1 mg This unit - dose package is not - child - resistant .
Dosage : Chemotherapy : 2 mg once daily or 1 mg twice daily .
In the 2 mg once daily regimen , two 1 mg tablets are given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy .
In the 1 mg twice daily regimen , the first 1 mg tablets is given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy and the second tablets 12 hours after the first .
Radiation : Two 1 mg tablets are taken within 1 hour of radiation .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Storage between 20 ° and 25 ° ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Foil _ 2 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
