DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient : Purpose : Menthol 2 . 5 % ................................... External Analgesic Methyl Salicylate 15 % ......................
External Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , sprains .
Warnings : • For external use only .
• Do not use this product if safety seal is broken .
Store in room temperature .
• Do not use on wounds or damaged skin .
Do not apply in large quantities , particularly on raw and irritated or blistered areas .
• When using this product , avoid contact with eyes or mucus membranes .
Use only as directed .
Do not bandage tightly .
• Stop and ask doctor if condition worsen , if symptoms persist within 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Stop use if excessive skin irritation occurs .
• If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
Caution : Discontinue use if excessive irritation of the skin develops .
Avoid getting into eyes or mucous membranes .
If condition worsens , or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , or redness is present , or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age , discontinue use and consult a physician immediately .
Directions Apply to the affected area .
Gently massage into the skin for a few seconds .
Adults and children over 12 years of age : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age need to consult a physician .
Inactive Ingredients : Acrymalide , Amino Acids , Comfrey Leaf , Cetyl Alcohol , Diazolidinyl Urea , Dimethicone , Glucosamine , Methyl Paraben , MSM ( Methylsulfonylmethane ) , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Sodium Pyrrolidone Carboxylate , Stearic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol , Trolamine , Water .
Manufactured for : Interfarma Corp .
Miami , FL 33186 .
FAST RELIEF ARTROSAMIN For Temporarily Relieves minor aches and pains soreness , and stiffness associated with simple backaches strains , arthritis and rheumatism .
Net Wt 8 oz ( 226 g ) Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
