Active ingredient Pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Local anesthetic Use for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with hemorrhoids Warnings For external use only When using this product • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator • • do not insert any part of the aerosol container into the rectum Stop use and ask a doctor if • • rectal bleeding occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • • allergic reaction occurs to the ingredients in this product • • symptom being treated does not subside • • redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • place cap on container .
Shake well before use • • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application • • dispense onto a clean tissue and apply externally to the affected area up to 5 times daily • • children under 12 years of age : consult a physician Other information • • store upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) • • do not refrigerate • • contents of the container are under pressure .
Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container • • do not store at temperatures above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate PEG - 100 stearate blend , isobutane , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene 23 lauryl ether , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propane , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , trolamine Questions ?
1 - 888 - 350 - 1908 Distributed by : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 © 2021 Viatris Inc .
PROCTOFOAM is a registered trademark of Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC , a Viatris Company ..
Principal Display Panel – 1 % NDC 0037 - 6823 - 15 TAMPER EVIDENT FEATURE : Do not use if Meda Pharmaceuticals ® seal on ends of carton are broken or missing .
proctofoam ® non - steroid pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % hemorrhoidal foam For temporary relief of hemorrhoidal pain and itching STORE UPRIGHT NET WT .
0 . 53 OZ ( 15 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
