Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycolic Acid , Cyclomethicone , Ammonium Hydroxide , Butyl Salicylate , Glyceryl Stearate , Butlylene Glycol , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Pentaerythrityl Tetraisostearate , Cetearyl Alcohol , PEG - 150 Stearate , Hydrogenated Avocado Oil , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethiconol , Glycine Soja ( soybean ) sterols , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea butter ) , Petrolatum , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Dicetyl Phosphate , Glycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Disodium EDTA , Xanthan Gum , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Hyaluronic Acid Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 2 . 00 % Sunscreen Octinoxate 6 . 00 % Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Other Information This product is not intended as a sunscreen for sunbathing use .
Keep this product away from heat ( above 30 C / 86 F ) and direct sunlight .
Warnings Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use For external use only Do not swallow .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison control right away .
Children under 6 months ; ask doctor .
Uses : Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by sun .
For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions Apply in the morning to cleansed face and neck or as directed by physician .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours .
Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limite time in the sun , specially from 10 am to 2 pm .
Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glytone Essentials rejuvenate daily cream broad spectrum sunscreen SPF 15 Glycolic complex 50 ml e / net wt .
1 . 7 oz .
( 50 g ) Lightweight , oil - free cream combines glycolic acid , vitamin E and other clinically proven ingredients with SPF15 broad spectrum protection .
A unique , patented microvesicle delivery system slowly releases skin - enhancing glycolic acid and moisturizing agents throughout the day .
Smoothes , softens , and retexturizes skin for a healthy looking complexion .
Shea Butter , Avocado Oil and glycerin - Emollients that sooth the skin .
Hydrolyzed Collagen and Hyaluronic acid - Anti - aging ingredients that moisturize skin and give it volume and fullness .
Exclusive to physicians Pierre Fabre Distributed by : Genesis Pharmactical , Inc Parsippany , NY 07054 Made in USA 1 - 800 - 459 - 8663 www . glytone - use . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
