INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topex ® Fluoride Foams are indicated for topical application to teeth to aid in the prevention of dental caries .
The non - acidic nature of Neutral pH ( NaF ) is recommended for patients with ceramic or composite restorations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION 1 .
Remove cap from can .
If this is the first time using can , break the protective shipping tab by gently lifting up the trigger .
2 .
Shake can thoroughly for at least 10 seconds before each use .
3 .
Completely invert can and slowly depress trigger to dispense foam into a fluoride tray 4 .
Air dry teeth thoroughly and insert tray into patient ’ s mouth .
Have patient close into the tray and use a slight chewing motion to ensure interproximal coverage .
5 .
Leave tray in contact with teeth between 1 - 4 minutes .
Use a saliva ejector during treatment to minimize ingestion of product 6 .
Remove tray after elapsed time and have patient expectorate .
Instruct patient to refrain from drinking , eating , or rinsing for 30 minutes after treatment .
Treatment frequency should not exceed 4 treatments per year .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS APF topical Foam contains 2 . 73 % sodium fluoride ( 1 . 23 % fluoride ion ) .
NaF topical gel contains 2 . 0 % sodium fluoride ( 0 . 9 % fluoride ion ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to fluoride .
Do not use if patient has a known allergy to fluoride or any of the other ingredients in this product .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not swallow .
Harmful if swallowed .
Keep out of reach of children .
This product is not intended for home or unsupervised consumer use .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate canister .
Safety and effectiveness below age 3 have not been established .
There have been no long - term animal studies with this product to evaluate carcinogenic , mutagenic , or impairment of fertility potential .
Laboratory studies have indicated that repeated use of APF may dull porcelain , composite restorations and sealants .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Developing teeth of children under age 6 may become permanently discolored if excessive amounts are repeatedly swallowed .
The following adverse reactions are possible in individuals hypersensitive to fluoride : eczema , atopic dermatitis , urticarial , gastric distress , headache , and weakness .
OVERDOSAGE If treatment dose is swallowed ( less than 100 mg F ion ) , administer milk , limewater , or calcium - type antacid .
In case of larger doses , use ipecac syrup emetic and immediately seek medical help .
Overdose symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal pain .
DESCRIPTION Topex ® Fluoride Foams are a family of topical fluoride foam products for professional application in trays .
The family consists of APF Foam ( 1 . 23 % fluoride ion at a pH between 3 . 0 - 4 . 5 ) and Neutral pH Foam ( 0 . 9 % fluoride ion at a pH between 6 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) .
Topex ® Foam Fluoride products do not contain chlorofluorocarbon propellants .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled room temperature . ]
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Mixed Berry [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
