[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
The steroids in this class include triamcinolone acetonide .
Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains triamcinolone acetonide [ Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis - ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11β , 16α ) - ] , with the empirical formula C24H31FO6 and molecular weight 434 . 50 .
CAS 76 - 25 - 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains : 1 mg of triamcinolone acetonide per gram in a base containing emulsifying wax , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl palmitate , sorbitol solution , glycerin , lactic acid , benzyl alcohol and purified water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Triamcinolone acetonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypo - thalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glycosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of thermal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequencies of application , substitute a less potent steroid , or use a sequential approach when utilizing the occlusive technique .
Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Occasionally , a patient may develop a sensitivity reaction to a particular occlusive dressing material or adhesive and a substitute material may be necessary .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
These preparations are not for ophthalmic use .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions .
• This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ; ACTH stimulation test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply triamcinolone acetonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % as appropriate , to the affected area two to three times daily .
Rub in gently .
Occlusive Dressing Technique Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or other recalcitrant conditions .
Gently rub a small amount of cream into the lesion until it disappears .
Reapply the preparation leaving a thin coating on the lesion , cover with pliable nonporous film , and seal the edges .
If needed , additional moisture may be provided by covering the lesion with a dampened clean cotton cloth before the nonporous film is applied or by briefly wetting the affected area with water immediately prior to applying the medication .
The frequency of changing dressings is best determined on an individual basis .
It may be convenient to apply triamcinolone acetonide cream under an occlusive dressing in the evening and to remove the dressing in the morning ( i . e . , 12 - hour occlusion ) .
When utilizing the 12 - hour occlusion regimen , additional cream should be applied , without occlusion , during the day .
Reapplication is essential at each dressing change .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied in the following sizes : 15 gram tube ( NDC : 52565 - 056 - 15 ) 30 gram tube ( NDC : 52565 - 056 - 30 ) 80 gram tube ( NDC : 52565 - 056 - 80 ) 1 lb jar ( 454 grams ) ( NDC : 52565 - 056 - 26 ) Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , NJ 08310 PI - 056 - 00 08 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 0 . 1 % 15 g CONTAINER NDC 52565 - 056 - 15 Teligent Pharma , Inc .
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE CREAM USP , 0 . 1 % Rx only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 0 . 1 % 15 g CARTON NDC 52565 - 056 - 15 Rx only Teligent Pharma , Inc .
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE CREAM USP , 0 . 1 % WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 1 % 1 lb Jar NDC 52565 - 056 - 26 Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % Net Wt 1 lb ( 454 grams ) Rx Only For External Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use [ MULTIMEDIA ]
