Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings For this product Do not use If you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 claims * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Cool Mint Listerine Antiseptic mouthwash .
" The ADA council on Scientific Affairs ' Acceptance of Premier Value Blue Mint Antiseptic Mouth Rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed . "
Adverse Reactions If for any reason you are not satisfied with this product , please return it to the store where purchased for a full refund DISTRIBUTED BY CHAIN DRUG CONSORTIUM 3301 NW BOCA RATON BLVD SUITE 101 , BOCA RATON , FL 33431 Principal Display Panel SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION COMPARE TO COOL MINT LISTERINE ANTSEPTIC MOUTHWASH Premier Value Antiseptic Mouthrinse Antigingivitis / Antiplaque blue mint kils germs that cause bad breath , plaque & the gum disease gingiviis ADA Accepted American Dental Association 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
