For Dermatologic Use Only – Not for Ophthalmic Use PRODUCT INFORMATION DESCRIPTION Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of corticosteroid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methyl - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment 0 . 05 % contains : 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate , USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in ACTIBASE ® , an optimized vehicle of propylene glycol ; propylene glycol stearate ( 55 % monoester ) ; white wax ; and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses , corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
At 14 g per day , Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment was shown to depress the plasma levels of adrenal cortical hormones following repeated application to diseased skin in patients with psoriasis .
Adrenal depression in these patients was transient , and rapidly returned to normal upon cessation of treatment .
At 7 g per day ( 3 . 5 g b . i . d . ) , Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment was shown to cause minimal inhibition of the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis when applied two times daily for 2 to 3 weeks , in normal patients and in patients with psoriasis and eczematous disorders .
With 6 g to 7 g of Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment applied once daily for 3 weeks , no significant inhibition of the HPA axis was observed in patients with psoriasis and atopic dermatitis , as measured by plasma cortisol and 24 - hour urinary 17 - hydroxy - corticosteroid levels .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment is indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : • Urinary free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topically applied corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic effects of topically applied corticosteroids in pregnant women .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Data regarding use of Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment in pediatric patients are not available , so use of this product in patients under the age of 12 is not recommended .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The local adverse reactions reported with Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment applied either once or twice a day during clinical studies are as follows : erythema , 3 per 767 patients ; folliculitis , 2 per 767 patients ; pruritus , 2 per 767 patients ; vesiculation , 1 per 767 patients .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when topical corticosteroids are used as recommended .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
Treatment with Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment should be limited to 45 g per week .
Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment is not to be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Augmented Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment 0 . 05 % is supplied in 15 - g ( NDC 59930 - 1575 - 1 ) and 50 - g ( NDC 59930 - 1575 - 3 ) tubes ; boxes of one .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation Reno , NV 89506 USA Rev . 3 / 04 28362102 Copyright © 1995 , 1996 , 1999 , Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
All rights reserved .
