Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies - Sneezing - Nasal Stuffiness - Runny nose - Post nasal drip Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) Removes nasal and sinus drainage Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes Moisturizes dry nasal passages Keep out of reach of children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
see instructions inside box for proper water sources Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : Use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) up to every two hours as needed .
Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use .
Instructions for Use of the Squeeze Bottle : Directions and Dosage : Read through entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Remove the cap from the squeeze bottle .
2 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry into the Squeeze Bottle .
First - time users should start with 1 packet of the saline dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 2 full packets , Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the bottle with proper water * leaving approximately 1 / 2 inch of air at the top of the bottle .
This makes 1 cup ( 8 oz ) of solution .
4 .
Tighten the cap on the bottle securely , place one finger over the tip of the cap and and gently shake the bottle until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
5 .
Lean over the sink with your head bent so you are looking directly directly into the basin .
Place the tip of the cap up to the right nostril and gently insert the tip so that it forms a comfortable seal .
Aim the tip at the back of your head , not at the top of your head .
6 .
Squeeze the bottle gently so that the solution enters the right nostril .
Do not inhale or " snort " the solution into your nose - breathe through your mouth .
7 .
In a few moments the solution will begin to drain out of the left nostril .
Continue to squeeze the bottle gently until you have used approximately half of the solution .
8 .
Remove the tip of the bottle from your nostril , then exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
9 .
Repeat the procedure on the left nostril with the remaining solution .
10 .
A small amount of the solution will remain in the bottom of the bottle .
Discard the remaining solution .
11 .
Thoroughly rinse the bottle after each use with water that has been distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the bottle open to air dry completely .
The Squeeze Bottle is top - rack dishwasher safe .
Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP ( 700 mg ) Sodium Chloride USP ( 2300 mg ) Inactive Ingredients None [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
