DESCRIPTION Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam is a keratolytic emollient in a water and lipid based foam containing lactic acid which is a gentle , but potent , tissue softener for skin and nails .
Each gram of Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam contains Urea 35 % as the active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : dimethicone , ethylparaben , glycerin , lactic acid , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 20 , povidone , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , trolamine , and in propellants butane and propane .
CHEMICAL STRUCTURE Urea has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topically applied urea dissolves the intercellular matrix of the skin which results in enhanced shedding of scaly , dry skin and thus a softening of the hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Urea topically applied to the nail plate has a similar effect on the intercellular matrix of the nail plate .
PHARMACOKINETICS The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For enzymatic debridement and promotion of normal healing of surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris , or eschar .
Topically applied urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis , keratoderma , and dry , rough skin , as well as corns and calluses and damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
WARNINGS Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam is for external use only .
It is not for ophthalmic , oral , anal or intravaginal use .
Contact with eyes , lips , and all mucous membranes should be avoided .
Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam should not be used by persons who have a known hypersensitivity to urea or any of the other listed ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam should be used only as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it is prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult with a prescribing physician .
Pregnancy ( Category B ) – Animal reproduction studies have not been performed with topically applied urea and it is not known whether Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nevertheless , Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam should be used by a pregnant woman only if necessary .
Nursing Mothers – It is not known whether topically applied urea is excreted in human milk .
Due to the fact that many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised by physicians when administering Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam to nursing mothers .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation is possible .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Unless otherwise directed by a prescribing physician , Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam should be applied to affected area twice a day .
Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam should be rubbed into the skin until it is completely absorbed .
HOW SUPPLIED Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam is supplied in a 150 gram or 5 . 3 ounce aerosolized canister bearing the NDC Number 42192 - 115 - 15 .
Enter section text here [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 42192 - 115 - 15 Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam Rx Only Net Wt .
5 . 3 oz .
( 150 g ) NDC 42192 - 115 - 15 Rx Only Net Wt .
5 . 3 oz .
( 150 g ) Dosage and Administration : Clean and dry affected skin .
Then apply Urea 35 % Hydrating Topical Foam topically to cover affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Shake vigorously before each application and invert can to administer .
Store at room temperature 59 ° - 77 ° F ( 15 ° - 25 ° C ) .
See prescribing information for additional details .
Ingredients : urea 35 % , dimethicone , ethylparaben , glycerin , lactic acid , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 20 , povidone , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , trolamine , and in propellants butane and propane .
Warning : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to temperatures over 120 ° F ( 48 ° C ) even when empty .
Keep out of reach of children .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
