DESCRIPTION : Each gram of 50 % Urea Emulsion contains 50 % urea in a formulation consisting of : caprylic / capric triglyceride , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , hydroxyethyl cellulose , lactic acid , linoleic acid , PEG - 6 , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , sorbitan stearate , titanium dioxide , triethanolamine , purified water , vitamin E , xanthan gum and zinc undecylenate .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix , which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas .
PHARMACOKINETICS : The mechanism of action of the topically applied Urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
PRECAUTIONS : This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use .
PREGNANCY : Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus ; however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , 50 % Urea Emulsion should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 50 % Urea Emulsion is administered to a nursing woman KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear on discontinuing the medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply 50 % Urea Emulsion to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
HOW SUPPLIED : 50 % Urea Emulsion is supplied in a 10 oz .
tube ( NDC 42192 - 101 - 10 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , incipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC 9005 Westside Parkway Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 How to properly use 50 % Urea Emulsion In a zinc undecylenate and lactic acid vehicle Easy steps to treat dry skin conditions including psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , dermatitis , pruritus , eczema , corns and calluses .
For skin : 1 .
Apply 50 % Urea Emulsion to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
2 .
Rub in until completely absorbed ( for best results apply to moistened skin ) .
NDC 42192 - 101 - 10 50 % Urea Emulsion In a zinc undecylenate and lactic acid vehicle Rx Only Net Weight 10 oz For Topical Use Only Indications : For use on rough dry skin conditions .
See carton or package insert for instructions .
USE ONLY AS DIRECTED BY A PHYSICIAN .
Ingredients : Each gram of 50 % Urea Emulsion contains 50 % urea in a formulation consisting of caprylic or capric triglyceride , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , hydroxyethyl cellulose , lactic acid , linoleic acid , PEG - 6 , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , sorbitan stearate , titanium dioxide , triethanolamine , purified water , vitamin E , xanthan gum and zinc undecylenate .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Protect from freezing .
For lot number and expiration date , see crimp of tube .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Note : This is not an Orange Book product .
Please see insert for further details .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals 9005 Westside Parkway Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
