Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every two hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information - protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Cetearyl alcohol , Glyceryl stearate , PEG - 40 castor oil , Glycerin , Silica , Dicaprylyl carbonate , Dimethicone , Sodium potassium aluminum silicate , Butylene glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Montmorillonite , Caprylyl glycol , Tocopheryl acetate , Xanthan gum , Disodium EDTA , Tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Litchi chinensis pericarp extract CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Description No7 CC Cream A multi action complexion correction cream for a beautifully bare make up look .
With make - up and skincare properties , this light textured CC Cream will help to even the appearance of skin tone and skin texture for brighter looking skin .
For best results : Shake well before use .
Smooth on evenly with your fingers or sponge .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in Canada www . boots . com Tube No7 CC Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 20 40 ml e 1 . 3 US Fl . Oz .
Warnings Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately Description A multi action complexion correction cream for a beautifully bare make - up look .
With make - up and skin care properties , this CC Cream will help to even the appearance of skin tone and skin texture for brighter looking skin .
Information The Boots Company PLC The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in Canada www . boots . com CC Cream Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
