DESCRIPTION CORTISPORIN Cream ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone acetate cream , USP ) is a topical antibacterial cream .
Each gram contains : neomycin sulfate equivalent to 3 . 5 mg neomycin base , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , and hydrocortisone acetate 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) .
The inactive ingredients are liquid petrolatum , white petrolatum , propylene glycol , polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene compound , emulsifying wax , purified water , and 0 . 25 % methylparaben added as a preservative .
Sodium hydroxide or sulfuric acid may be added to adjust pH . Neomycin sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C , which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent of not less than 600µg of neomycin standard per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 , which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone acetate is the acetate ester of hydrocortisone , an anti - inflammatory hormone .
Its chemical name is 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11β , 17 - dihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The base is a smooth vanishing cream with a pH of approximately 5 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticoids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they may delay healing .
Since corticoids may inhibit the body ’ s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
The anti - infective components in the combination are included to provide action against specific organisms susceptible to them .
Polymyxin B sulfate and neomycin sulfate together are considered active against the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella - Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens and streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
The acid pH helps restore normal cutaneous acidity .
Owing to its excellent spreading and penetrating properties , the cream facilitates treatment of hairy and intertriginous areas .
It may also be of value in selective cases where the lesions are moist .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses with secondary infection .
It has not been demonstrated that this steroid - antibiotic combination provides greater benefit than the steroid component alone after 7 days of treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Not for use in the eyes or in the external ear canal if the eardrum is perforated .
This product is contraindicated in tuberculous , fungal , or viral lesions of the skin ( herpes simplex , vaccinia , and varicella ) .
This product is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Because of the concern of nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity associated with neomycin , this combination should not be used over a wide area or for extended periods of time .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralAs with any antibacterial preparation , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Appropriate measures should be taken if this occurs .
Use of steroids on infected areas should be supervised with care as anti - inflammatory steroids may encourage spread of infection .
If this occurs , steroid therapy should be stopped and appropriate anti - bacterial drugs used .
Generalized dermatological conditions may require systemic corticosteroid therapy .
Signs and symptoms of exogenous hyperadrenocorticism can occur with the use of topical corticosteroids , including adrenal suppression .
Systemic absorption of topically applied steroids will be increased if extensive body surface areas are treated or if occlusive dressings are used .
Under these circumstances , suitable precautions should be taken when long - term use is anticipated .
Specifically , sufficient percutaneous absorption of hydrocortisone can occur in pediatric patients during prolonged use to cause cessation of growth , as well as other systemic signs and symptoms of hyperadrenocorticism .
Information for PatientsIf redness , irritation , swelling or pain persists or increases , discontinue use and notify physician .
Do not use in the eyes .
Laboratory TestsSystemic effects of excessive levels of hydrocortisone may include a reduction in the number of circulating eosinophils and a decrease in urinary excretion of 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLongterm studies in animals ( rats , rabbits , mice ) showed no evidence of carcinogenicity attributable to oral administration of corticosteroids .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when applied topically at concentrations of 0 . 5 % on days 6 to 18 of gestation and in mice when applied topically at a concentration of 15 % on days 10 to 13 of gestation .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersHydrocortisone acetate appears in human milk following oral administration of the drug .
Since systemic absorption of hydrocortisone may occur when applied topically , caution should be exercised when CORTISPORIN Cream is used by a nursing woman .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of Cortisporin Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Neomycin occasionally causes skin sensitization .
Ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have also been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Adverse reactions have occurred with topical use of antibiotic combinations including neomycin and polymyxin B . Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
The reaction occurring most often is allergic sensitization .
In one clinical study , using a 20 % neomycin patch , neomycin - induced allergic skin reactions occurred in two of 2 , 175 ( 0 . 09 % ) individuals in the general population . 1 In another study , the incidence was found to be approximately 1 % . 2 The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , especially under occlusive dressings : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
When steroid preparations are used for long periods of time in intertriginous areas or over extensive body areas , with or without occlusive non - permeable dressings , striae may occur ; also there exists the possibility of systemic side effects when steroid preparations are used over large areas or for a long period of time .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small quantity of the cream should be applied 2 to 4 times daily , as required .
The cream should , if conditions permit , be gently rubbed into the affected areas .
HOW SUPPLIED Tube of 7 . 5 g ( NDC 54868 - 1531 - 1 ) .
Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
References • Leyden JJ , Kligman AM .
Contact dermatitis to neomycin sulfate .
JAMA .
1979 ; 242 : 1276 - 1278 .
• Prystowsky SD , Allen AM , Smith RW , et al .
Allergic contact hypersensitivity to nickel , neomycin , ethylenediamine , and benzocaine .
Arch Dermatol .
1979 ; 115 : 959 - 962 .
Prescribing Information as of November 2003 .
Distributed by : Monarch Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Bristol , TN 37620 ( A wholly owned subsidiary of King Pharmaceuticals , Inc . ) Manufactured by : King Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Bristol , TN 37620 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CORTISPORIN Cream ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone acetate cream , USP ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
