Warnings and Precautions , Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis ( 5 . 5 ) 11 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium for injection is a proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) indicated in adults for the following : • • Short - term treatment ( 7 to 10 days ) of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) associated with a history of Erosive Esophagitis ( EE ) .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger - Ellison ( ZE ) Syndrome .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for short - term treatment ( 7 to 10 days ) of adult patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) and a history of erosive esophagitis ( EE ) .
Safety and efficacy of pantoprazole sodium for injection as a treatment of patients with GERD and a history of EE for more than 10 days have not been demonstrated .
1 . 2 Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger - Ellison ( ZE ) Syndrome in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD Associated with EE ( 2 . 1 ) • • The recommended adult dosage is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days .
( 2 . 1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions , Including ZE Syndrome ( 2 . 3 ) : • • The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg administered every 12 hours by intravenous infusion .
For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs , see the full prescribing information .
Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) : • • Only for intravenous infusion .
• • The intravenous infusion can be administered over 2 minutes or 15 minutes .
• • For information on how to prepare and administer for each indication , see the full prescribing information .
2 . 1 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days .
Discontinue treatment with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection as soon as the patient is able to receive treatment with Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets or Oral Suspension .
Data on the safe and effective dosing for conditions other than those described [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] such as life - threatening upper gastrointestinal bleeds , are not available .
Pantoprazole sodium for injection 40 mg once daily does not raise gastric pH to levels sufficient to contribute to the treatment of such life - threatening conditions .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Only for intravenous infusion ; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended .
Fifteen Minute Infusion 1 .
Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
2 .
Further dilute with 100 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP , to a final concentration of approximately 0 . 4 mg / mL .
3 .
Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration .
4 .
Administer intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes at a rate of approximately 7 mL / min .
Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature prior to further dilution .
The admixed solution may be stored at room temperature and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution .
Both the reconstituted solution and the admixed solution do not need to be protected from light .
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution .
Two Minute Infusion 1 .
Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg / mL .
2 .
Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration .
3 .
Administer intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes .
Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature prior to intravenous infusion and does not need to be protected from light .
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution .
2 . 3 Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg intravenously every 12 hours .
The frequency of dosing can be adjusted to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements .
In those patients who need a higher dosage , 80 mg intravenously every 8 hours is expected to maintain acid output below 10 mEq / h .
Daily doses higher than 240 mg or administered for more than 6 days have not been studied [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Transition from oral to intravenous and from intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors should be performed in such a manner to ensure continuity of effect of suppression of acid secretion .
Patients with ZE Syndrome may be vulnerable to serious clinical complications of increased acid production even after a short period of loss of effective inhibition .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome Only for intravenous infusion ; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended .
Fifteen Minute Infusion 1 .
Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
2 .
Combine the contents of the two vials and further dilute with 80 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP , to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0 . 8 mg / mL .
3 .
Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration .
4 .
Administer intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes at a rate of approximately 7 mL / min .
Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature prior to further dilution .
The admixed solution may be stored at room temperature and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution .
Both the reconstituted solution and the admixed solution do not need to be protected from light .
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution .
Two Minute Infusion 1 .
Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg / mL .
2 .
Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration .
3 .
Administer the total volume from both vials intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes .
Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature prior to intravenous infusion and does not need to be protected from light .
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution .
2 . 5 Compatibility Information • • Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y - site .
• • Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP .
• • When administered through a Y - site , pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions : 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP .
• • Midazolam HCl has been shown to be incompatible with Y - site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection .
• • Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • When pantoprazole sodium for injection is administered through a Y - site , immediately stop use if precipitation or discoloration occurs .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Injection : 40 mg of pantoprazole as a sterile , freeze - dried , white to off - white , porous cake or powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
• • For Injection : 40 mg pantoprazole freeze - dried powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole .
Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis , anaphylactic shock , angioedema , bronchospasm , acute tubulointerstitial nephritis , and urticaria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• • Proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) , including pantoprazole sodium for injection , are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine - containing products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles .
( 4 ) • • Patients receiving rilpivirine - containing products .
( 4 , 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Gastric Malignancy : In adults , symptomatic response to therapy with pantoprazole sodium for injection does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Consider additional follow - up and diagnostic testing .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity and Severe Skin Reactions : Anaphylaxis has been reported .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Injection Site Reactions : Thrombophlebitis is associated with the administration of intravenous pantoprazole .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Potential Exacerbation of Zinc Deficiency : Consider zinc supplementation in patients who are prone to zinc deficiency .
Caution should be used when other EDTA containing products are also co - administered intravenously .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis : Discontinue treatment and evaluate patients .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea : PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Bone Fracture : Long term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis - related fractures of the hip , wrist or spine .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus : Mostly cutaneous ; new onset or exacerbation of existing disease ; discontinue pantoprazole sodium for injection and refer to specialist for evaluation .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Hepatic Effects : Elevations of transaminases observed .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Hypomagnesemia : Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs .
( 5 . 10 ) • • Fundic Gland Polyps : Risk increases with long - term use , especially beyond one year .
Use the shortest duration of therapy .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy In adults , symptomatic response to therapy with pantoprazole sodium for injection does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Consider additional follow - up and diagnostic testing in adult patients who have a suboptimal response or an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI .
In older patients , also consider an endoscopy .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity and Severe Skin Reactions Anaphylaxis and other serious reactions such as erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) have been reported with use of pantoprazole sodium for injection .
These may require emergency medical treatment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Injection Site Reactions Thrombophlebitis was associated with the administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection .
5 . 4 Potential for Exacerbation of Zinc Deficiency Pantoprazole sodium for injection contains edetate disodium ( the salt form of EDTA ) , a chelator of metal ions including zinc .
Therefore , zinc supplementation should be considered in patients treated with pantoprazole sodium for injection who are prone to zinc deficiency .
Caution should be used when other EDTA containing products are also co - administered intravenously [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 5 Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis ( TIN ) has been observed in patients taking PPIs and may occur at any point during PPI therapy .
Patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non - specific symptoms of decreased renal function ( e . g . , malaise , nausea , anorexia ) .
In reported case series , some patients were diagnosed on biopsy and in the absence of extra - renal manifestations ( e . g . , fever , rash or arthralgia ) .
Discontinue pantoprazole sodium and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like pantoprazole sodium may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea , especially in hospitalized patients .
This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
5 . 7 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis - related fractures of the hip , wrist , or spine .
The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high - dose , defined as multiple daily doses , and long - term PPI therapy ( a year or longer ) .
Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
Patients at risk for osteoporosis - related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 8 Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Cutaneous lupus erythematosus ( CLE ) and systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) have been reported in patients taking PPIs , including pantoprazole sodium .
These events have occurred as both new onset and an exacerbation of existing autoimmune disease .
The majority of PPI - induced lupus erythematous cases were CLE .
The most common form of CLE reported in patients treated with PPIs was subacute CLE ( SCLE ) and occurred within weeks to years after continuous drug therapy in patients ranging from infants to the elderly .
Generally , histological findings were observed without organ involvement .
Systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) is less commonly reported than CLE in patients receiving PPIs .
PPI associated SLE is usually milder than non - drug induced SLE .
Onset of SLE typically occurred within days to years after initiating treatment primarily in patients ranging from young adults to the elderly .
The majority of patients presented with rash ; however , arthralgia and cytopenia were also reported .
Avoid administration of PPIs for longer than medically indicated .
If signs or symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are noted in patients receiving pantoprazole sodium , discontinue the drug and refer the patient to the appropriate specialist for evaluation .
Most patients improve with discontinuation of the PPI alone in 4 to 12 weeks .
Serological testing ( e . g . ANA ) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to resolve than clinical manifestations .
5 . 9 Hepatic Effects Mild , transient transaminase elevations have been observed in clinical studies .
The clinical significance of this finding in a large population of subjects administered pantoprazole sodium is unknown [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 10 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia , symptomatic and asymptomatic , has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months , and in most cases after a year of therapy .
Serious adverse events include tetany , arrhythmias , and seizures .
In most patients , treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI .
For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia ( e . g . , diuretics ) , health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 11 Fundic Gland Polyps PPI use is associated with an increased risk of fundic gland polyps that increases with long - term use , especially beyond one year .
Most PPI users who developed fundic gland polyps were asymptomatic and fundic gland polyps were identified incidentally on endoscopy .
Use the shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
5 . 12 Interference with Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A ( CgA ) levels increase secondary to drug - induced decreases in gastric acidity .
The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors .
Healthcare providers should temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high .
If serial tests are performed ( e . g . for monitoring ) , the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing , as reference ranges between tests may vary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 13 Interference with Urine Screen for THC Pantoprazole sodium may produce false - positive urine screen for THC ( tetrahydrocannabinol ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 14 Concomitant Use of Pantoprazole Sodium with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate ( primarily at high dose ; see methotrexate prescribing information ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and / or its metabolite , possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities .
In high - dose methotrexate administration , a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling : • • Hypersensitivity and Severe Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Injection Site Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Potential for Exacerbation of Zinc Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Bone Fracture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Hepatic Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • • Hypomagnesemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • • Fundic Gland Polyps [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) are : headache , diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain , vomiting , flatulence , dizziness , and arthralgia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AuroMedics Pharma LLC at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Worldwide , approximately 80 , 500 patients have been treated with pantoprazole in clinical trials involving various dosages and duration of treatment .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Safety in nine randomized comparative U . S . clinical trials in patients with GERD included 1 , 473 patients on oral pantoprazole sodium ( 20 mg or 40 mg ) , 299 patients on an H2 - receptor antagonist , 46 patients on another PPI , and 82 patients on placebo .
The most frequently occurring adverse reactions are listed in Table 1 .
The number of patients treated in comparative studies with pantoprazole sodium for injection is limited ; however , the adverse reactions seen were similar to those seen in the oral studies .
Thrombophlebitis was the only new adverse reaction identified with pantoprazole sodium for injection .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials of Adult Patients with GERD at a Frequency of > 2 % Oral Pantoprazole Sodium ( n = 1473 ) % Comparators ( n = 345 ) % Placebo ( n = 82 ) % Headache 12 . 2 12 . 8 8 . 5 Diarrhea 8 . 8 9 . 6 4 . 9 Nausea 7 . 0 5 . 2 9 . 8 Abdominal pain 6 . 2 4 . 1 6 . 1 Vomiting 4 . 3 3 . 5 2 . 4 Flatulence 3 . 9 2 . 9 3 . 7 Dizziness 3 . 0 2 . 9 1 . 2 Arthralgia 2 . 8 1 . 4 1 . 2 Additional adverse reactions that were reported for oral pantoprazole sodium in U . S . clinical trials with a frequency of ≤ 2 % are listed below by body system : Body as a Whole : allergic reaction , fever , photosensitivity reaction , facial edema , thrombophlebitis ( I . V . only ) Gastrointestinal : constipation , dry mouth , hepatitis Hematologic : leukopenia ( reported in ex - U . S . clinical trials only ) , thrombocytopenia Metabolic / Nutritional : elevated CPK ( creatine phosphokinase ) , generalized edema , elevated triglycerides , liver function tests abnormal Musculoskeletal : myalgia Nervous : depression , vertigo Skin and Appendages : urticaria , rash , pruritus Special Senses : blurred vision Zollinger - Ellison ( ZE ) Syndrome In clinical studies of ZE Syndrome , adverse reactions reported in 35 patients administered pantoprazole sodium doses of 80 mg to 240 mg per day for up to 2 years were similar to those reported in adult patients with GERD .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of oral pantoprazole sodium and intravenous pantoprazole sodium .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are listed below by body system : General Disorders and Administration Conditions : asthenia , fatigue , malaise Immune System Disorders : anaphylaxis ( including anaphylactic shock ) , systemic lupus erythematosus Investigations : weight changes Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : severe dermatologic reactions ( some fatal ) , including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , angioedema ( Quincke ’ s edema ) and cutaneous lupus erythematosus Musculoskeletal Disorders : rhabdomyolysis , bone fracture Renal and Urinary Disorders : acute tubulointerstitial nephritis Hepatobiliary Disorders : hepatocellular damage leading to jaundice and hepatic failure Psychiatric Disorder : hallucinations , confusion , insomnia , somnolence Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders : hyponatremia , hypomagnesemia Infections and Infestations : Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Hematologic : pancytopenia , agranulocytosis Nervous : ageusia , dysgeusia Gastrointestinal Disorders : fundic gland polyps 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them .
Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs .
Table 2 : Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co - Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact : The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable .
The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known .
• • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs ( e . g . , rilpivirine atazanavir , and nelfinavir ) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance .
• • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs ( e . g . , saquinavir ) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs .
• • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole .
Intervention : Rilpivirine - containing products : Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
See prescribing information .
Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information .
Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium See prescribing information for nelfinavir .
Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities .
Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information .
Warfarin Clinical Impact : Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs , including pantoprazole , and warfarin concomitantly .
Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death .
Intervention : Monitor INR and prothrombin time .
Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range .
See prescribing information for warfarin .
Clopidogrel Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel - induced platelet inhibition [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection .
Methotrexate Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate ( primarily at high dose ) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and / or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate , possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities .
No formal drug interaction studies of high - dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
Intervention : A temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole sodium may be considered in some patients receiving high - dose methotrexate .
Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption ( e . g . , iron salts , erlotinib , dasatinib , nilotinib , mycophenolate mofetil , ketoconazole / itraconazole ) Clinical Impact : Pantoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity .
Intervention : Mycophenolate mofetil ( MMF ) : Co - administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite , mycophenolic acid ( MPA ) , possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving pantoprazole sodium and MMF .
Use pantoprazole sodium with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF .
See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption .
Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact : CgA levels increase secondary to PPI - induced decreases in gastric acidity .
The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Intervention : Temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high .
If serial tests are performed ( e . g . for monitoring ) , the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing , as reference ranges between tests may vary .
False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact : There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) in patients receiving PPIs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Intervention : An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results .
See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published observational studies did not demonstrate an association of major malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with pantoprazole .
In animal reproduction studies , no evidence of adverse development outcomes was observed with pantoprazole .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the recommended human dose ) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the recommended human dose ) with administration of pantoprazole during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole in this study ( see Data ) .
A pre - and post - natal development toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate the effect on bone development was performed with pantoprazole sodium .
Oral pantoprazole doses of 5 , 15 , and 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 , 3 , and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg / day ) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day ( GD ) 6 through lactation day ( LD ) 21 .
Changes in bone morphology were observed in pups exposed to pantoprazole in utero and through milk during the period of lactation as well as by oral dosing from postnatal day ( PND ) 4 through PND 21 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
There were no drug - related findings in maternal animals .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk of fetal harm .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Available data from published observational studies failed to demonstrate an association of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes and pantoprazole use .
Methodological limitations of these observational studies cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug - associated risk during pregnancy .
In a prospective study by the European Network of Teratology Information Services , outcomes from a group of 53 pregnant women administered median daily doses of 40 mg pantoprazole were compared to a control group of 868 pregnant women who did not take any proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) .
There was no difference in the rate of major malformations between women exposed to PPIs and the control group , corresponding to a Relative Risk ( RR ) = 0 . 55 , [ 95 % Confidence Interval ( CI ) 0 . 08 - 3 . 95 ] .
In a population - based retrospective cohort study covering all live births in Denmark from 1996 to 2008 , there was no significant increase in major birth defects during analysis of first trimester exposure to pantoprazole in 549 live births .
A meta - analysis that compared 1 , 530 pregnant women exposed to PPIs in at least the first trimester with 133 , 410 unexposed pregnant women showed no significant increases in risk for congenital malformations or spontaneous abortion with exposure to PPIs ( for major malformations OR = 1 . 12 ( [ 95 % CI 0 . 86 - 1 . 45 ] and for spontaneous abortions OR = 1 . 29 [ 95 % CI 0 . 84 - 1 . 97 ] ) .
Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous pantoprazole doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) with administration of pantoprazole sodium during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole .
A pre - and post - natal development toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate the effect on bone development was performed with pantoprazole sodium .
Oral pantoprazole doses of 5 , 15 , and 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 , 3 , and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg / day on a body surface area basis ) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day ( GD ) 6 through lactation day ( LD ) 21 .
On postnatal day ( PND 4 ) through PND 21 , the pups were administered oral doses at 5 , 15 , and 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 , 2 . 3 , and 3 . 2 times the exposure ( AUC ) in humans at a dose of 40 mg ) .
There were no drug - related findings in maternal animals .
During the preweaning dosing phase ( PND 4 to 21 ) of the pups , there were increased mortality and / or moribundity and decreased body weight and body weight gain at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately equal exposures ( AUC ) in humans receiving the 40 mg dose ) and higher doses .
On PND 21 , decreased mean femur length and weight and changes in femur bone mass and geometry were observed in the offspring at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately equal exposures ( AUC ) in humans at the 40 mg dose ) and higher doses .
The femur findings included lower total area , bone mineral content and density , periosteal and endosteal circumference , and cross - sectional moment of inertia .
There were no microscopic changes in the distal femur , proximal tibia , or stifle joints .
Changes in bone parameters were partially reversible following a recovery period , with findings on PND 70 limited to lower femur metaphysis cortical / subcortical bone mineral density in female pups at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately equal exposures ( AUC ) in humans at the 40 mg dose ) and higher doses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Pantoprazole has been detected in breast milk of a nursing mother after a single 40 mg oral dose of pantoprazole .
There were no effects on the breastfed infant ( see Data ) .
There are no data on pantoprazole effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for pantoprazole sodium for injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from pantoprazole or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data The breast milk of a 42 - year - old woman receiving 40 mg of oral pantoprazole , at 10 months postpartum , was studied for 24 hours , to demonstrate low levels of pantoprazole present in the breast milk .
Pantoprazole was detectable in milk only 2 and 4 hours after the dose with milk levels of approximately 36 mcg / L and 24 mcg / L , respectively .
A milk - to - plasma ratio of 0 . 022 was observed at 2 hours after drug administration .
Pantoprazole was not detectable ( < 10 mcg / L ) in milk at 6 , 8 and 24 hours after the dose .
The relative dose to the infant was estimated to be 7 . 3 mcg of pantoprazole , which is equivalent to 0 . 14 % of the weight - adjusted maternal dose .
No adverse events in the infant were reported by the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection have not been established in pediatric patients .
Animal Toxicity Data In a pre - and post - natal development toxicity study in rats , the pups were administered oral doses of pantoprazole at 5 , 15 , and 30 mg / kg / day on postnatal day ( PND 4 ) through PND 21 , in addition to lactational exposure through milk .
On PND 21 , decreased mean femur length and weight and changes in femur bone mass and geometry were observed in the offspring at 5 mg / kg / day and higher doses .
Changes in bone parameters were partially reversible following a recovery period [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
In neonatal / juvenile animals ( rats and dogs ) toxicities were similar to those observed in adult animals , including gastric alterations , decreases in red cell mass , increases in lipids , enzyme induction and hepatocellular hypertrophy .
An increased incidence of eosinophilic chief cells in adult and neonatal / juvenile rats , and atrophy of chief cells in adult rats and in neonatal / juvenile dogs , was observed in the fundic mucosa of stomachs in repeated - dose studies .
Full to partial recovery of these effects were noted in animals of both age groups following a recovery period .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 286 patients in clinical studies of intravenous pantoprazole sodium in patients with GERD and a history of EE , 86 ( 43 % ) were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience with oral pantoprazole sodium has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Experience in patients taking very high doses of pantoprazole ( greater than 240 mg ) is limited .
Adverse reactions seen in spontaneous reports of overdose generally reflect the known safety profile of pantoprazole .
Pantoprazole is not removed by hemodialysis .
In case of overdose , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Single intravenous doses of pantoprazole at 378 , 230 , and 266 mg / kg ( 38 , 46 , and 177 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) were lethal to mice , rats and dogs , respectively .
The symptoms of acute toxicity were hypoactivity , ataxia , hunched sitting , limb - splay , lateral position , segregation , absence of ear reflex , and tremor .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in pantoprazole sodium for injection ( pantoprazole sodium ) , a PPI , is a substituted benzimidazole , sodium 5 - ( difluoromethoxy ) - 2 - [ [ ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxy - 2 - pyridinyl ) methyl ] sulfinyl ] - 1 H - benzimidazole , a compound that inhibits gastric acid secretion .
Its molecular formula is C16H14F2N3NaO4S , with a molecular weight of 405 . 4 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pantoprazole sodium USP is a white to off - white powder and is racemic .
Pantoprazole has weakly basic and acidic properties .
Pantoprazole sodium is freely soluble in water , very slightly soluble in phosphate buffer at pH 7 . 4 , and practically insoluble in n - hexane .
The stability of the compound in aqueous solution is pH - dependent .
The rate of degradation increases with decreasing pH . The reconstituted solution of pantoprazole sodium for injection is in the pH range 9 . 0 to 10 . 5 .
Pantoprazole sodium for injection is supplied for intravenous administration as a sterile , freeze - dried , white to off - white , porous cake or powder in a single - dose clear glass vial fitted with a rubber stopper and crimp seal .
Each vial contains 40 mg pantoprazole ( equivalent to 45 . 1 mg of pantoprazole sodium USP ) , edetate disodium ( 1 mg ) , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pantoprazole is a PPI that suppresses the final step in gastric acid production by covalently binding to the ( H + , K + ) - ATPase enzyme system at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cell .
This effect leads to inhibition of both basal and stimulated gastric acid secretion irrespective of the stimulus .
The binding to the ( H + , K + ) - ATPase results in a duration of antisecretory effect that persists longer than 24 hours for all doses tested ( 20 mg to 120 mg ) .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Antisecretory Activity The magnitude and time course for inhibition of pentagastrin - stimulated acid output ( PSAO ) by single doses ( 20 to 120 mg ) of pantoprazole sodium were assessed in a single - dose , open - label , placebo - controlled , dose - response study .
The results of this study are shown in Table 3 .
Healthy subjects received a continuous infusion for 25 hours of pentagastrin ( PG ) at 1 mcg / kg / h , a dose known to produce submaximal gastric acid secretion .
The placebo group showed a sustained , continuous acid output for 25 hours , validating the reliability of the testing model .
Pantoprazole sodium had an onset of antisecretory activity within 15 to 30 minutes of administration .
Doses of 20 to 80 mg of pantoprazole sodium substantially reduced the 24 - hour cumulative PSAO in a dose - dependent manner , despite a short plasma elimination half - life .
Complete suppression of PSAO was achieved with 80 mg within approximately 2 hours and no further significant suppression was seen with 120 mg .
The duration of action of pantoprazole sodium was 24 hours .
Table 3 : Gastric Acid Output ( mEq / hr , Mean ± SD ) and Percent Inhibitiona ( Mean ± SD ) of Pentagastrin - Stimulated Acid Output Over 24 Hours Following a Single Dose of Pantoprazole Sodiumb in Healthy Subjectsa : Compared to individual subject baseline prior to treatment with pantoprazole sodium .
NA = not applicable .
b : Inhibition of gastric acid output and the percent inhibition of stimulated acid output in response to pantoprazole sodium may be higher after repeated doses .
------ 2 hours ----- ‑ ------ 4 hours ----- ‑ ------ 12 hours ----- ------ 24 hours ----- Treatment Dose Acid Output % Inhibition Acid Output % Inhibition Acid Output % Inhibition Acid Output % Inhibition 0 mg ( Placebo , n = 4 ) 39 ± 21 NA 26 ± 14 NA 32 ± 20 NA 38 ± 24 NA 20 mg ( n = 4 to 6 ) 13 ± 18 47 ± 27 6 ± 8 83 ± 21 20 ± 20 54 ± 44 30 ± 23 45 ± 43 40 mg ( n = 8 ) 5 ± 5 82 ± 11 4 ± 4 90 ± 11 11 ± 10 81 ± 13 16 ± 12 52 ± 36 80 mg ( n = 8 ) 0 . 1 ± 0 . 2 96 ± 6 0 . 3 ± 0 . 4 99 ± 1 2 ± 2 90 ± 7 7 ± 4 63 ± 18 In one study of gastric pH in healthy subjects , pantoprazole sodium was administered orally ( 40 mg enteric coated tablets ) or pantoprazole sodium for injection ( 40 mg ) once daily for 5 days and pH was measured for 24 hours following the fifth dose .
The outcome measure was median percent of time that pH was ≥ 4 and the results were similar for intravenous and oral medications ; however , the clinical significance of this parameter is unknown .
Serum Gastrin Effects Serum gastrin concentrations were assessed in two placebo - controlled studies .
In a 5 - day study of oral pantoprazole with 40 and 60 mg doses in healthy subjects , following the last dose on day 5 , median 24 - hour serum gastrin concentrations were elevated by 3 - to 4 - fold compared to placebo in both 40 and 60 mg dose groups .
However , by 24 hours following the last dose , median serum gastrin concentrations for both groups returned to normal levels .
In another placebo - controlled , 7 - day study of 40 mg intravenous or oral pantoprazole in patients with GERD and a history of EE , the mean serum gastrin concentration increased approximately 50 % from baseline and as compared with placebo , but remained within the normal range .
During 6 days of repeated administration of pantoprazole sodium in patients with ZE Syndrome , consistent changes of serum gastrin concentrations from baseline were not observed .
Enterochromaffin - Like ( ECL ) Cell Effects There are no data available on the effects of intravenous pantoprazole sodium on ECL cells .
In a nonclinical study in Sprague - Dawley rats , lifetime exposure ( 24 months ) to oral pantoprazole at doses of 0 . 5 to 200 mg / kg / day resulted in dose - related increases in gastric ECL - cell proliferation and gastric neuroendocrine ( NE ) - cell tumors .
Gastric NE - cell tumors in rats may result from chronic elevation of serum gastrin concentrations .
The high density of ECL cells in the rat stomach makes this species highly susceptible to the proliferative effects of elevated gastrin concentrations produced by PPIs .
However , there were no observed elevations in serum gastrin following the administration of oral pantoprazole at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day .
In a separate study , a gastric NE - cell tumor without concomitant ECL - cell proliferative changes was observed in 1 female rat following 12 months of dosing with oral pantoprazole at 5 mg / kg / day and a 9 month off - dose recovery [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Endocrine Effects In a clinical pharmacology study , pantoprazole 40 mg given orally once daily for 2 weeks had no effect on the levels of the following hormones : cortisol , testosterone , triiodothyronine ( T3 ) , thyroxine ( T4 ) , thyroid - stimulating hormone , thyronine - binding protein , parathyroid hormone , insulin , glucagon , renin , aldosterone , follicle - stimulating hormone , luteinizing hormone , prolactin and growth hormone .
In a 1 - year study of GERD patients treated with pantoprazole 40 mg or 20 mg , there were no changes from baseline in overall levels of T3 , T4 , and TSH .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pantoprazole peak serum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the serum concentration - time curve ( AUC ) increase in a manner proportional to intravenous doses from 10 mg to 80 mg .
Pantoprazole does not accumulate and its pharmacokinetics are unaltered with multiple daily dosing .
Following the administration of pantoprazole sodium , the serum concentration of pantoprazole declines biexponentially with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately one hour .
In CYP2C19 extensive metabolizers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] with normal liver function receiving a 40 mg dose of pantoprazole sodium by constant rate over 15 minutes , the peak concentration ( Cmax ) is 5 . 52 ± 1 . 42 mcg / mL and the total area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) is 5 . 4 ± 1 . 5 mcg hr / mL .
The total clearance is 7 . 6 to 14 L / h .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of pantoprazole is approximately 11 to 23 . 6 L , distributing mainly in extracellular fluid .
The serum protein binding of pantoprazole is about 98 % , primarily to albumin .
Elimination Metabolism Pantoprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver through the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system .
Pantoprazole metabolism is independent of the route of administration ( intravenous or oral ) .
The main metabolic pathway is demethylation , by CYP2C19 , with subsequent sulfation ; other metabolic pathways include oxidation by CYP3A4 .
There is no evidence that any of the pantoprazole metabolites have significant pharmacologic activity .
CYP2C19 displays a known genetic polymorphism due to its deficiency in some sub - populations ( e . g . , 3 % of Caucasians and African - Americans and 17 to 23 % of Asians ) .
Although these sub - populations of slow pantoprazole metabolizers have elimination half - life values from 3 . 5 to 10 hours , they still have minimal accumulation ( 23 % or less ) with once daily dosing .
Excretion After administration of a single intravenous dose of 14 C - labeled pantoprazole sodium to healthy , extensive CYP2C19 metabolizers , approximately 71 % of the dose was excreted in the urine with 18 % excreted in the feces through biliary excretion .
There was no renal excretion of unchanged pantoprazole .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients After repeated intravenous administration in elderly subjects ( 65 to 76 years of age ) , the AUC and elimination half - life values of pantoprazole were similar to those observed in younger subjects .
Male and Female Patients After oral administration there was a modest increase in the AUC and Cmax of pantoprazole in women compared to men .
However , weight - normalized clearance values are similar in women and men .
Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment , pharmacokinetic parameters for pantoprazole were similar to those of healthy subjects .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A to C ) , maximum pantoprazole concentrations increased only slightly ( 1 . 5 - fold ) relative to healthy subjects when pantoprazole sodium was administered orally .
Although serum half - life values increased to 7 to 9 hours and AUC values increased by 5 - to 7 - fold in hepatic - impaired patients , these increases were no greater than those observed in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers , where no dosage adjustment is warranted .
These pharmacokinetic changes in hepatic - impaired patients result in minimal drug accumulation following once - daily , multiple - dose administration .
Oral pantoprazole doses higher than 40 mg per day have not been studied in hepatically impaired patients .
Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Other Drugs on Pantoprazole Pantoprazole is metabolized mainly by CYP2C19 and to minor extents by CYPs 3A4 , 2D6 and 2C9 .
In in vivo drug - drug interaction studies with CYP2C19 substrates ( diazepam [ also a CYP3A4 substrate ] and phenytoin [ also a CYP3A4 inducer ] ) , nifedipine , midazolam , and clarithromycin ( CYP3A4 substrates ) , metoprolol ( a CYP2D6 substrate ) , diclofenac , naproxen and piroxicam ( CYP2C9 substrates ) and theophylline ( a CYP1A2 substrate ) in healthy subjects , the pharmacokinetics of pantoprazole were not significantly altered .
Effect of Pantoprazole on Other Drugs Clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
In a crossover clinical study , 66 healthy subjects were administered clopidogrel ( 300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg per day ) alone and with oral pantoprazole ( 80 mg at the same time as clopidogrel ) for 5 days .
On Day 5 , the mean AUC of the active metabolite of clopidogrel was reduced by approximately 14 % ( geometric mean ratio was 86 % , with 90 % CI of 79 to 93 % ) when pantoprazole sodium was coadministered with clopidogrel as compared to clopidogrel administered alone .
Pharmacodynamic parameters were also measured and demonstrated that the change in inhibition of platelet aggregation ( induced by 5 micromolar ADP ) was correlated with the change in the exposure to clopidogrel active metabolite .
The clinical significance of this finding is not clear .
Mycophenolate Mofetil ( MMF ) Administration of oral pantoprazole 40 mg twice daily for 4 days and a single 1000 mg dose of MMF approximately one hour after the last dose of pantoprazole to 12 healthy subjects in a cross - over study resulted in a 57 % reduction in the Cmax and 27 % reduction in the AUC of MPA .
Transplant patients receiving approximately 2000 mg per day of MMF ( n = 12 ) were compared to transplant patients receiving approximately the same dose of MMF and oral pantoprazole 40 mg per day ( n = 21 ) .
There was a 78 % reduction in the Cmax and a 45 % reduction in the AUC of MPA in patients receiving both pantoprazole and MMF [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Other Drugs In vivo studies also suggest that pantoprazole does not significantly affect the kinetics of other drugs ( cisapride , theophylline , diazepam [ and its active metabolite , desmethyldiazepam ] , phenytoin , metoprolol , nifedipine , carbamazepine , midazolam , clarithromycin , diclofenac , naproxen , piroxicam and oral contraceptives [ levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol ] ) .
In other in vivo studies , digoxin , ethanol , glyburide , antipyrine , caffeine , metronidazole , and amoxicillin had no clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole .
Although no significant drug - drug interactions have been observed in clinical studies , the potential for significant drug - drug interactions with more than once daily dosing with high doses of pantoprazole has not been studied in poor metabolizers or individuals who are hepatically impaired .
Antacids There was also no interaction with concomitantly administered antacids .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2C19 displays a known genetic polymorphism due to its deficiency in some subpopulations ( e . g . , approximately 3 % of Caucasians and African - Americans and 17 % to 23 % of Asians are poor metabolizers ) .
Although these subpopulations of pantoprazole poor metabolizers have elimination half - life values of 3 . 5 to 10 . 0 hours in adults , they still have minimal accumulation ( 23 % or less ) with once - daily dosing .
For adult patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers , no dosage adjustment is needed .
Similar to adults , pediatric patients who have the poor metabolizer genotype of CYP2C19 ( CYP2C19 * 2 / * 2 ) exhibited greater than a 6 - fold increase in AUC compared to pediatric extensive ( CYP2C19 * 1 / * 1 ) and intermediate ( CYP2C19 * 1 / * x ) metabolizers .
Poor metabolizers exhibited approximately 10 - fold lower apparent oral clearance compared to extensive metabolizers .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , Sprague - Dawley rats were treated orally with pantoprazole doses of 0 . 5 to 200 mg / kg / day , about 0 . 1 to 40 times the exposure on a body surface area basis of a 50 - kg person dosed at 40 mg / day .
In the gastric fundus , treatment with 0 . 5 to 200 mg / kg / day produced enterochromaffin - like ( ECL ) cell hyperplasia and benign and malignant neuroendocrine cell tumors in a dose - related manner .
In the forestomach , treatment with 50 and 200 mg / kg / day ( about 10 and 40 times the recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) produced benign squamous cell papillomas and malignant squamous cell carcinomas .
Rare gastrointestinal tumors associated with pantoprazole treatment included an adenocarcinoma of the duodenum with 50 mg / kg / day and benign polyps and adenocarcinomas of the gastric fundus with 200 mg / kg / day .
In the liver , treatment with 0 . 5 to 200 mg / kg / day produced dose - related increases in the incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas .
In the thyroid gland , treatment with 200 mg / kg / day produced increased incidences of follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas for both male and female rats .
In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , Fischer 344 rats were treated orally with pantoprazole doses of 5 to 50 mg / kg / day , approximately 1 to 10 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area .
In the gastric fundus , treatment with 5 to 50 mg / kg / day produced enterochromaffin - ‑ like ( ECL ) cell hyperplasia and benign and malignant neuroendocrine cell tumors .
Dose selection for this study may not have been adequate to comprehensively evaluate the carcinogenic potential of pantoprazole .
In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , B6C3F1 mice were treated orally with pantoprazole doses of 5 to 150 mg / kg / day , 0 . 5 to 15 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area .
In the liver , treatment with 150 mg / kg / day produced increased incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in female mice .
Treatment with 5 to 150 mg / kg / day also produced gastric fundic ECL cell hyperplasia .
A 26 - week p53 + / - transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study was not positive .
Pantoprazole was positive in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assays , in one of two mouse micronucleus tests for clastogenic effects , and in the in vitro Chinese hamster ovarian cell / HGPRT forward mutation assay for mutagenic effects .
Equivocal results were observed in the in vivo rat liver DNA covalent binding assay .
Pantoprazole was negative in the in vitro Ames mutation assay , the in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) assay with rat hepatocytes , the in vitro AS52 / GPT mammalian cell - forward gene mutation assay , the in vitro thymidine kinase mutation test with mouse lymphoma L5178Y cells , and the in vivo rat bone marrow cell chromosomal aberration assay .
There were no effects on fertility or reproductive performance when pantoprazole was given at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day in male rats ( 98 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and 450 mg / kg / day in female rats ( 88 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis A multicenter , double - blind , two - period placebo - controlled study was conducted to assess the ability of pantoprazole sodium for injection to maintain gastric acid suppression in patients switched from pantoprazole sodium Delayed - Release Tablets to pantoprazole sodium for injection .
GERD patients ( n = 65 , 26 to 64 years ; 35 female ; 9 Black , 11 Hispanic , 44 White , 1 other ) with a history of EE were randomized to receive either 20 or 40 mg of oral pantoprazole once per day for 10 days ( period 1 ) , and then were switched in period 2 to either daily pantoprazole sodium for injection or placebo for 7 days , matching their respective dose level from period 1 .
Patients were administered all test medication with a light meal .
Maximum acid output ( MAO ) and basal acid output ( BAO ) were determined 24 hours following the last day of oral medication ( day 10 ) , the first day ( day 1 ) of intravenous administration and the last day of intravenous administration ( day 7 ) .
MAO was estimated from a 1 hour continuous collection of gastric contents following subcutaneous injection of 6 . 0 mcg / kg of pentagastrin .
This study demonstrated that , after 10 days of repeated oral administration followed by 7 days of intravenous administration , the oral and intravenous dosage forms of pantoprazole sodium 40 mg are similar in their ability to suppress MAO and BAO in patients with GERD and a history of EE ( see Table 4 ) .
Also , patients on oral pantoprazole sodium who were switched to intravenous placebo experienced a significant increase in acid output within 48 hours of their last oral dose ( see Table 4 ) .
However , at 48 hours after their last oral dose , patients treated with pantoprazole sodium for injection had a significantly lower mean basal acid output ( see Table 4 ) than those treated with placebo .
Table 4 : Antisecretory Effects ( mEq / h ) of 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets in GERD Patients with a History of EE * p < 0 . 0001 Significantly different from pantoprazole sodium for injection .
Parameter Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets DAY 10 Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection DAY 7 Intravenous Placebo DAY 7 Mean maximum acid output 6 . 49 n = 30 6 . 62 n = 23 29 . 19 * n = 7 Mean basal acid output 0 . 80 n = 30 0 . 53 n = 23 4 . 14 * n = 7 To evaluate the effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium as an initial treatment to suppress gastric acid secretion , two studies were conducted .
Study 1 was a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled , study of the pharmacodynamic effects of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets .
Patients with GERD and a history of EE ( n = 78 , 20 to 67 years ; 39 females ; 7 Black , 19 Hispanic , 52 White ) were randomized to receive either 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection , 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets , or placebo once daily for 7 days .
Following an overnight fast , test medication was administered and patients were given a light meal within 15 minutes .
MAO and BAO were determined 24 hours following the last day of study medication .
MAO was estimated from a 1 hour continuous collection of gastric contents following subcutaneous injection of 6 . 0 mcg / kg of pentagastrin to stimulate acid secretion .
This study demonstrated that , after treatment for 7 days , patients treated with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection had a significantly lower MAO and BAO than those treated with placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) , and results were comparable to those of patients treated with Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets ( see Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Antisecretory Effects ( mEq / h ) of Initial Treatment with 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets in GERD Patients with a History of EE * p < 0 . 001 Significantly different from pantoprazole sodium for injection .
Parameter Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection DAY 7 Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets DAY 7 Placebo DAY 7 Maximum acid output ( mean ± SD ) 8 . 4 ± 5 . 9 n = 25 6 . 3 ± 6 . 6 n = 22 20 . 9 ± 14 . 5 * n = 24 Basal acid output ( mean ± SD ) 0 . 4 ± 0 . 5 n = 25 0 . 6 ± 0 . 8 n = 22 2 . 8 ± 3 . 0 * n = 23 Study 2 was a single - center , double - blind , parallel - group study to compare the clinical effects of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets .
Patients ( n = 45 , median age 56 years , 21 males and 24 females ) with acute endoscopically proven reflux esophagitis ( Savary / Miller Stage II or III ) with at least 1 of 3 symptoms typical for reflux esophagitis ( acid eructation , heartburn , or pain on swallowing ) were randomized to receive either 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection or 40 mg Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets once daily for 5 days .
After the initial 5 days , all patients were treated with 40 mg oral pantoprazole daily to complete a total of 8 weeks of treatment .
Symptom relief was assessed by calculating the daily mean of the sums of the average scores for these 3 symptoms and the daily mean of the average score for each of the symptoms separately .
There was no significant difference in symptom relief between Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets within the first 5 days .
A repeat endoscopy after 8 weeks of treatment revealed that 20 out of 23 ( 87 % ) patients treated with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection plus Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets and 19 out of 22 ( 86 % ) of the patients treated with Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Tablets had endoscopically proven healing of their esophageal lesions .
Data comparing pantoprazole sodium to other PPIs ( oral or intravenous ) or H2 - receptor antagonists ( oral or intravenous ) are limited , and therefore , are inadequate to support any conclusions regarding comparative efficacy .
14 . 2 Pathological Hypersecretion Associated with Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome Two studies measured the pharmacodynamic effects of 6 day treatment with pantoprazole sodium in patients with ZE Syndrome ( with and without multiple endocrine neoplasia type I ) .
In one of these studies , an initial treatment with pantoprazole sodium in 21 patients ( 29 to 75 years ; 8 female ; 4 Black , 1 Hispanic , 16 White ) reduced acid output to the target level ( 10 mEq / h or less ) and significantly reduced H + concentration and the volume of gastric secretions ; target levels were achieved within 45 minutes of drug administration .
In the other study of 14 patients ( 38 to 67 years ; 5 female ; 2 Black , 12 White ) with ZE Syndrome , treatment was switched from an oral PPI to pantoprazole sodium for injection .
Pantoprazole sodium for injection maintained or improved control of gastric acid secretion .
In both studies , total doses of 160 or 240 mg per day of pantoprazole sodium administered in divided doses , maintained basal acid secretion below target levels in all patients .
Target levels were 10 mEq / h in patients without prior gastric surgery , and 5 mEq / h in all patients with prior gastric acid - reducing surgery .
Once gastric acid secretion was controlled , there was no evidence of tolerance during this 7 day study .
Basal acid secretion was maintained below target levels for at least 24 hours in all patients and through the end of treatment in these studies ( 3 to 7 days ) in all but 1 patient who required a dose adjustment guided by acid output measurements until acid control was achieved .
In both studies , doses were adjusted to the individual patient need , but gastric acid secretion was controlled in greater than 80 % of patients by a starting regimen of 80 mg every 12 hours .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Pantoprazole sodium for injection is supplied in a single - dose vial as a sterile , freeze - dried , white to off - white , porous cake or powder for reconstitution containing 40 mg of pantoprazole .
Pantoprazole sodium for injection is available as follows : 40 mg per vial : Overbagged with 5 Single - dose Vials per bag , NDC 55154 - 8336 - 5 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Adverse Reactions Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider if they experience any signs or symptoms consistent with : • Hypersensitivity and Severe Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Injection Site Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Potential for Exacerbation of Zinc Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Bone Fracture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hepatic Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Hypomagnesemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Drug Interactions Instruct patients to inform their healthcare provider of any other medications they are currently taking , including rilpivirine - containing products [ Contraindications ( 4 ) ] and high dose methotrexate [ Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise a pregnant woman of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
This product ’ s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . auromedics . com .
Distributed by : AuroMedics Pharma LLC 279 Princeton - Hightstown Rd .
E . Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500038 India Distributed by Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 L55235270322 Package / Label Display Panel Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection 40 mg per vial * 5 Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
