DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment is a sterile antimicrobial and anti - inflammatory ointment for ophthalmic use .
Each gram contains : neomycin sulfate equivalent to 3 . 5 mg neomycin base , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , bacitracin zinc equivalent to 400 bacitracin units , hydrocortisone acetate 10 mg ( 1 % ) , in a white petrolatum and mineral oil base .
Bacitracin zinc is the zinc salt of bacitracin , a mixture of related cyclic polypeptides ( mainly bacitracin A ) produced by the growth of an organism of the licheniformis group of Bacillus subtilis var Tracy .
It has a potency of not less than 40 bacitracin units per mg .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C , which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent of not less than 600 μg of neomycin standard per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 , which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Corticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow healing .
Since corticosteroids may inhibit the body ' s defense mechanism against infection , concomitant antimicrobial drugs may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticosteroid and antimicrobials is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of all drugs is administered .
When each type of drug is in the same formulation , compatibility of ingredients is assured and the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
Microbiology : The anti - infective components in neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment are included to provide action against specific organisms susceptible to it .
Neomycin sulfate and polymyxin B sulfate are active in vitro against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci including Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Neo - Polycin ® HC Ophthalmic Ointment is indicated for steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial infection exists .
Ocular corticosteroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of corticosteroid use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical , radiation , or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Microbiology ) .
The particular anti - infective drugs in this product are active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Neo - Polycin ® HC Ophthalmic Ointment is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including : epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment is also contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
Hypersensitivity to the antibiotic component occurs at a higher rate than for other components .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment should never be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in ocular hypertension and / or glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in uncooperative patients .
Corticosteroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
The use of corticosteroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of filtering blebs .
Use of the ocular corticosteroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Topical antibiotics , particularly neomycin sulfate , may cause cutaneous sensitization .
A precise incidence of hypersensitivity reactions ( primarily skin rash ) due to topical antibiotics is not known .
The manifestations of sensitization to topical antibiotics are usually itching , reddening , and edema of the conjunctiva and eyelid .
A sensitization reaction may manifest simply as a failure to heal .
During long - term use of topical antibiotic products , periodic examination for such signs is advisable , and the patient should be told to discontinue the product if they are observed .
Symptoms usually subside quickly on withdrawing the medication .
Applications of products containing these ingredients should be avoided for the patient thereafter ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 8 grams should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored ( see WARNINGS ) .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of topical ophthalmic products in multiple - dose containers which have been inadvertently contaminated by patients , most of whom had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
Allergic cross - reactions may occur which could prevent the use of any or all of the following antibiotics for the treatment of future infections : kanamycin , paromomycin , streptomycin , and possibly gentamicin .
Information for Patients : If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the tip of the tube to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this tube by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or bacitracin .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentrations ( 80 μg / mL ) tested ; however , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Long - term studies in animals ( rats , rabbits , mice ) showed no evidence of carcinogenicity or mutagenicity attributable to oral administration of corticosteroids .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with hydrocortisone acetate have revealed negative results .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
No adverse effects on male or female fertility , litter size , or survival were observed in rabbits given bacitracin zinc 100 gm / ton of diet .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Pregnancy : Teratorgenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids have been found to be teratogenic in rabbits when applied topically at concentrations of 0 . 5 % on days 6 to 18 of gestation and in mice when applied topically at a concentration of 15 % on days 10 to 13 of gestation .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc and hydrocortisone acetate ophthalmic ointment , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety of effectiveness have been observed in between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
The exact incidence is not known .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching , swelling , and conjunctival erythema ( see WARNINGS ) .
More serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported rarely .
The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are : elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Secondary Infection : The development of the secondary ocular infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of a corticosteroid .
The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used ( see WARNINGS ) .
Local irritation on installation has been reported .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply the ointment in the affected eye every 3 or 4 hours , depending on the severity of the condition .
Not more than 8 grams should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
HOW SUPPLIED : Neo - Polycin ® HC Ophthalmic Ointment is supplied in 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) sterile tamper evident tube with ophthalmic tip .
NDC 0574 - 4144 - 35 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Neo - Polycin ® HC is a Registered Trademark of Perrigo Company Manufactured For Perrigo , Minneapolis , MN 55427 Ini1213 R0214 4Y900 RC J1 Rev 12 - 13 A PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Rx Only NDC 0574 - 4144 - 35 STERILE Neo - Polycin ® HC neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates , bacitracin zinc , and hydrocortisone acetate Ophthalmic Ointment USP NET WT 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
