70 % Dextrose Injection , USP Concentrated Dextrose in Water Pharmacy Bulk Package — Not For Direct Infusion .
FOR USE ONLY WITH AUTOMATED COMPOUNDING DEVICES .
NOTE : These solutions are hypertonic – see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
Flexible Plastic Containers Rx only DESCRIPTION 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP ( concentrated dextrose in water ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of Dextrose , USP in water for injection for intravenous administration after appropriate admixture or dilution .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is a sterile dosage form which contains multiple single doses for use only in a pharmacy bulk admixture program .
The content and physical characteristics of the solutions are as follows : Solution Characteristics 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP pH 4 . 0 pH range 3 . 2 - 6 . 5 Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc . )
3532 Specific Gravity 1 . 236 Grams Dextrose / 100 mL 70 kcal / 100 mL [ 1 ] 238 Fill volume ( mL ) 2000 [ 1 ] Caloric value calculated on the basis of 3 . 4 kcal / g of dextrose , hydrous .
The solutions contain no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and are intended only for use as a single - dose injection following admixture or dilution .
This Pharmacy Bulk Package is intended only for use in the preparation of sterile , intravenous nutrient admixtures using automated compounding devices .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
Dextrose Injection , USP is a parenteral fluid and nutrient replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein sparing action .
Dextrose injection undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments , and sodium ( NA + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP ( concentrated dextrose in water ) in Pharmacy Bulk Packages is indicated for use with automated compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures in the pharmacy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A concentrated dextrose solution should not be used when intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage is present nor in the presence of delirium tremens if the patient is already dehydrated .
Dextrose injection without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility that pseudoagglutination of red cells may occur .
WARNINGS Concentrated dextrose in water should be administered only after suitable dilution .
Hypertonic dextrose solutions should be given slowly .
Significant hyperglycemia and possible hyperosmolar syndrome may result from too rapid administration .
The physician should be aware of the symptoms of hyperosmolar syndrome , such as mental confusion and loss of consciousness , especially in patients with chronic uremia and those with known carbohydrate intolerance .
The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
FOR PERIPHERAL VEIN ADMINISTRATION Hypertonic dextrose solutions ( above 5 % concentration ) should be given slowly , preferably through a small bore needle into a large vein , to minimize venous irritation .
FOR CENTRAL VENOUS ADMINISTRATION Concentrated dextrose should be administered via central vein after appropriate admixture or dilution when required .
PRECAUTIONS Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Blood electrolyte monitoring is essential , and fluid and electrolyte imbalances should be corrected .
Essential vitamins and minerals also should be provided as needed .
To minimize hyperglycemia and consequent glycosuria , it is desirable to monitor blood and urine glucose and if necessary , add insulin .
When concentrated dextrose infusion is abruptly withdrawn , it is advisable to follow with the administration of 5 % or 10 % dextrose to avoid rebound hypoglycemia .
Aseptic technique is essential with the use of sterile preparations for compounding nutritional admixtures .
Discard container within 4 hours of entering closure .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle ( or catheter ) is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
Concentrated dextrose solutions should not be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Caution should be exercised with low birth weight premature neonates , who are receiving dextrose concentrations of 10 % or greater , as they are most susceptible to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hyperosmolar syndrome , resulting from excessively rapid administration of concentrated dextrose may cause hypovolemia , dehydration , mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Concentrated Dextrose in Water is administered by slow intravenous infusion ( a ) after admixture with amino acid solutions or ( b ) after dilution with other compatible IV fluids .
Dosage should be adjusted to meet the requirements of each individual patient .
70 % Dextrose Injection , USP in the 2000 mL flexible Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with automated compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures .
Dosages will be in accordance with the recommendation of the prescribing physician .
70 % Dextrose Injection , USP are not intended for direct infusion .
Admixtures should be made by , or under the direction of , a pharmacist using strict aseptic technique under a laminar flow hood .
Compounded admixtures may be stored under refrigeration for up to 24 hours .
Administration of admixtures should be completed within 24 hours after removal from refrigeration .
The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0 . 5 g / kg of body weight / hr .
About 95 % of the dextrose is retained when infused at a rate of 0 . 8 g / kg / hr .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible with the fluid withdrawn from this container .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When compounding admixtures , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Recommended Directions for Use of the Pharmacy Bulk Package Use Aseptic Technique • 1 .
During use , container must be stored , and all manipulations performed , in an appropriate laminar flow hood .
• 2 .
Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• 3 .
Insert piercing pin of transfer set and suspend unit in a laminar flow hood .
Insertion of a piercing pin into the outlet port should be performed only once in a Pharmacy Bulk Package solution .
Once the outlet site has been entered , the withdrawal of container contents should be completed promptly in one continuous operation .
Should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 hours from transfer set pin or implement insertion is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations ; i . e . , discard container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
• 4 .
Sequentially dispense aliquots of 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP into IV containers using appropriate transfer set .
During fluid transfer operations , the Pharmacy Bulk Package should be maintained under the storage conditions recommended in the labeling .
HOW SUPPLIED 70 % Dextrose Injection , USP are supplied as follows : NDC No .
Container Concentration Fill 0409 - 7120 - 07 Flexible Pharmacy Bulk Package 70 % 2000 mL 0990 - 7120 - 07 ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : June 2018 EN - 4656 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 g Bag Label 2000 mL NDC 0990 - 7120 - 07 DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 70 % Pharmacy Bulk Package — Not For Direct Infusion .
MUST BE DILUTED .
EACH 100 mL CONTAINS DEXTROSE , HYDROUS , USP 70 g IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
HYPERTONIC OSMOLARITY 3532 mOsmol / LITER ( calc ) .
pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) SPECIFIC GRAVITY 1 . 236 STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SEE PACKAGE INSERT .
CAUTION : DO NOT USE UNLESS SOLUTION IS CLEAR , CLOSURE IS INTACT , AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
CHECK FOR MINUTE LEAKS BY SQUEEZING FIRMLY .
IF LEAKS ARE FOUND DISCARD CONTAINER AND CONTENTS AS STERILITY MAY BE IMPAIRED .
WITHIN 4 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY DISCARD CONTAINER AND UNUSED CONTENTS .
DATE ENTERED : TIME OF ENTRY : STORE AT 20 TO 25 ° C ( 68 TO 77 ° F ) .
[ SEE USP CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE . ]
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS NO MORE THAN 25 mcg / L OF ALUMINUM .
RX ONLY 70 % 3 V CONTAINS DEHP IM - 4368 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 g Bag Overwrap Label TO OPEN — TEAR AT NOTCH The overwrap is a moisture and oxygen barrier .
Do not remove unit from overwrap until ready for use .
Visually inspect overwrap for tears or holes .
Use unit promptly when pouch is opened .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
See insert .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
COLOR VARIATION IN THE DEXTROSE INJECTION FROM PALE YELLOW TO YELLOW IS NORMAL AND DOES NOT ALTER EFFICACY .
Rx only WR - 0523 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
