Directions : adults and children 3 years and over : allow 1 lozenge to dissolves slowly in the mouth .
Repeat every hour as needed , or as directed by a doctor Children under 3 years : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients : black currant flavor , citric acid , eucalyptus oil , isomalt , natural color , vitamin C . Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each lozenges ) Purpose Menthol 10 mg ............. Antitussive , Cough suppressant , Oral anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves : Cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation occurring with the common cold or inhaled irritants Occasional minor irritation or sore throat Warnings Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
These may be serious .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema cough that occurs with excessive phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor is : cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children Adults and children 3 years and over : allow 1 lozenge to dissolves slowly in the mouth .
Repeat every hour as needed , or as directed by doctor .
Children under 3 years : ask a doctor Purpose Antitussive , Cough suppressant , Oral anesthetic Keep out of reach of children black currant flavor , citric acid , eucalyptus oil , isomalt , natural color , vitamin C Uses Temporarily relieves : Cough due to minor throat and broncial irritation occuring with the common cold or inhaled irritants .
Occasional minor irritation or sore throat Warnings : Sore throar warning : If sore throat is severe , persists more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
These may be serious .
Olbas Lozenges Black Currant Flavor Sugar Free Maximum Strength Fights Coughs Olbas Lozenges Black Currant Flavor Maximum Strength Powerful Vapors Fights Coughs Sugar Free With Vitamin C , Cooling Menthol and Eucalyptus 24 Lozenges Olbas Lozenges Black Currant Flavor Sugar Free Maximum Strength Fights Coughs Sugar Free Olbas Lozenges Maximum Strength Pleasant Black Currant flavor combined with soothing Menthol , Eucalyptus and Vitamin C Fights coughs and provides instant , cool , soothing relief for sore throats Powerful , cooling vapors help your nasal passages feel clearer Suitable for use by those on sugar controlled diets and vegetarians OlbasLozenges Black Currant Flavor Sugar Free Mfg in England by : G . R . Lane Health Products Ltd .
Gloucester Imported and Dist by : Penn Herb Co . , Phila , PA 19154 - 3293 www . Olbas . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
