1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RETISERT is indicated for the treatment of chronic non - infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye .
RETISERT is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of chronic noninfectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • RETISERT is surgically implanted into the posterior segment of the affected eye through a pars plana incision .
( 2 . 1 ) • • RETISERT is designed to release fluocinolone acetonide at a nominal initial rate of 0 . 6 mcg / day , decreasing over the first month to a steady state between 0 . 3 - 0 . 4 mcg / day over approximately 30 months .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Aseptic technique should be maintained at all times prior to and during the surgical implantation procedure .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information RETISERT ( fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant ) 0 . 59 mg is implanted into the posterior segment of the affected eye through a pars plana incision .
The implant contains one tablet of 0 . 59 mg of fluocinolone acetonide .
RETISERT is designed to release fluocinolone acetonide at a nominal initial rate of 0 . 6 mcg / day , decreasing over the first month to a steady state between 0 . 3 - 0 . 4 mcg / day over approximately 30 months .
Following depletion of fluocinolone acetonide as evidenced by recurrence of uveitis , RETISERT may be replaced .
2 . 2 Handling of Implant Caution should be exercised in handling RETISERT in order to avoid damage to the implant , which may result in an increased rate of drug release from the implant .
Thus , RETISERT should be handled only by the suture tab .
Care should be taken during implantation and explantation to avoid sheer forces on the implant that could disengage the silicone cup reservoir ( which contains a fluocinolone acetonide tablet ) from the suture tab .
Aseptic technique should be maintained at all times prior to and during the surgical implantation procedure .
RETISERT should not be resterilized by any method .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 0 . 59 mg fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant .
• • 0 . 59 mg fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Surgical placement of RETISERT is contraindicated in active viral , bacterial , mycobacterial and fungal infections of ocular structures .
( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Viral , Bacterial , Mycobacterial and Fungal Infections of Ocular Structures Surgical placement of RETISERT is contraindicated in active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in active bacterial , mycobacterial or fungal infections of the eye .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Cataract formation : Nearly all phakic patients are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Endophthalmitis : Late onset endophthalmitis has been observed .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Increase in intraocular pressure : Use of corticosteroids may result in elevated IOP and / or glaucoma .
( 5 . 3 ) IOP lowering medications were required in > 75 % of patients ; filtering surgeries were required in > 35 % of patients .
( 6 . 1 ) • • Separation of implant components : Physicians should periodically monitor the integrity of the implant by visual inspection .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Cataract Formation Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Based on clinical trials with RETISERT , during the 3 - year post - implantation period , nearly all phakic eyes are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery .
5 . 2 Endophthalmitis and Surgical Complications Late onset endophthalmitis has been observed .
These events are often related to the integrity of the surgical wound site .
Careful attention to assure tight closure of the scleral wound and the integrity of the overlying conjunctiva at the wound site is important .
Potential complications accompanying intraocular surgery to place RETISERT into the vitreous cavity may include , but are not limited to , the following : cataract formation , choroidal detachment , endophthalmitis , hypotony , increased intraocular pressure , exacerbation of intraocular inflammation , retinal detachment , vitreous hemorrhage , vitreous loss , and wound dehiscence .
Following implantation of RETISERT , nearly all patients will experience an immediate and temporary decrease in visual acuity in the implanted eye which lasts for approximately one to four weeks post - operatively .
5 . 3 Increase in Intraocular Pressure Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in elevated IOP and / or glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Patients must be monitored for elevated IOP .
Based on clinical trials with RETISERT , within 3 - years post - implantation , approximately 77 % of patients will require IOP lowering medications to control intraocular pressure and 37 % of patients will require filtering procedures to control intraocular pressure .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Separation of Implant Components In vitrostability studies show that the strength of the adhesive bond between the silicone cup reservoir and the suture tab is reduced with prolonged hydration , indicating a potential for the separation of these components .
The suture tab composition is a silicone elastomer reinforced with a polyester mesh .
Physicians should periodically monitor the integrity of the implant by visual inspection .
5 . 5 Other Corticosteroid Induced Adverse Reactions RETISERT should be used with caution in patients with a history of a viral , bacterial , mycobacterial or fungal infection of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia and varicella .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections ( bacterial , fungal , and viral ) .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term application of steroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used .
Since resistance to infections is known to be reduced by corticosteroids , simultaneous bilateral implantation should not be carried out , in order to limit the potential for bilateral post - operative infection .
Ocular administration of corticosteroids has also been associated with delayed wound healing and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the sclera .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • Ocular adverse events included procedural complications , and eye pain ( > 50 % ) .
Thirty - five to forty percent of patients reported ocular / conjunctival hyperemia , reduced visual acuity , and conjunctival hemorrhage .
( 6 . 1 ) • • The most common non - ocular event reported was headache ( 33 % ) .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience - Ocular Events The available safety data includes exposure to RETISERT in patients with chronic non - infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment in two multicenter controlled clinical trials .
Patients were randomized to dosage regimens of 0 . 59 mg or 2 . 1 mg implants .
The most frequently reported ocular adverse events were cataract , increased intraocular pressure , procedural complication , and eye pain .
These events occurred in approximately 50 - 90 % of patients .
Cataract includes aggravated cataract , and posterior capsular opacification .
Procedural complications includes post - op complication , post - op wound complication , post - op wound site erythema , and wound dehiscense .
Based on clinical trials with RETISERT , during the 3 - year post - implantation period , nearly all phakic eyes are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery .
IOP lowering medications to lower intraocular pressure were required in approximately 77 % of patients ; filtering surgeries were required to control intraocular pressure in 37 % of patients .
Ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 10 - 40 % of patients in decreasing order of incidence were ocular / conjunctival hyperemia , reduced visual acuity , glaucoma , conjunctival hemorrhage , blurred vision , abnormal sensation in the eye , eye irritation , maculopathy , vitreous floaters , hypotony , pruritus , ptosis , increased tearing , vitreous hemorrhage , dry eye , eyelid edema , macular edema and visual disturbance .
Ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 5 - 9 % of patients in decreasing order of incidence were eye discharge , photophobia , blepharitis , corneal edema , iris adhesions , choroidal detachment , diplopia , eye swelling , retinal detachment , photopsia , retinal hemorrhage and hyphema .
6 . 2 Clinical Trials Experience - Non - Ocular Events The most frequently reported non - ocular adverse event was headache ( 33 % ) .
Other non - ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 5 - 20 % of patients in decreasing order of incidence were nasopharyngitis , arthralgia , sinusitis , dizziness , pyrexia , upper respiratory tract infection , influenza , vomiting , nausea , cough , back pain , limb pain , and rash .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy No adequate animal reproduction studies have been conducted with fluocinolone acetonide .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Fluocinolone acetonide when administered subcutaneously at a dose of 0 . 13 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 , 000 times the daily clinical dose of RETISERT ) , during days 6 to 18 of pregnancy in the rabbit , induced abortion at the end of the third and at the beginning of the fourth gestational week .
When administered subcutaneously to rats and rabbits during gestation at a maternal toxic dose of 50 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 4 , 000 times the clinical dose of RETISERT ) , fluocinolone acetonide caused abortions and malformations in a few surviving fetuses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
RETISERT should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ocular administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemic steroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when RETISERT is implanted in a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION RETISERT ® ( fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant ) 0 . 59 mg is a sterile implant designed to release fluocinolone acetonide locally to the posterior segment of the eye at a nominal initial rate of 0 . 6 mcg / day , decreasing over the first month to a steady state between 0 . 3 - 0 . 4 mcg / day over approximately 30 months .
The drug substance is the synthetic corticosteroid fluocinolone acetonide , represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methyl - ethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] , ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - .
Fluocinolone acetonide is a white crystalline powder , insoluble in water , and soluble in methanol .
It has a melting point of 265 - 266ºC .
Each RETISERT consists of a tablet containing 0 . 59 mg of the active ingredient , Fluocinolone Acetonide , USP , and the following inactives : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and polyvinyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Corticosteroids are capable of producing a rise in intraocular pressure .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a subset of patients who received the intravitreal implant , and had blood samples taken at various times ( weeks 1 , 4 and 34 ) after implantation , plasma levels of fluocinolone acetonide were below the limit of detection ( 0 . 2 ng / mL ) at all times .
Aqueous and vitreous humor samples were assayed for fluocinolone acetonide in a further subset of patients .
While detectable concentrations of fluocinolone acetonide were seen throughout the observation interval ( up to 34 months ) , the concentrations were highly variable , ranging from below the limit of detection ( 0 . 2 ng / mL ) to 589 ng / mL .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed on RETISERT to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of fluocinolone acetonide .
Fluocinolone acetonide was not genotoxic in vitroin the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma TK assay , or in vivoin the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , double - masked , multicenter controlled clinical trials , 224 patients with chronic ( a one year or greater history ) non - infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of one or both eyes were randomized to receive a 0 . 59 mg RETISERT .
The primary efficacy endpoint in both trials was the rate of recurrence of uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the study eye in the 34 week pre - implantation period compared to the rate of recurrence in the 34 week post - implantation period .
Uveitis recurrence rates at 1 , 2 , and 3 year post - implantation were also compared to the 34 week pre - implantation period .
Detailed results are shown in Table 1 below : Table 1 : Uveitis Recurrence RatesTIME POINT STUDY 1 STUDY 2 N = 108 N = 116 Uveitis Recurrence Rates [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] N ( % ) 34 Weeks Pre - implantation 58 ( 53 . 7 ) 46 ( 39 . 7 ) 34 Weeks Post - implantation 2 ( 1 . 8 ) 15 ( 12 . 9 ) 1 Year Post - implantation 4 ( 3 . 7 ) 15 ( 12 . 9 ) 2 Years Post - implantation 11 ( 10 . 2 ) 16 ( 13 . 8 ) 3 Years Post - implantation 22 ( 20 . 4 ) 20 ( 17 . 2 ) 3 Years [ 3 ] Post - implantation 33 ( 30 . 6 ) 28 ( 24 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Recurrence of uveitis for all post - implantation time points was compared to the 34 weeks pre - implantation time point .
[ 2 ] p - value < 0 . 01 from McNemar ’ s χ2 test .
[ 3 ] Results presented include imputed recurrences .
Recurrences were imputed when a subject was not seen within 10 weeks of their final scheduled visit .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The implant consists of a tablet encased in a silicone elastomer cup containing a release orifice and a polyvinyl alcohol membrane positioned between the tablet and the orifice .
The silicone elastomer cup assembly is attached to a silicone elastomer suture tab with silicone adhesive .
Each RETISERT is approximately 3 mm x 2 mm x 5 mm .
Each implant is stored in a clear polycarbonate case within a foil pouch within a Tyvek peelable overwrap .
Each packaged implant is provided in a carton which includes the package insert .
NDC 24208 - 416 - 01 0 . 59 mg 1 count Storage : Store in the original container at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised to have ophthalmologic follow - up examinations of both eyes at appropriate intervals following implantation of RETISERT .
As with any surgical procedure , there is risk involved .
Potential complications accompanying intraocular surgery to place RETISERT into the vitreous cavity may include , but are not limited to , the following : cataract formation , choroidal detachment , temporary decreased visual acuity , endophthalmitis , hypotony , increased intraocular pressure , exacerbation of intraocular inflammation , retinal detachment , vitreous hemorrhage , vitreous loss , and wound dehiscence .
Following implantation of RETISERT , nearly all patients will experience an immediate and temporary decrease in visual acuity in the implanted eye which lasts for approximately one to four weeks post - operatively .
Based on clinical trials with RETISERT , within 3 years post - implantation , approximately 77 % of patients will require IOP lowering medications to control intraocular pressure and 37 % of patients will require filtering procedures to control intraocular pressure [ seeAdverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Based on clinical trials with RETISERT , during the 3 - year post - implantation period , nearly all phakic eyes are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch + Lomb Ireland Limited Waterford , Ireland Retisert is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2021 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9028010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 24208 - 416 - 01 Rx only Retisert ® ( fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant ) 0 . 59 mg STERILE FOR INTRAVITREAL IMPLANTATION ONLY Contents : One sterile Retisert ® ( fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant ) 0 . 59 mg Content sterile in unopened , undamaged package .
BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ]
