Active ingredient Hydrogen peroxide 1 . 5 % w / v Purpose Oral debriding agent / Oral wound cleanser Uses • aids in the removal of phlgem , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth • for temporary use in cleansing minor wounds or minor gum inflammation resulting from minor dental procedures , dentures , orthodontic appliances , acidental injury , or other irritations of the mouth and gums • for temporary use to cleanse canker sores • assists in the removal of foreign material from minor oral wounds Warnings Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ; if irritation , pain , or redenss persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash or fever develops , see your dentist or doctor promptly When using this product do not swallow Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : rinse two teaspoons ( 10 mL ) around the mouth for at least 1 minute , then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or pysicial • children under 12 should be supervised in the use of the product • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information store at controlled room temperature 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , propylene glycol , poloxamer 338 , polysorbate 20 , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION Walgreens Pharmacist Recommended Our Pharmacists recomment the Walgressn brand .
We invite you to compare to national brands .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Colgate - Palmolive Company , owner of the registered trademarks Colgate and Peroxyl Questions or Commnets ?
1 - 800 - 925 - 4733 DIST .
BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED walgreens . com 1 - 800 - 925 - 4733 2021 WALGREEN CO .
MADE IN THE U . S . A . WITH U . S . AND FOREIGN COMPONENTS Principal Panel Display Walgreens Compare to active ingredient in Colgate Peroxyl Mouth Sore Rinse Mouth Rinse HYDROGEN PEROXIDE / ORAL DEBRIDING AGENT Peroxide Alcohol Free • cleans & helps relieve minor mouth & gum irritation • Oral wound cleanser • helps reduce bacteria to promte better oral health 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) Mint Flavor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
