WARNING Bone marrow hypoplasia including aplastic anemia and death has been reported following topical application of chloramphenicol .
Chloramphenicol should not be used when less potentially dangerous agents would be expected to provide effective treatment .
Description Each gram of Chloromycetin Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % contains 10 mg of chloramphenicol in a special base of liquid petrolatum and polyethylene .
It contains no preservatives .
Sterile ointment .
The chemical names for chloramphenicol are : ( 1 ) Acetamide , 2 , 2 - dichloro - N - [ 2 - hydroxy - 1 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 2 - ( 4 - nitrophenyl ) ethyl ] - , and ( 2 ) D - threo - ( — ) - 2 , 2 - Dichloro - N - [ β - hydroxy - α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - p - nitrophenethyl ] acetamide .
Chloramphenicol has the following empirical and structural formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Chloramphenicol is a broad - spectrum antibiotic originally isolated from Streptomyces venezuelae .
It is primarily bacteriostatic and acts by inhibition of protein synthesis by interfering with the transfer of activated amino acids from soluble RNA to ribosomes .
It has been noted that chloramphenicol is found in measurable amounts in the aqueous humor following local application to the eye .
Development of resistance to chloramphenicol can be regarded as minimal for staphylococci and many other species of bacteria .
Indications and Usage Chloramphenicol should be used only in those serious infections for which less potentially dangerous drugs are ineffective or contraindicated .
Bacteriological studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their sensitivity to chloramphenicol ( see Boxed Warning ) .
Chloromycetin Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % ( Chloramphenicol Ophthalmic Ointment , USP ) is indicated for the treatment of surface ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and / or cornea caused by chloramphenicol - susceptible organisms .
The particular antiinfective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus , including Streptococcus pneumoniae Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella / Enterobacter species Moraxella lucunata ( Morax - Axenfeld bacillus ) Neisseria species This product does not provide adequate coverage against : Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia marcescens Contraindications This product is contraindicated in persons sensitive to any of its components .
Warnings SEE BOXED WARNING Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Precautions The prolonged use of antibiotics may occasionally result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If new infections appear during medication , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate measures should be taken .
In all serious infections the topical use of chloramphenicol should be supplemented by appropriate systemic medication .
Adverse Reactions Blood dyscrasias have been reported in association with the use of chloramphenicol ( see WARNINGS ) .
Allergic or inflammatory reactions due to individual hypersensitivity and occasional burning or stinging may occur with the use of Chloromycetin Ophthalmic Ointment .
Dosage and Administration A small amount of ointment placed in the lower conjunctival sac every three hours , or more frequently if deemed advisable by the prescribing physician .
Administration should be continued day and night the first 48 hours , after which the interval between applications may be increased .
Treatment should be continued for at least 48 hours after the eye appears normal .
How Supplied N 0071 – 3070 – 07 Chloromycetin Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % ( Chloramphenicol Ophthalmic Ointment , USP ) is supplied , sterile , in ophthalmic ointment tubes of 3 . 5 grams .
Chloromycetin , brand of chloramphenicol .
Reg US Pat Off Caution — Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription . March 1997 © 1997 , Warner - Lambert Co .
PARKE - DAVIS Div of Warner - Lambert Co / Morris Plains , NJ 07950 USA
