1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe scalp psoriasis in subjects 18 years of age and older .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Do not use on the face , axillae or groin .
( 1 . 2 ) • Avoid any contact with the eyes and lips .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Indication Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , is a super - high potent topical corticosteroid formulation indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe forms of scalp psoriasis in subjects 18 years of age and older .
Treatment should be limited to 4 consecutive weeks .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 g ( 50 mL or 1 . 75 fl .
oz . )
per week .
Patients should be instructed to use clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , for the minimum time period necessary to achieve the desired results [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Use in patients younger than 18 years of age is not recommended due to numerically high rates of hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , should not be used on the face , groin or axillae .
Avoid any contact of the drug product with the eyes and lips .
In case of contact , rinse thoroughly with water all parts of the body that came in contact with the shampoo .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % is for topical use only , and not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , should be applied onto dry ( not wet ) scalp once a day in a thin film to the affected areas only , and left in place for 15 minutes before lathering and rinsing .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 g ( 50 mL or 1 . 75 fl .
oz . )
per week .
Move the hair away from the scalp so that one of the affected areas is exposed .
Position the bottle over the lesion .
Apply a small amount of the shampoo directly onto the lesion , letting the product naturally flow from the bottle ( gently squeeze the bottle ) , avoiding any contact of the product with the facial skin , eyes or lips .
In case of contact , rinse thoroughly with water .
Spread the product so that the entire lesion is covered with a thin uniform film .
Massage gently into the lesion and repeat for additional lesion ( s ) .
Wash your hands after applying clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % .
Leave the shampoo in place for 15 minutes , then add water , lather and rinse thoroughly all parts of the scalp and body that came in contact with the shampoo ( e . g . , hands , face , neck and shoulders ) .
Avoid contact with eyes and lips .
Minimize contact to non - affected areas of the body .
Although no additional shampoo is necessary to cleanse your hair , you may use a non - medicated shampoo if desired .
Treatment should be limited to 4 consecutive weeks .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If complete disease control is not achieved after 4 weeks of treatment with clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , treatment with a less potent topical steroid may be substituted .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , should not be used with occlusive dressings ( shower cap or bathing cap ) unless directed by a physician .
• Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % should be applied onto dry ( not wet ) scalp once a day in a thin film to the affected areas only , and left in place for 15 minutes before lathering and rinsing .
Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % contains a super - high potent topical corticosteroid ; therefore treatment should be limited to 4 weeks .
( 2 ) • As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • Total dosage should not exceed 50 g ( 50 mL or 1 . 75 fl .
oz . )
per week .
( 2 ) • Clobetasol propionate shampoo should not be used with a shower cap or bathing cap .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Shampoo , 0 . 05 % , w / w .
Each gram of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP in a translucent , colorless to pale yellow viscous liquid .
Shampoo , 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis at the lowest doses tested .
( 5 . 1 ) Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) If irritation develops in the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate shampoo should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
( 5 . 3 ) Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate .
These reactions include : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae and miliaria .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
The effect of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % on HPA axis suppression was evaluated in one trial in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age .
In this trial , 5 of 12 evaluable subjects developed suppression of their HPA axis following 4 weeks of treatment with clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % applied once daily for 15 minutes to a dry scalp before lathering and rinsing .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Allergic Contact Dermatitis If irritation develops , clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed with patch testing .
5 . 3 Concomitant Skin Infections In the presence of dermatologic infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
5 . 4 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Clobetasol propionate is not recommended in patients with acne vulgaris , rosacea or perioral dermatitis .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are burning / stinging , pruritus , edema , folliculitis , acne , dry skin , irritant dermatitis , alopecia , urticaria , skin atrophy and telangiectasia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials with clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , the following adverse reactions have been reported : headache , burning / stinging , pruritus , edema , folliculitis , acne , dry skin , irritant dermatitis , alopecia , urticaria , skin atrophy and telangiectasia .
Table 1 summarizes selected adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects in the Phase 2 and 3 studies for scalp psoriasis .
Table 1 : Summary of Selected Adverse Reactions ≥ 1 % by Body SystemBody System Clobetasol Propionate Shampoo , 0 . 05 % Vehicle Shampoo , 0 . 05 % N = 558 N = 127 Skin and Appendages 49 ( 8 . 8 % ) 28 ( 22 . 0 % ) Discomfort Skin 26 ( 4 . 7 % ) 16 ( 12 . 6 % ) Pruritus 3 ( 0 . 5 % ) 9 ( 7 . 1 % ) Body As A Whole 33 ( 5 . 9 % ) 12 ( 9 . 4 % ) Headache 10 ( 1 . 8 % ) 1 ( 0 . 8 % ) Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % .
• Endocrine disorders : Cushing ’ s syndrome , Adrenal suppression • Eye : Eye pain , Vision blurred , Eye irritation • CNS : Dizziness • GI : Nausea • Skin : Erythema , Skin exfoliation , Rash , Skin irritation , Hair color changes , Allergic contact dermatitis , Pain of skin , Skin tightness • Other : Psoriasis ( aggravation ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and the mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
The effect of clobetasol propionate on pregnancy outcome and development of offspring was studied in the rat .
Clobetasol propionate was administered subcutaneously to female rats twice daily ( 0 , 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 mcg / kg / day ) from day 7 of presumed gestation through day 25 of lactation or day 24 presumed gestation for those rats that did not deliver a litter .
The maternal no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for clobetasol propionate was less than 12 . 5 mcg / kg / day due to reduced body weight gain and feed consumption during the gestation period .
The reproductive NOEL in the dams was 25 mcg / kg / day ( ratio of animal dose to proposed human dose of 0 . 07 on a mg / m2 / day basis ) based on prolonged delivery at a higher dose level .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for viability and growth in the offspring was 12 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( ratio of animal dose to proposed human dose of 0 . 03 on a mg / m2 / day basis ) based on incidence of stillbirths , reductions in pup body weights on days 1 and 7 of lactation , increased pup mortality , increases in the incidence of umbilical hernia , and increases in the incidence of pups with cysts on the kidney at higher dose levels during the preweaning period .
The weights of the epididymides and testes were significantly reduced at higher dosages .
Despite these changes , there were no effects on the mating and fertility of the offspring .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , in patients under 18 years old is not recommended due to potential for HPA axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The effect of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , on HPA axis suppression was evaluated in one trial in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis with involvement of at least 25 % of the scalp .
In this trial , 5 of 12 evaluable subjects developed suppression of their HPA axis following 4 weeks of treatment with clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , applied once daily for 15 minutes to a dry scalp before lathering and rinsing .
Only 1 of the 5 subjects who had suppression was tested for recovery of HPA axis , and this subject recovered after 2 weeks .
No studies have been performed in patients under the age of 12 .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
Therefore , use is not recommended in patients under the age of 18 .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be made with caution , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied , clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , contains clobetasol propionate , a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid , for topical use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
The chemical name of clobetasol propionate , USP is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - propionate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate , USP has a molecular weight of 466 . 97 ( CAS Registry Number 25122 - 46 - 7 ) .
The molecular formula is C25H32CIFO5 .
Clobetasol propionate , USP is a white to practically white crystalline , odorless powder insoluble in water .
Each gram of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP in a translucent , colorless to pale yellow viscous liquid shampoo base consisting of alcohol ( 12 . 38 % ) , citric acid monohydrate , coco - betaine , polyquaternium 10 , purified water , sodium citrate and sodium laureth sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Like other topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , is in the super - high range of potency as demonstrated in vasoconstrictor studies in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression In studies evaluating the potential for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , use of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , resulted in demonstrable HPA axis suppression in 5 out of 12 ( 42 % ) adolescent subjects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and occlusion .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
There are no human data regarding the distribution of corticosteroids to body organs following topical application .
Nevertheless , once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through metabolic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
They are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
In addition , some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Clobetasol propionate was not carcinogenic to rats when topically applied for 2 years at concentrations up to 0 . 005 % which corresponded to doses up to 11 mcg / kg / day ( ratio of animal dose to proposed human dose of 0 . 03 on a mg / m2 / day basis ) .
Clobetasol propionate at concentrations up to 0 . 001 % did not increase the rate of formation of ultra violet light - induced skin tumors when topically applied to hairless mice 5 days per week for a period of 40 weeks .
Clobetasol propionate was negative in the in vitro mammalian chromosomal aberration test and in the in vivo mammalian erythrocyte micronucleus test .
The effect of subcutaneously administered clobetasol propionate on fertility and general reproductive toxicity was studied in rats at doses of 0 , 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 mcg / kg / day .
Males were treated beginning 70 days before mating and females beginning 15 days before mating through day 7 of gestation .
A dosage level of less than 12 . 5 mcg / kg / day clobetasol propionate was considered to be the no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for paternal and maternal general toxicity based on decreased weight gain and for male reproductive toxicity based on increased weights of the seminal vesicles .
The female reproductive NOEL was 12 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( ratio of animal dose to proposed human dose of 0 . 03 on a mg / m2 / day basis ) based on reduction in the numbers of estrous cycles during the pre - cohabitation period and an increase in the number of nonviable embryos at higher doses .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , have been evaluated in two clinical trials involving 290 subjects with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis .
In both trials , subjects were treated with either clobetasol propionate shampoo or the corresponding vehicle applied once daily for 15 minutes before lathering and rinsing for a period of 4 weeks .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 2 below .
Table 2 : Efficacy Results Clobetasol Propionate Shampoo , 0 . 05 % N ( % ) Shampoo Vehicle n ( % ) Study A Study B Study A Study B 1 Success rate defined as the proportion of subjects with a - 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( minimal ) on a 0 to 5 point physician ' s Global Severity Scale for scalp psoriasis .
2 At four ( 4 ) weeks or last observation recorded for a subject during the treatment period ( baseline if no post - baseline data were available ) .
3 Subjects with 0 ( clear ) on a 0 to 3 point scalp psoriasis parameter scale .
Total Number of Subjects 95 99 47 49 Success Rate1 at Endpoint2 40 ( 42 . 1 % ) 28 ( 28 . 3 % ) 1 ( 2 . 1 % ) 5 ( 10 . 2 % ) Subjects with Scalp Psoriasis Parameter Clear ( None ) at Endpoint Erythema3 17 ( 17 . 9 % ) 12 ( 12 . 1 % ) 3 ( 6 . 4 % ) 1 ( 2 . 0 % ) Scaling3 21 ( 22 . 1 % ) 15 ( 15 . 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 4 . 1 % ) Plaque Thickening3 35 ( 36 . 8 % ) 34 ( 34 . 3 % ) 5 ( 10 . 6 % ) 5 ( 10 . 2 % ) Clinical studies of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , did not include sufficient numbers of non - Caucasian subjects to determine whether they respond differently than Caucasian subjects with regards to efficacy and safety .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clobetasol Propionate Shampoo , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 4 fl .
oz .
( 118 mL ) bottles .
NDC 0472 - 0403 - 94 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Information for Patients Inform the patient using topical corticosteroids to adhere to following instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
• Clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , is for external use only .
It should not be used on the face , underarms or groin areas .
Avoid contact with the eyes and lips .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The scalp area should not be covered while the medication is on the scalp ( e . g . , shower cap , bathing cap ) so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local or systemic adverse reactions to their physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , contact the physician .
• Patients should wash their hands after applying the medication .
• Patients should inform their physician ( s ) that they are using clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % , if surgery is contemplated .
• Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % .
• Patients should not use more than 50 g ( 50 mL or 1 . 75 fl .
oz . )
per week of clobetasol propionate shampoo , 0 . 05 % .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 8 / 2018 GW7150 PATIENT INFORMATION CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE SHAMPOO 0 . 05 % Rx Only Important : For use on the scalp only .
Do not get clobetasol propionate shampoo near or in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
Read the Patient Information that comes with clobetasol propionate shampoo before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
• Clobetasol propionate shampoo is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat adults with moderate to severe forms of scalp psoriasis .
Clobetasol propionate shampoo is for use on the scalp only ( topical ) .
• Clobetasol propionate shampoo should be used for the shortest amount of time needed to treat your scalp psoriasis .
• You should not use clobetasol propionate shampoo for longer than 4 weeks in a row .
• You should not use more than 50 mL ( 1 . 75 fluid ounces ) of clobetasol propionate shampoo in one week .
You should not use clobetasol propionate shampoo : • on your face , underarms ( armpits ) or groin areas .
Avoid getting clobetasol propionate shampoo in your eyes or on your lips . Clobetasol propionate shampoo should not be used in children under 18 years of age .
What should I tell my doctor before using clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
Before you use clobetasol propionate shampoo , tell your doctor if you : • have a scalp infection .
You may need medicine to treat the scalp infection before you use clobetasol propionate shampoo .
• have any open sores or cuts on your scalp • plan to have surgery • have acne vulgaris , rosacea , or a rash around your mouth ( perioral dermatitis ) • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if clobetasol propionate can harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if clobetasol propionate passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use clobetasol propionate shampoo .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
You should not use other products that contain corticosteroids while you are using clobetasol propionate shampoo .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist if you get a new medicine .
How should I use clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
• Use clobetasol propionate shampoo exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Your doctor should tell you how much clobetasol propionate shampoo to use and where to apply it .
• Clobetasol propionate shampoo is for use on your scalp only ( topical ) .
• Apply clobetasol propionate shampoo on affected areas of your scalp one time each day .
• Use only enough clobetasol propionate shampoo to cover the affected areas of your scalp .
• Do not use clobetasol propionate shampoo on your face , groin , or underarms .
Avoid getting clobetasol propionate shampoo in your eyes or on your lips .
• Do not wet your hair before using clobetasol propionate shampoo .
• If clobetasol propionate shampoo gets on any part of your body other than your scalp , rinse the area well with water .
• You should not bandage or cover your head with a shower cap , bathing cap , or a towel , while clobetasol propionate shampoo is on your scalp , unless your doctor tells you to .
• Tell your doctor if your scalp condition is not getting better after 4 weeks of using clobetasol propionate shampoo .
You should not use clobetasol propionate shampoo for more than 4 weeks unless your doctor tells you to .
See the “ Instructions for Use ” at the end of the Patient Information for detailed information about the right way to use clobetasol propionate shampoo .
What are the possible side effects of clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
Clobetasol propionate shampoo can pass through your skin .
Too much clobetasol propionate shampoo passing through your skin can cause your adrenal glands to stop working .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check how well your adrenal glands are working .
The most common side effects of clobetasol propionate shampoo include : • burning or stinging at the site of application • itching • swelling • inflamed hair follicle • acne • dry , itchy and reddened skin • hair loss • rash or hives • thinning of the skin • widening of small blood vessels in the skin If you go to another doctor for illness , injury or surgery , tell that doctor that you are using clobetasol propionate shampoo .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of clobetasol propionate shampoo .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 .
How should I store clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
• Store clobetasol propionate shampoo at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the clobetasol propionate shampoo bottle tightly closed .
Keep clobetasol propionate shampoo and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about clobetasol propionate shampoo Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use clobetasol propionate shampoo for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clobetasol propionate shampoo to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about clobetasol propionate shampoo .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about clobetasol propionate shampoo that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in clobetasol propionate shampoo ?
Active ingredient : clobetasol propionate , USP Inactive ingredients ( shampoo base ) : alcohol ( 12 . 38 % ) , citric acid , coco - betaine , polyquaternium 10 , purified water , and sodium laureth sulfate .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE SHAMPOO 0 . 05 % Rx Only Important : For use on the scalp only .
Do not get clobetasol propionate shampoo near or in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
Read the Instructions for Use that comes with clobetasol propionate shampoo before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
How to apply clobetasol propionate shampoo to your scalp : Your hair should be dry when you apply clobetasol propionate shampoo to your scalp .
Do not get clobetasol propionate shampoo on your face , in your eyes or on your lips .
If clobetasol propionate shampoo does get on these areas , rinse well with water .
Step 1 : To apply clobetasol propionate shampoo to your scalp , part your hair at the area where it is to be applied .
Step 2 : Hold the bottle of clobetasol propionate shampoo over the affected area .
Gently squeeze the bottle and apply a small amount of shampoo to the affected area .
Step 3 : Gently rub clobetasol propionate shampoo into the affected area so that only the affected area is covered with a thin , even layer of clobetasol propionate shampoo .
Step 4 : Repeat Steps 1 through 3 to apply clobetasol propionate shampoo to other affected areas on your scalp as instructed by your doctor .
Step 5 : Wash your hands after applying clobetasol propionate shampoo .
Step 6 : Leave clobetasol propionate shampoo on your scalp for 15 minutes .
You should not bandage or cover your head with a shower cap , bathing cap , or a towel while clobetasol propionate shampoo is on your scalp , unless your doctor tells you to .
Step 7 : After 15 minutes have passed , wet your hair with water .
Lather and rinse your hair and scalp completely .
Rinse any other parts of your body that come into contact with clobetasol propionate shampoo , such as your hands , face , neck and shoulders .
No other shampoo is needed , but you may wash your hair with a non - medicated shampoo after using clobetasol propionate shampoo .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 8 / 2018 GW7150 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0472 - 0403 - 94 Clobetasol Propionate Shampoo 0 . 05 % Contains 12 . 38 % Alcohol .
For External Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use This package is not child resistant .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Rx Only 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
