Active ingredients Drug Facts Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 2 % Zinc acetate 0 . 1 % Purpose Topical analgesic Skin protectant Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses For the temporary relief from pain and itching associated with : • insect bites • sunburn • minor skin irritations • minor burns • scrapes Dries the oozing and weeping of • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac Warnings For external use only Do not use : • on large areas of the body • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one taken by mouth Ask a doctor before use • on chicken pox • on measles When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • symptoms persist for more than 7 day or clear up and occur again within a few days Directions • do not use more than directed • adults and children 2 years of age and older , apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • use daily for 4 weeks Other information • store at temperature between 58 ° - 77 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , PEG - 2 stearate , PEG - 20 stearate , propylene gylcol , propylparaben , purified water Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Extra Strength Anti - Itch Cream Topical Analgesic and Skin Protectant Histamine Blocker Relieves itching from * Poison ivy * Poison sumac * Sunburn * Insect bites NET WT .
1 . 25 OZ .
( 35 g ) DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS delivers outstanding quality in healthcare products , at truly amazing prices .
We employ the highest standard when searching the world to bring the best value to your doorstep .
Use our products confidently , knowing that attention and care has gone into every item .
That ' s smart wellness !
Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 48084 U . S . A . Code No .
MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
