NDC : 51655 - 0162 - 10 MFG : 65162 - 553 - 10 Metaxalone , USP 800 mg 10 tablets Rx Only Dosage : See Package insert Store below 77 degrees F . ( 25 degrees C ) Store in a tight , light resistant container ( See USP ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Each tablet contains Metaxalone , USP ... 800 mg Mfg . By Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co .
Pvt . Ltd Ahmedabad , India 38220 Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 Lot # : Exp .
Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 51655 - 162 - 20 MFG : 65162 - 553 - 10 Metaxalone Tablets , USP 800 mg 20 Tablets Rx only Dosage : See package insert Store below 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , light resistant container ( See USP ) Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co .
Pvt . Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India 38220 Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 Lot # : Exp .
Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings WARNINGS Metaxalone may enhance the effects of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
PRECAUTIONS Metaxalone should be administered with great care to patients with pre - existing liver damage .
Serial liver function studies should be performed in these patients .
False - positive Benedict ’ s tests , due to an unknown reducing substance , have been noted .
A glucose - specific test will differentiate findings .
Taking metaxalone with food may enhance general CNS depression ; elderly patients may be especially susceptible to this CNS effect .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients section ) .
Information for Patients Metaxalone may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , especially when used with alcohol or other CNS depressants .
Drug Interactions The sedative effects of metaxalone and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) may be additive .
Therefore , caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The carcinogenic potential of metaxalone has not been determined .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies in rats have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to metaxalone .
Post marketing experience has not revealed evidence of fetal injury , but such experience cannot exclude the possibility of infrequent or subtle damage to the human fetus .
Safe use of metaxalone has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , metaxalone tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless , in the judgement of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is secreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children 12 years of age and below have not been established .
Adverse Reactions ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent reactions to metaxalone include : CNS : drowsiness , dizziness , headache , and nervousness or “ irritability ” ; Digestive : nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset .
Other adverse reactions are : Immune System : hypersensitivity reaction , rash with or without pruritus ; Hematologic : leukopenia ; hemolytic anemia ; Hepatobiliary : jaundice .
Though rare , anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with metaxalone .
Dosage and Administration DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults and children over 12 years of age is one 800 mg tablet three to four times a day .
Online drug information link For more information regarding this drug please see the manufacturer ' s information online at : Permanent Link : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 3aa9dba9 - 29b0 - 4520 - a0f7 - 66d19d52c6bc
