DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection contains : Hydrous Dextrose USP 5 g ; Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 6 g Sodium Lactate 0 . 31 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP 0 . 02 g Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 4 . 6 ( 4 . 0 – 6 . 0 ) Calories per liter : 170 Calculated Osmolarity : 530 mOsmol / liter , hypertonic Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 130 ; Potassium 4 ; Calcium 3 ; Chloride 112 ; Lactate ( CH3CH ( OH ) COO − ) 28 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection is sterile , nonpyrogenic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
This product is intended for intravenous administration .
The formulas of the active ingredients are : Ingredients Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Sodium Lactate CH3CH ( OH ) COONa 112 . 06 Potassium Chloride USP KCl 74 . 55 Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP CaCl2 • 2H2O 147 . 02 Hydrous Dextrose USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] 198 . 17 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Addition of medication should be accomplished using complete aseptic technique .
The closure system has two ports ; the one for the administration set has a tamper evident plastic protector and the other is a medication addition site .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection provides electrolytes and calories , and is a source of water for hydration .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
This solution also contains lactate which produces a metabolic alkalinizing effect .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Potassium , the principal cation of intracellular fluid , participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Calcium , an important cation , provides the framework of bones and teeth in the form of calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate .
In the ionized form , calcium is essential for the functional mechanism of the clotting of blood , normal cardiac function , and regulation of neuromuscular irritability .
Sodium lactate is a racemic salt containing both the levo form , which is oxidized by the liver to bicarbonate , and the dextro form , which is converted to glycogen .
Lactate is slowly metabolized to carbon dioxide and water , accepting one hydrogen ion and resulting in the formation of bicarbonate for the lactate consumed .
These reactions depend on oxidative cellular activity .
Dextrose provides a source of calories .
Dextrose is readily metabolized , may decrease losses of body protein and nitrogen , promotes glycogen deposition and decreases or prevents ketosis if sufficient doses are provided .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of electrolytes , calories and water for hydration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection is contraindicated in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone , even if separate infusion lines are used , due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone - calcium salt precipitation in the neonate ’ s bloodstream [ see Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
This solution is contraindicated where the administration of sodium , potassium , calcium , chloride or lactate could be clinically detrimental .
Lactate administration is contraindicated in severe metabolic acidosis or alkalosis , and in severe liver disease or anoxic states which affect lactate metabolism .
Solutions containing dextrose may be contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to corn products .
WARNINGS Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions , such as 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , in the same intravenous administration line .
Do not administer ceftriaxone simultaneously with 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection via a Y - site .
Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used .
5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection is contraindicated in neonates receiving ceftriaxone .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
[ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
Solutions containing lactate are not for use in the treatment of lactic acidosis .
Solutions containing lactate should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis , and in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
Solutions containing potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure , and in conditions in which potassium ions retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
PRECAUTIONS General This solution should be used with care in patients with hypervolemia , renal insufficiency , urinary tract obstruction , or impending or frank cardiac decompensation .
Extraordinary electrolytes losses such as may occur during protracted nasogastric suction , vomiting , diarrhea or gastrointestinal fistula drainage may necessitate additional electrolyte supplementation .
Additional essential electrolytes , minerals and vitamins should be supplied as needed .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Care should be exercised in administering solutions containing sodium or potassium to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
The osmolarity of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection is 530 mOsmol / liter ( calc ) .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions may cause venous irritation , including phlebitis .
Solutions containing calcium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly when accompanied by renal disease .
Parenteral calcium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations .
Solutions containing lactate should be used with caution .
Excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
The conversion of lactate to bicarbonate is markedly delayed in the presence of tissue anoxia and reduced capacity of the liver to metabolize lactate .
This may occur under conditions such as metabolic acidosis associated with circulatory insufficiency , extracorporeal circulation , hypothermia , glycogen storage disease , liver dysfunction , respiratory alkalosis , shock or cardiac decompensation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus , or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Do not connect flexible plastic containers in series in order to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
If administration is not controlled by a pumping device , refrain from applying excessive pressure ( greater than 300 mmHg ) causing distortion to the container such as wringing or twisting .
Such handling could result in breakage of the container .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require tailoring of the electrolyte pattern , in this or an alternative solution .
Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions , such as 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , in the same intravenous administration line .
Do not administer ceftriaxone simultaneously with 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Warnings , Dosage and Administration ] .
Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Pediatric Use , Dosage and Administration ] .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection .
It is also not known whether 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery The effects of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection on the duration of labor or delivery , on the possibility that forceps delivery or other intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary , and on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child are unknown .
As reported in the literature , 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection has been administered during labor and delivery .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used .
5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection is contraindicated in neonates receiving ceftriaxone [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions ] .
Safety and effectiveness of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection in pediatric patients has not been established by adequate and well - controlled studies .
However , as referenced in the medical literature , potassium chloride injection has been used to treat pediatric patients with potassium deficiency when oral replacement therapy is not feasible .
For patients receiving potassium supplement at greater than maintenance rates , frequent monitoring of serum potassium levels and serial EKGs are recommended .
Dextrose is safe and effective for the stated indications in pediatric patients ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
As reported in the literature , the dosage selection and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In neonates or in very small infants even small volumes of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Care must be exercised in treatment of neonates , especially pre - term neonates , whose renal function may be immature and whose ability to excrete fluid and solute loads may be limited .
Fluid intake , urine output , and serum glucose and electrolytes should be monitored closely .
See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
See WARNINGS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation .
Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance .
Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
Reactions reported with the use of potassium - containing solutions include nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , areflexia , muscular or respiratory paralysis , mental confusion , weakness , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest .
Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function , and intestinal ileus and dilatation .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression , amnesia , headaches , drowsiness , disorientation , syncope , hallucinations , hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles , dysphagia , arrhythmias and coma .
Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability , including cramps and convulsions .
Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process , aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Careful monitoring of blood acid - base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Other manifestations of hypersensitivity / infusion reactions : decreased heart rate , tachycardia , blood pressure decreased , respiratory distress , laryngeal edema , flushing , throat irritation , paresthesias , hypoesthesia oral , dysgeusia , anxiety , headache , and sneezing .
Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions : infection at the site of injection , phlebitis , extravasation , infusion site inflammation , infusion site swelling , infusion site rash , infusion site pain , infusion site burning .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only .
Dosage is to be directed by a physician and is dependent upon age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
When a hypertonic solution is to be administered peripherally , it should be slowly infused through a small bore needle , placed well within the lumen of a large vein to minimize venous irritation .
Carefully avoid infiltration .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
The presence of calcium ions in this solution should be considered when phosphate is present in additive solutions , in order to avoid precipitation .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions such as 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
Pediatric Use There is no specific pediatric dose .
The dose is dependent on weight , clinical condition and laboratory results .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in EXCEL ® Containers .
The 1000 mL containers are packaged 12 per case and the 500 mL containers are packaged 24 per case .
NDC REF Size 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection 0264 - 7751 - 00 L7510 1000 mL 0264 - 7751 - 10 L7511 500 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Rx only Revised : November 2021 EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions for Use of EXCEL Container Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connection .
To Open Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
NOTE : Before use , perform the following checks : Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Preparation for Administration • Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
To Add Medication Before Solution Administration • Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle , puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close clamp on the set .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle of appropriate length ( at least 5 / 8 inch ) , puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y36 - 003 - 026 LD - 380 - 5 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Container Label 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection REF L7510 NDC 0264 - 7751 - 00 1000 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER Each 100 mL contains : Hydrous Dextrose USP 5 g ; Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 6 g ; Sodium Lactate 0 . 31 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g ; Calcium Chloride • 2H2O USP 0 . 02 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with HCl NF pH : 4 . 6 ( 4 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 530 mOsmol / liter , hypertonic Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 130 ; K + 4 ; Ca + + 3 ; CI – 112 ; Lactate 28 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Do not use in series connection .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS .
Do Not Administer Simultaneously With Blood .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y94 - 003 - 220 LD - 141 - 4 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Container Label 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection REF L7511 NDC 0264 - 7751 - 10 500 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER Each 100 mL contains : Hydrous Dextrose USP 5 g ; Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 6 g ; Sodium Lactate 0 . 31 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g ; Calcium Chloride • 2H2O USP 0 . 02 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with HCl NF pH : 4 . 6 ( 4 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 530 mOsmol / liter , hypertonic Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 130 ; K + 4 ; Ca + + 3 ; Cl – 112 ; Lactate 28 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Do not use in series connection .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS .
Do Not Administer Simultaneously With Blood .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y94 - 003 - 222 LD - 140 - 4 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
