Isotonic Solution for Irrigation .
For Irrigation Only .
Not for Injection .
DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 5 . 75 ( 4 . 50 - 7 . 00 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 308 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 154 ; Chloride 154 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is utilized for a variety of clinical indications such as sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters , surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a diluent or vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP provides an isotonic saline irrigation identical in composition with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP ( normal saline ) .
Physiological irrigation solutions are considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is indicated for all general irrigation , washing , rinsing and dilution purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is not for injection by usual parenteral routes .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus , irrigation solutions must be regarded as systemic drugs .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
After opening container , its contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservatives .
PRECAUTIONS General Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering sterile irrigation solutions .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption of large amounts of fluid into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to ‘‘ dwell ” inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
When used for irrigation via appropriate irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance after prolonged irrigation , when fluid absorption is suspected , or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP .
It is also not known whether 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Safety and effectiveness of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP during labor and delivery have not been established .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP in pediatric patients have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP did not include a sufficient number of patients age 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluations are recommended to monitor changes in blood glucose , electrolyte concentrations , and renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue administration of the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , reevaluate the patient ’ s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
Intravascular volume overload may respond to hemodialysis .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As required for irrigation .
When used as a diluent , or vehicle for other drugs , the drug manufacturer ' s recommendations should be followed .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permits .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in single - dose 2000 mL and 3000 mL plastic containers packaged 4 per case .
NDC REF SIZE 0264 - 7388 - 50 R8205 2000 mL 0264 - 7388 - 60 R8206 3000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Directions for Use of Plastic Container Not for injection .
Not for use with pressurized irrigation systems .
Aseptic technique is required .
• Inspect irrigation bag : overwrap and primary bag .
• Do not use if overwrap has been damaged .
• Do not use unless solution is clear and closure is intact .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • To open : Tear overwrap starting from the tear notches .
( Figure 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Prepare medication port by removal of aluminum foil .
( Figure 2 a ) • Puncture resealable medication port by using 19 – 22 gauge needle and inject additive ( s ) .
( Figure 2 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
( Figure 3 a ) • Medication port must be swabbed with disinfection agent ( e . g . iso - propanol or chlorhexidine ) before re - puncturing .
• Check admixture visually for particulate matter .
( Figure 3 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove aluminum foil from outlet / set port at the bottom of container ( Figure 4 a ) and attach administration set ( Figure 4 b ) : use non - vented infusion set or close air vent on a vented set .
Refer to directions for use accompanying the administration set .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hang bag on IV Pole .
( Figure 5 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y36 - 002 - 963 LD - 398 - 4 Package Insert Rx only Revised : June 2018 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2000 mL Container Label 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE IRRIGATION USP ISOTONIC SOLUTION FOR IRRIGATION REF R8205 NDC 0264 - 7388 - 50 LOT EXP .
2000 mL Each 100 mL contains Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 5 . 75 ( 4 . 50 - 7 . 00 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 308 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 154 Chloride 154 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single unit container .
Discard unused portion .
Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y38 - 000 - 060 LD - 253 - 7 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3000 mL Container Label 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE IRRIGATION USP ISOTONIC SOLUTION FOR IRRIGATION REF R8206 NDC 0264 - 7388 - 60 LOT EXP .
3000 mL Each 100 mL contains Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 5 . 75 ( 4 . 50 - 7 . 00 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 308 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 154 Chloride 154 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single unit container .
Discard unused portion .
Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y38 - 000 - 061 LD - 254 - 6 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
