Benzocaine 20 % White petrolatum 73 . 64 % Questions or comments ?
call us at 1 - 800 - 952 - 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm or visit our website at www . orajel . com Topical anesthetic Skin protectant Use temporarily relieves pain , itching and dryness ; softens crusts ( scabs ) associated with • cold sores • fever blisters Warnings For external use only Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a physician or healthcare provider • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tube of tip on score mark • Do not use if tip is cut prior to opening Adults and Children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children betweem 2 and 12 years of age : Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age : Do not use Inactive ingredients cholecalciferol , mineral oil , phenoxyethanol ( and ) hydroxyacetophenone ( and ) caprylyl glycol ( and ) water , propylene glycol , prunella vulgaris leaf extract , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A palmitate ) , tocopherol , tocopherol acetate ( vitamin E acetate ) , zea mays ( corn ) oil # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIVER BRAND FOR ADULTS 2 Active Ingredients Orajel Instant Pain Relief FOR COLD SORES Fast - Acting Cream DOUBLE MEDICATED Relieves Pain & Itching Moisturizing Barrier Stays in Place Paraben Free TOPICAL ANESTHETIC / SKIN PROTECTANT NET WT 0 . 125 OZ ( 3 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
