NOT FOR USE IN NEWBORNS DESCRIPTION Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution .
Each mL contains : Sodium chloride 9 mg ; benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium chloride occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water .
It is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , when used only as a vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 to 1 . 5 liters each of insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE These parenteral preparations are indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
NOT FOR INHALATION .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Due to potential toxicity of benzyl alcohol in newborns , Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % containing benzyl alcohol must not be used in this patient population .
Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should not be used for fluid or sodium chloride replacement .
WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol as a preservative in Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Data is unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group .
Preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be used for flushing intravascular catheters .
Where a sodium chloride solution is required for preparing or diluting medications for use in newborns , only preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be used .
PRECAUTIONS General Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should not be used for those medicinals that specify the use of only Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % as a sterile solvent .
Sodium chloride must be used with caution in the presence of congestive heart failure , circulatory insufficiency , kidney dysfunction or hypoproteinemia .
Excessive amounts of sodium chloride by any route may cause hypopotassemia and acidosis .
Excessive amounts by the parenteral route may precipitate congestive heart failure and acute pulmonary edema , especially in patients with cardiovascular disease and in patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin or drugs that may give rise to sodium retention .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C — Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
It is also not known whether Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
Although adverse reactions to intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection of 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol are not known to occur in man , experimental studies of small volume parenteral preparations containing 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol in several species of animals have indicated that an estimated intravenous dose up to 30 mL may be safely given to an adult without toxic effects .
Administration of an estimated 9 mL to a 6 kg infant is potentially capable of producing blood pressure changes .
OVERDOSAGE Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOT FOR INHALATION .
Before Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride or benzyl alcohol .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Isotonic solutions may be given subcutaneously , intravenously , and occasionally , intramuscularly .
Use Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % with due regard for the compatibility of the benzyl alcohol it contains with the particular medicinal substance that is to be dissolved or diluted .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , preserved with benzyl alcohol is available as follows : NDC No .
Strength 70529 - 049 - 01 0 . 9 % 30 mL multiple dose plastic vial , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 20 0 . 9 % Two 30 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 30 0 . 9 % Three 30 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 40 0 . 9 % Four 30 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 15 0 . 9 % 10 mL multiple dose plastic vial , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 25 0 . 9 % Two 10 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 35 0 . 9 % Three 10 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
70529 - 049 - 45 0 . 9 % Four 10 mL multiple dose plastic vials , in a package .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
45765 D Revised : April 2008 Assembled and Distributed by IT3 Medical , LLC 190 E Stacy Road ; STE 306 - 298 , Allen , TX 75002 - 8734 For questions or comments : info @ IT3 - Medical . com , www . IT3 - Medical . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
