Enter section text here Contraindications ( 4 ) 1 / 2010 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 1 / 2010 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Enter section text here BONIVA is a bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Treatment and Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis BONIVA is indicated for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women .
BONIVA increases bone mineral density ( BMD ) and reduces the incidence of vertebral fractures .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Enter section text here One 150 mg tablet taken once monthly or one 2 . 5 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2 . 1 ) Dosing instructions ( 2 . 2 ) • Swallow whole tablet with 6 - 8 oz of plain water only , at least 60 minutes before the first food , beverage , or medication of the day .
• Do not lie down for at least 60 minutes after taking BONIVA .
• Do not eat , drink ( except for water ) , or take other medication for 60 minutes after taking BONIVA .
2 . 1 Dose The dose of BONIVA is either one 150 mg tablet taken once monthly on the same date each month or one 2 . 5 mg tablet taken once daily .
2 . 2 Dosing Instructions • To maximize absorption and clinical benefit , BONIVA should be taken at least 60 minutes before the first food or drink ( other than water ) of the day or before taking any oral medication or supplementation , including calcium , antacids , or vitamins ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS [ 7 . 1 ] ) .
• To facilitate delivery to the stomach and thus reduce the potential for esophageal irritation , BONIVA tablets should be swallowed whole with a full glass of plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ) while the patient is standing or sitting in an upright position .
Patients should not lie down for 60 minutes after taking BONIVA ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ 5 . 1 ] ) .
• Patients should not eat , drink anything except water , or take other medications for at least 60 minutes after taking BONIVA .
• Plain water is the only drink that should be taken with BONIVA .
Note that some mineral waters may have a higher concentration of calcium and therefore should not be used .
• Patients should not chew or suck the tablet because of a potential for oropharyngeal ulceration .
• The BONIVA 150 mg tablet should be taken on the same date each month ( i . e . , the patient ' s BONIVA day ) .
• The patient must not take two 150 mg tablets within the same week .
• If the once - monthly dose is missed , and the patient ' s next scheduled BONIVA day is more than 7 days away , the patient should be instructed to take one BONIVA 150 mg tablet in the morning following the date that it is remembered .
The patient should then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of their chosen day , according to their original schedule .
• If the once - monthly dose is missed , and the patient ' s next scheduled BONIVA day is only 1 to 7 days away , the patient must wait until the subsequent month ' s scheduled BONIVA day to take their tablet .
The patient should then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of their chosen day , according to their original schedule .
2 . 3 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS [ 7 . 1 ] ) .
2 . 4 use in Specific Populations BONIVA is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of < 30 mL / min ) .
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
No dose adjustment is necessary for the elderly , or for patients with hepatic impairment .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets , 2 . 5 mg and 150 mg Tablets : 2 . 5 mg , 150 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Abnormalities of the esophagus which delay esophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia ( see Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ 5 . 1 ] ) • Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes ( see Dosing Instructions [ 2 . 2 ] , Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ 5 . 1 ] ) • Hypocalcemia ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ 5 . 2 ] ) • Known hypersensitivity to BONIVA or to any of its excipients ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS [ 6 . 2 ] ) .
• Abnormalities of the esophagus which delay esophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Hypocalcemia ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to BONIVA ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here • Severe irritation of the upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) mucosa can occur .
Dosing instructions should be followed and caution should be used in patients with active upper GI disease .
Discontinue use if new or worsening symptoms occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypocalcemia may worsen during treatment .
Correct hypocalcemia before use .
( 5 . 2 ) • Severe bone , joint , and muscle pain may occur .
Consider discontinuing use if symptoms develop .
( 5 . 3 ) • Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions BONIVA , like other bisphosphonates administered orally , may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa .
Because of these possible irritant effects and a potential for worsening of the underlying disease , caution should be used when BONIVA is given to patients with active upper gastrointestinal problems ( such as known Barrett ' s esophagus , dysphagia , other esophageal diseases , gastritis , duodenitis or ulcers ) .
Esophageal adverse experiences , such as esophagitis , esophageal ulcers and esophageal erosions , occasionally with bleeding and rarely followed by esophageal stricture or perforation , have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates .
In some cases , these have been severe and required hospitalization .
Physicians should therefore be alert to any signs or symptoms signaling a possible esophageal reaction and patients should be instructed to discontinue BONIVA and seek medical attention if they develop dysphagia , odynophagia , retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn .
The risk of severe esophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who lie down after taking oral bisphosphonates and / or who fail to swallow it with the recommended full glass ( 6 - 8 oz ) of water , and / or who continue to take oral bisphosphonates after developing symptoms suggestive of esophageal irritation .
Therefore , it is very important that the full dosing instructions are provided to , and understood by , the patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [ 2 . 2 ] ) .
In patients who cannot comply with dosing instructions due to mental disability , therapy with BONIVA should be used under appropriate supervision .
There have been post - marketing reports of gastric and duodenal ulcers with oral bisphosphonate use , some severe and with complications , although no increased risk was observed in controlled clinical trials .
5 . 2 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolsim Treat hypocalcemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting BONIVA therapy .
Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients to prevent hypocalcemia ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [ 2 . 3 ] ) .
Hypocalcemia following dosing has been reported postmarketing .
5 . 3 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone , joint , and / or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking BONIVA and other bisphosphonates ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS [ 6 ] ) .
The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug .
Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping .
A subset had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate .
Consider discontinuing use if severe symptoms develop .
5 . 4 Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis , primarily in the jaw , has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates .
Most cases have been in cancer patients undergoing dental procedures , but some have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis or other diagnoses .
Known risk factors for osteonecrosis include a diagnosis of cancer , concomitant therapies ( e . g . , chemotherapy , radiotherapy , corticosteroids ) , and co - morbid disorders ( e . g . , anemia , coagulopathy , infection , pre - existing dental disease ) .
Most reported cases have been in patients treated with bisphosphonates intravenously but some have been in patients treated orally ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS [ 6 . 2 ] ) .
For patients who develop osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) while on bisphosphonate therapy , dental surgery may exacerbate the condition .
For patients requiring dental procedures , there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ .
Clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit / risk assessment .
5 . 5 Severe Renal Impairment BONIVA is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of < 30 mL / min ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Enter section text here The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % ) are back pain , dyspepsia , pain in extremity , diarrhea , headache , and myalgia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Genentech at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Treatment and Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety of BONIVA 2 . 5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 – 82 years .
The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years , with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to BONIVA 2 . 5 mg .
Patients with pre - existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials .
All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 IU vitamin D supplementation daily .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 1 % in the placebo group and 1 . 2 % in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 20 % in the placebo group and 23 % in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was approximately 17 % in both the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and the placebo group .
Table 1 lists adverse events from the treatment and prevention studies reported in ≥ 2 % of patients and more frequently in patients treated daily with BONIVA than patients treated with placebo .
Table 1 Adverse Events Occurring at a Frequency ≥ 2 % and More Frequently in Patients Treated with BONIVA than in Patients Treated with Placebo Daily in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % ( n = 1134 ) BONIVA 2 . 5 mg % ( n = 1140 ) Body as a Whole Back Pain 12 . 2 13 . 5 Pain in Extremity 6 . 4 7 . 8 Infection 3 . 4 4 . 3 Asthenia 2 . 3 3 . 5 Allergic Reaction 1 . 9 2 . 5 Digestive System Dyspepsia 9 . 8 11 . 9 Diarrhea 5 . 0 6 . 8 Tooth Disorder 2 . 3 3 . 5 Vomiting 2 . 1 2 . 7 Gastritis 1 . 9 2 . 2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Hypercholesterolemia 4 . 2 4 . 8 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 5 . 1 5 . 7 Joint Disorder 3 . 3 3 . 6 Arthritis 2 . 7 3 . 2 Nervous System Headache 5 . 8 6 . 5 Dizziness 2 . 6 3 . 7 Vertigo 2 . 5 3 . 0 Nerve Root Lesion 1 . 9 2 . 2 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection 33 . 2 33 . 7 Bronchitis 6 . 8 10 . 0 Pneumonia 4 . 3 5 . 9 Pharyngitis 1 . 5 2 . 5 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 . 2 5 . 5 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily groups were : dyspepsia ( 10 % vs . 12 % ) , diarrhea ( 5 % vs . 7 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 5 % vs . 6 % ) .
Musculoskeletal Adverse Events The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily groups were : back pain ( 12 % vs . 14 % ) , arthralgia ( 14 % vs . 14 % ) and myalgia ( 5 % vs . 6 % ) .
Ocular Adverse Events Reports in the medical literature indicate that bisphosphonates may be associated with ocular inflammation such as iritis and scleritis .
In some cases , these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued .
There were no reports of ocular inflammation in studies with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily .
Monthly Dosing The safety of BONIVA 150 mg once monthly in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a two year trial which enrolled 1583 patients aged 54 – 81 years , with 395 patients exposed to BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily and 396 exposed to BONIVA 150 mg monthly .
Patients with active or significant pre - existing gastrointestinal disease were excluded from this trial .
Patients with dyspepsia or concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in this study .
All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 IU vitamin D supplementation daily .
After one year , the incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 3 % in both the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and the BONIVA 150 mg monthly group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 5 % in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and 7 % in the BONIVA 150 mg monthly group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 9 % in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and 8 % in the BONIVA 150 mg monthly group .
Table 2 lists the adverse events reported in ≥ 2 % of patients .
Table 2 Adverse Events with an Incidence of at Least 2 % in Patients Treated with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg Daily or 150 mg Once - Monthly for Treatment of Postmenopausal OsteoporosisBody System / Adverse Event BONIVA 2 . 5 mg Daily % ( n = 395 ) BONIVA 150 mg Monthly % ( n = 396 ) Vascular Disorders Hypertension 7 . 3 6 . 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Dyspepsia 7 . 1 5 . 6 Nausea 4 . 8 5 . 1 Diarrhea 4 . 1 5 . 1 Constipation 2 . 5 4 . 0 Abdominal Pain * 5 . 3 7 . 8 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 3 . 5 5 . 6 Back Pain 4 . 3 4 . 5 Pain in Extremity 1 . 3 4 . 0 Localized Osteoarthritis 1 . 3 3 . 0 Myalgia 0 . 8 2 . 0 Muscle Cramp 2 . 0 1 . 8 Infections and Infestations Influenza 3 . 8 4 . 0 Nasopharyngitis 4 . 3 3 . 5 Bronchitis 3 . 5 2 . 5 Urinary Tract Infection 1 . 8 2 . 3 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 2 . 0 2 . 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 4 . 1 3 . 3 Dizziness 1 . 0 2 . 3 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza - like Illness † 0 . 8 3 . 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash ‡ 1 . 3 2 . 3 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 0 . 8 2 . 0 * Combination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper † Combination of influenza - like illness and acute phase reaction ‡ Combination of rash pruritic , rash macular , rash papular , rash generalized , rash erythematous , dermatitis , dermatitis allergic , dermatitis medicamentosa , erythema and exanthem Gastrointestinal Adverse Events The incidence of adverse events in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily and BONIVA 150 mg monthly groups were : dyspepsia ( 7 % vs . 6 % ) , diarrhea ( 4 % vs . 5 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 5 % vs . 8 % ) .
Musculoskeletal Adverse Events The incidence of adverse events in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily and BONIVA 150 mg monthly groups were : back pain ( 4 % vs . 5 % ) , arthralgia ( 4 % vs . 6 % ) and myalgia ( 1 % vs . 2 % ) .
Acute Phase Reactions Symptoms consistent with acute phase reactions have been reported with bisphosphonate use .
Over the two years of the study , the overall incidence of acute phase reaction symptoms was 3 % in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and 9 % in the BONIVA 150 mg monthly group .
These incidence rates are based on the reporting of any of 33 acute - phase reaction like symptoms within 3 days of the monthly dosing and lasting 7 days or less .
Influenza like illness was reported in no patients in the BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily group and 2 % in the BONIVA 150 mg monthly group .
Ocular Adverse Events Two patients who received BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly experienced ocular inflammation , one was a case of uveitis and the other scleritis .
One hundred sixty ( 160 ) postmenopausal women without osteoporosis participated in a 1 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly for prevention of bone loss .
Seventy - seven subjects received BONIVA and 83 subjects received placebo .
The overall pattern of adverse events was similar to that previously observed .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of BONIVA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , bronchospasm and rash have been reported ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS [ 4 ] ) .
Hypocalcemia Hypocalcemia has been reported in patients treated with BONIVA ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ 5 . 2 ] ) .
Musculoskeletal Pain Bone , joint , or muscle pain ( musculoskeletal pain ) , described as severe or incapacitating , has been reported ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ 5 . 3 ] ) .
Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported in patients treated with BONIVA ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ 5 . 4 ] ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Enter section text here • Calcium supplements , antacids and some oral medications may interfere with absorption of ibandronate .
( 7 . 1 ) • Use caution when co - prescribing aspirin / nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs that may worsen gastrointestinal irritation .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Calcium Supplements / Antacids Products containing calcium and other multivalent cations ( such as aluminum , magnesium , iron ) are likely to interfere with absorption of BONIVA .
BONIVA should be taken at least 60 minutes before any oral medications , including medications containing multivalent cations ( such as antacids , supplements or vitamins ) .
Also , patients should wait at least 60 minutes after dosing before taking any other oral medications ( see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ 17 . 1 ] ) .
7 . 2 Aspirin / Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) Because aspirin , NSAIDs , and bisphosphonates are all associated with gastrointestinal irritation , caution should be exercised in the concomitant use of aspirin or NSAIDs with BONIVA .
7 . 3 H2 Blockers In healthy volunteers , co - administration with ranitidine resulted in a 20 % increased bioavailability of ibandronate , which was not considered to be clinically relevant ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ 12 . 3 ] ) .
7 . 4 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone - imaging agents .
Specific studies with ibandronate have not been performed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Enter section text here BONIVA is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy : Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
BONIVA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the mother and fetus .
Bisphosphonates are incorporated into the bone matrix , from where they are gradually released over periods of weeks to years .
The extent of bisphosphonate incorporation into adult bone , and hence , the amount available for release back into the systemic circulation , is directly related to the total dose and duration of bisphosphonate use .
Although there are no data on fetal risk in humans , bisphosphonates do cause fetal harm in animals , and animal data suggest that uptake of bisphosphonates into fetal bone is greater than into maternal bone .
Therefore , there is a theoretical risk of fetal harm ( e . g . , skeletal and other abnormalities ) if a woman becomes pregnant after completing a course of bisphosphonate therapy .
The impact of variables such as time between cessation of bisphosphonate therapy to conception , the particular bisphosphonate used , and the route of administration ( intravenous versus oral ) on this risk has not been established .
In female rats given ibandronate orally at doses ≥ 3 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg or ≥ 1 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg beginning 14 days before mating and continuing through lactation , maternal deaths were observed at the time of delivery in all dose groups .
Perinatal pup loss in dams given 45 times human exposure at the recommended daily dose and 13 times the recommended once - monthly dose was likely related to maternal dystocia .
Calcium supplementation did not completely prevent dystocia and periparturient mortality in any of the treated groups at ≥ 16 times the recommended daily dose and ≥ 4 . 6 times the recommended once - monthly dose .
A low incidence of postimplantation loss was observed in rats treated from 14 days before mating throughout lactation or during gestation , only at doses causing maternal dystocia and periparturient mortality .
In pregnant rats dosed orally from gestation day 17 through lactation day 21 ( following closure of the hard palate through weaning ) , maternal toxicity , including dystocia and mortality , fetal perinatal and postnatal mortality , were observed at doses equivalent to human exposure at the recommended daily and ≥ 4 times the recommended once - monthly dose .
Periparturient mortality has also been observed with other bisphosphonates and appears to be a class effect related to inhibition of skeletal calcium mobilization resulting in hypocalcemia and dystocia ( see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY [ 13 . 2 ] ) .
Exposure of pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased fetal incidence of RPU ( renal pelvis ureter ) syndrome at oral doses 30 times the human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 9 times the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg .
Impaired pup neuromuscular development ( cliff avoidance test ) was observed at 45 times human exposure at the daily dose and 13 times the once - monthly dose ( see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY [ 13 . 2 ] ) .
In pregnant rabbits treated orally with ibandronate during gestation at doses ≥ 8 times the recommended human daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 4 times the recommended human once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , dose - related maternal mortality was observed in all treatment groups .
The deaths occurred prior to parturition and were associated with lung edema and hemorrhage .
No significant fetal anomalies were observed ( see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY [ 13 . 2 ] ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether BONIVA is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BONIVA is administered to a nursing woman .
In lactating rats treated with intravenous doses , ibandronate was present in breast milk from 2 to 24 hours after dose administration .
Concentrations in milk averaged 1 . 5 times plasma concentrations .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the patients receiving BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily in postmenopausal osteoporosis studies , 52 % were over 65 years of age , and 10 % were over 75 years of age .
Of the patients receiving BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly in the postmenopausal osteoporosis 1 - year study , 52 % were over 65 years of age , and 9 % were over 75 years of age .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment BONIVA is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage of BONIVA .
However , based on knowledge of this class of compounds , oral overdosage may result in hypocalcemia , hypophosphatemia , and upper gastrointestinal adverse events , such as upset stomach , dyspepsia , esophagitis , gastritis , or ulcer .
Milk or antacids should be given to bind BONIVA .
Due to the risk of esophageal irritation , vomiting should not be induced , and the patient should remain fully upright .
Dialysis would not be beneficial .
11 DESCRIPTION BONIVA ( ibandronate sodium ) is a nitrogen - containing bisphosphonate that inhibits osteoclast - mediated bone resorption .
The chemical name for ibandronate sodium is 3 - ( N - methyl - N - pentyl ) amino - 1 - hydroxypropane - 1 , 1 - diphosphonic acid , monosodium salt , monohydrate with the molecular formula C9H22NO7P2Na • H2O and a molecular weight of 359 . 24 .
Ibandronate sodium is a white - to off - white powder .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in organic solvents .
Ibandronate sodium has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] BONIVA is available as a white , oblong , 2 . 5 mg film - coated tablet for daily oral administration or as a white , oblong , 150 mg film - coated tablet for once - monthly oral administration .
One 2 . 5 mg film - coated tablet contains 2 . 813 mg ibandronate monosodium monohydrate , equivalent to 2 . 5 mg free acid .
One 150 mg film - coated tablet contains 168 . 75 mg ibandronate monosodium monohydrate , equivalent to 150 mg free acid .
BONIVA also contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , crospovidone , purified stearic acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , and purified water .
The tablet film coating contains hypromellose , titanium dioxide , talc , polyethylene glycol 6000 , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Enter section text here 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The action of ibandronate on bone tissue is based on its affinity for hydroxyapatite , which is part of the mineral matrix of bone .
Ibandronate inhibits osteoclast activity and reduces bone resorption and turnover .
In postmenopausal women , it reduces the elevated rate of bone turnover , leading to , on average , a net gain in bone mass .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Osteoporosis is characterized by decreased bone mass and increased fracture risk , most commonly at the spine , hip , and wrist .
The diagnosis can be confirmed by a finding of low bone mass , evidence of fracture on x - ray , a history of osteoporotic fracture , or height loss or kyphosis indicative of vertebral fracture .
While osteoporosis occurs in both men and women , it is most common among women following menopause .
In healthy humans , bone formation and resorption are closely linked ; old bone is resorbed and replaced by newly formed bone .
In postmenopausal osteoporosis , bone resorption exceeds bone formation , leading to bone loss and increased risk of fracture .
After menopause , the risk of fractures of the spine and hip increases ; approximately 40 % of 50 - year - old women will experience an osteoporosis - related fracture during their remaining lifetimes .
BONIVA produced biochemical changes indicative of dose - dependent inhibition of bone resorption , including decreases of biochemical markers of bone collagen degradation ( such as deoxypyridinoline , and cross - linked C - telopeptide of Type I collagen ) in the daily dose range of 0 . 25 mg to 5 mg and once - monthly doses from 100 mg to 150 mg in postmenopausal women .
Treatment with 2 . 5 mg daily BONIVA resulted in decreases in biochemical markers of bone turnover , including urinary C - terminal telopeptide of Type I collagen ( uCTX ) and serum osteocalcin , to levels similar to those in premenopausal women .
Changes in markers of bone formation were observed later than changes in resorption markers , as expected , due to the coupled nature of bone resorption and formation .
Treatment with 2 . 5 mg daily BONIVA decreased levels of uCTX within 1 month of starting treatment and decreased levels of osteocalcin within 3 months .
Bone turnover markers reached a nadir of approximately 64 % below baseline values by 6 months of treatment and remained stable with continued treatment for up to 3 years .
Following treatment discontinuation , there is a return to pretreatment baseline rates of elevated bone resorption associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis .
In a 1 - year , study comparing once - monthly vs . once - daily oral dosing regimens , the median decrease from baseline in serum CTX values was - 76 % for patients treated with the 150 mg once - monthly regimen and - 67 % for patients treated with the 2 . 5 mg daily regimen .
In a 1 - year , prevention study comparing BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly to placebo , the median placebo - subtracted decrease in sCTX was - 49 . 8 % .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absorption of oral ibandronate occurs in the upper gastrointestinal tract .
Plasma concentrations increase in a dose - linear manner up to 50 mg oral intake and increases nonlinearly above this dose .
Following oral dosing , the time to maximum observed plasma ibandronate concentrations ranged from 0 . 5 to 2 hours ( median 1 hour ) in fasted healthy postmenopausal women .
The mean oral bioavailability of 2 . 5 mg ibandronate was about 0 . 6 % compared to intravenous dosing .
The extent of absorption is impaired by food or beverages ( other than plain water ) .
The oral bioavailability of ibandronate is reduced by about 90 % when BONIVA is administered concomitantly with a standard breakfast in comparison with bioavailability observed in fasted subjects .
There is no meaningful reduction in bioavailability when ibandronate is taken at least 60 minutes before a meal .
However , both bioavailability and the effect on bone mineral density ( BMD ) are reduced when food or beverages are taken less than 60 minutes following an ibandronate dose .
Distribution After absorption , ibandronate either rapidly binds to bone or is excreted into urine .
In humans , the apparent terminal volume of distribution is at least 90 L , and the amount of dose removed from the circulation via the bone is estimated to be 40 % to 50 % of the circulating dose .
In vitro protein binding in human serum was 99 . 5 % to 90 . 9 % over an ibandronate concentration range of 2 to 10 ng / mL in one study and approximately 85 . 7 % over a concentration range of 0 . 5 to 10 ng / mL in another study .
Metabolism Ibandronate does not undergo hepatic metabolism and does not inhibit the hepatic cytochrome P450 system .
Ibandronate is eliminated by renal excretion .
Based on a rat study , the ibandronate secretory pathway does not appear to include known acidic or basic transport systems involved in the excretion of other drugs .
There is no evidence that ibandronate is metabolized in humans .
Elimination The portion of ibandronate that is not removed from the circulation via bone absorption is eliminated unchanged by the kidney ( approximately 50 % to 60 % of the absorbed dose ) .
Unabsorbed ibandronate is eliminated unchanged in the feces .
The plasma elimination of ibandronate is multiphasic .
Its renal clearance and distribution into bone accounts for a rapid and early decline in plasma concentrations , reaching 10 % of the Cmax within 3 or 8 hours after intravenous or oral administration , respectively .
This is followed by a slower clearance phase as ibandronate redistributes back into the blood from bone .
The observed apparent terminal half - life for ibandronate is generally dependent on the dose studied and on assay sensitivity .
The observed apparent terminal half - life for the 150 mg ibandronate tablet upon oral administration to healthy postmenopausal women ranges from 37 to 157 hours .
Total clearance of ibandronate is low , with average values in the range 84 to 160 mL / min .
Renal clearance ( about 60 mL / min in healthy postmenopausal females ) accounts for 50 % to 60 % of total clearance and is related to creatinine clearance .
The difference between the apparent total and renal clearances likely reflects bone uptake of the drug .
Specific Populations Pediatrics The pharmacokinetics of ibandronate has not been studied in patients < 18 years of age .
Geriatric Because ibandronate is not known to be metabolized , the only difference in ibandronate elimination for geriatric patients versus younger patients is expected to relate to progressive age - related changes in renal function .
Gender The bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of ibandronate are similar in both men and women .
Race Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Renal Impairment Renal clearance of ibandronate in patients with various degrees of renal impairment is linearly related to creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) .
Following a single dose of 0 . 5 mg ibandronate by intravenous administration , patients with CLcr 40 to 70 mL / min had 55 % higher exposure ( AUC ∞ ) than the exposure observed in subjects with CLcr > 90 mL / min .
Patients with CLcr < 30 mL / min had more than a two - fold increase in exposure compared to the exposure for healthy subjects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [ 2 . 4 ] ) .
Hepatic Impairment No studies have been performed to assess the pharmacokinetics of ibandronate in patients with hepatic impairment because ibandronate is not metabolized in the human liver .
Drug Interactions Products containing calcium and other multivalent cations ( such as aluminum , magnesium , iron ) , including milk , food , and antacids are likely to interfere with absorption of ibandronate , which is consistent with findings in animal studies .
H2 Blockers A pharmacokinetic interaction study in healthy volunteers demonstrated that 75 mg ranitidine ( 25 mg injected intravenously 90 and 15 minutes before and 30 minutes after ibandronate administration ) increased the oral bioavailability of 10 mg ibandronate by about 20 % .
This degree of increase is not considered to be clinically relevant .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY Enter section text here 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study , doses of 3 , 7 , or 15 mg / kg / day were administered by oral gavage to male and female Wistar rats ( systemic exposures up to 12 and 7 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg , and cumulative exposures up to 3 . 5 and 2 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
There were no significant drug - related tumor findings in male or female rats .
In a 78 - week carcinogenicity study , doses of 5 , 20 , or 40 mg / kg / day were administered by oral gavage to male and female NMRI mice ( exposures up to 475 and 70 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and cumulative exposures up to 135 and 20 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
There were no significant drug - related tumor findings in male or female mice .
In a 90 - week carcinogenicity study , doses of 5 , 20 , or 80 mg / kg / day were administered in the drinking water to NMRI mice ( cumulative monthly exposures in males and females up to 70 and 115 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
A dose - related increased incidence of adrenal subcapsular adenoma / carcinoma was observed in female mice , which was statistically significant at 80 mg / kg / day ( 220 to 400 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and 115 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown .
Mutagenesis There was no evidence for a mutagenic or clastogenic potential of ibandronate in the following assays : in vitro bacterial mutagenesis assay in Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ( Ames test ) , mammalian cell mutagenesis assay in Chinese hamster V79 cells , and chromosomal aberration test in human peripheral lymphocytes , each with and without metabolic activation .
Ibandronate was not genotoxic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus tests for chromosomal damage .
Impairment of Fertility In female rats treated from 14 days prior to mating through gestation , decreases in fertility , corpora lutea , and implantation sites were observed at an oral dose of 16 mg / kg / day ( 45 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and 13 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
13 . 2 Animal Reproductive and Developmental Toxicology In female rats given oral doses of 1 , 4 , or 16 mg / kg / day beginning 14 days before mating and continuing through lactation , maternal deaths were observed at the time of delivery in all dose groups ( ≥ 3 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg or ≥ 1 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
Perinatal pup loss in dams given 16 mg / kg / day ( 45 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and 13 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) was likely related to maternal dystocia .
In pregnant rats given oral doses of 6 , 20 , or 60 mg / kg / day during gestation , calcium supplementation ( 32 mg / kg / day by subcutaneous injection from gestation day 18 to parturition ) did not completely prevent dystocia and periparturient mortality in any of the treated groups ( ≥ 16 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 4 . 6 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
A low incidence of postimplantation loss was observed in rats treated from 14 days before mating throughout lactation or during gestation , only at doses causing maternal dystocia and periparturient mortality .
In pregnant rats dosed orally with 1 , 5 , or 20 mg / kg / day from gestation day 17 through lactation day 21 ( following closure of the hard palate through weaning ) , maternal toxicity , including dystocia and mortality , fetal perinatal and postnatal mortality , were observed at doses ≥ 5 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 4 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
Periparturient mortality has also been observed with other bisphosphonates and appears to be a class effect related to inhibition of skeletal calcium mobilization resulting in hypocalcemia and dystocia .
Exposure of pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased fetal incidence of RPU ( renal pelvis ureter ) syndrome at oral doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( ≥ 30 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 9 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
Impaired pup neuromuscular development ( cliff avoidance test ) was observed at 16 mg / kg / day when dams were dosed from 14 days before mating through lactation ( 45 times human exposure at the recommended daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and 13 times human exposure at the recommended once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
In pregnant rabbits given oral doses of 1 , 4 , or 20 mg / kg / day during gestation , dose - related maternal mortality was observed in all treatment groups ( ≥ 8 times the recommended human daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg and ≥ 4 times the recommended human once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on body surface area comparison , mg / m2 ) .
The deaths occurred prior to parturition and were associated with lung edema and hemorrhage .
No significant fetal anomalies were observed .
13 . 3 Animal Pharmacology Animal studies have shown that ibandronate is an inhibitor of osteoclast - mediated bone resorption .
In the Schenk assay in growing rats , ibandronate inhibited bone resorption and increased bone volume , based on histologic examination of the tibial metaphyses .
There was no evidence of impaired mineralization at the highest dose of 5 mg / kg / day ( subcutaneously ) , which is 1000 times the lowest antiresorptive dose of 0 . 005 mg / kg / day in this model , and 5000 times the optimal antiresorptive dose of 0 . 001 mg / kg / day in the aged ovariectomized rat .
This indicates that BONIVA administered at therapeutic doses is unlikely to induce osteomalacia .
Long - term daily or once - monthly intermittent administration of ibandronate to ovariectomized rats or monkeys was associated with suppression of bone turnover and increases in bone mass .
In both rats and monkeys , vertebral BMD , trabecular density , and biomechanical strength were increased dose - dependently at doses up to 15 times the recommended human daily oral dose of 2 . 5 mg , or cumulative monthly doses up to 8 times ( rat ) or 6 times ( monkey ) the recommended human once - monthly oral dose of 150 mg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) or AUC comparison .
In monkeys , ibandronate maintained the positive correlation between bone mass and strength at the ulna and femoral neck .
New bone formed in the presence of ibandronate had normal histologic structure and did not show mineralization defects .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Enter section text here 14 . 1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The effectiveness and safety of BONIVA were demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multinational study ( Treatment Study ) of 2946 women aged 55 to 80 years , who were on average 21 years postmenopause , who had lumbar spine BMD 2 to 5 SD below the premenopausal mean ( T - score ) in at least one vertebra [ L1 - L4 ] , and who had 1 to 4 prevalent vertebral fractures .
BONIVA was evaluated at oral doses of 2 . 5 mg daily and 20 mg intermittently .
The main outcome measure was the occurrence of new radiographically diagnosed vertebral fractures after 3 years of treatment .
The diagnosis of an incident vertebral fracture was based on both qualitative diagnosis by the radiologist and quantitative morphometric criterion .
The morphometric criterion required the dual occurrence of 2 events : a relative height ratio or relative height reduction in a vertebral body of at least 20 % , together with at least a 4 mm absolute decrease in height .
All women received 400 IU vitamin D and 500 mg calcium supplementation per day .
Effect on Fracture Incidence BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily significantly reduced the incidence of new vertebral ( primary efficacy measure ) and of new and worsening vertebral fractures .
Over the course of the 3 - year study , the risk for vertebral fracture was 9 . 6 % in the placebo - treated women and 4 . 7 % in the women treated with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg ( p < 0 . 001 ) ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 Effect of BONIVA on the Incidence of Vertebral Fracture in the 3 - Year Osteoporosis Treatment Study * Proportion of Patients with Fracture ( % ) Placebo n = 975 BONIVA 2 . 5 mg Daily n = 977 Absolute Risk Reduction ( % ) 95 % CI Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) 95 % CI New Vertebral Fracture 9 . 6 4 . 7 4 . 9 52 † 0 - 3 Year ( 2 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ( 29 , 68 ) New and Worsening Vertebral Fracture 10 . 4 5 . 1 5 . 3 52 0 - 3 Year ( 2 . 6 , 7 . 9 ) ( 30 , 67 ) Clinical ( Symptomatic ) Vertebral Fracture 5 . 3 2 . 8 2 . 5 49 0 - 3 Year ( 0 . 6 , 4 . 5 ) ( 14 , 69 ) * The endpoint value is the value at the study ' s last time point , 3 years , for all patients who had a fracture identified at that time ; otherwise , the last postbaseline value prior to the study ' s last time point is used .
† p = 0 . 0003 vs . placebo BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily did not reduce the incidence of nonvertebral fractures ( secondary efficacy measure ) .
There was a similar number of nonvertebral osteoporotic fractures at 3 years reported in women treated with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily [ 9 . 1 % , ( 95 % CI : 7 . 1 % , 11 . 1 % ) ] and placebo [ 8 . 2 % , ( 95 % CI : 6 . 3 % , 10 . 2 % ) ] .
The two treatment groups were also similar with regard to the number of fractures reported at the individual nonvertebral sites : pelvis , femur , wrist , forearm , rib , and hip .
Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) BONIVA significantly increased BMD at the lumbar spine and hip relative to treatment with placebo .
In the 3 - year osteoporosis treatment study , BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily produced increases in lumbar spine BMD that were progressive over 3 years of treatment and were statistically significant relative to placebo at 6 months and at all later time points .
Lumbar spine BMD increased by 6 . 4 % after 3 years of treatment with 2 . 5 mg daily BONIVA compared with 1 . 4 % in the placebo group .
Table 4 displays the significant increases in BMD seen at the lumbar spine , total hip , femoral neck , and trochanter compared to placebo .
Thus , overall BONIVA reverses the loss of BMD , a central factor in the progression of osteoporosis .
Table 4 Mean Percent Change in BMD from Baseline to Endpoint in Patients Treated Daily with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg or Placebo in the 3 - Year Osteoporosis Treatment Study * Placebo BONIVA 2 . 5 mg Daily Lumbar Spine 1 . 4 ( n = 693 ) 6 . 4 ( n = 712 ) Total Hip - 0 . 7 ( n = 638 ) 3 . 1 ( n = 654 ) Femoral Neck - 0 . 7 ( n = 683 ) 2 . 6 ( n = 699 ) Trochanter 0 . 2 ( n = 683 ) 5 . 3 ( n = 699 ) * The endpoint value is the value at the study ' s last time point , 3 years , for all patients who had BMD measured at that time ; otherwise , the last postbaseline value prior to the study ' s last time point is used .
Bone Histology The effects of BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily on bone histology were evaluated in iliac crest biopsies from 16 women after 22 months of treatment and 20 women after 34 months of treatment .
The histological analysis of bone biopsies showed bone of normal quality and no indication of osteomalacia or a mineralization defect .
Once - Monthly Dosing The effectiveness and safety of BONIVA once - monthly were demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind , multinational , noninferiority trial in 1602 women aged 54 to 81 years , who were on average 18 years postmenopause , and had L2 - L4 lumbar spine BMD T - score below - 2 . 5 SD at baseline .
The main outcome measure was the comparison of the percentage change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD after 1 year of treatment with once - monthly ibandronate ( 100 mg , 150 mg ) to daily ibandronate ( 2 . 5 mg ) .
All patients received 400 IU vitamin D and 500 mg calcium supplementation per day .
BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly ( n = 327 ) was shown to be noninferior to BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily ( n = 318 ) in lumbar spine BMD in a 1 - year , double - blind , multicenter study of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis .
In the primary efficacy analysis ( per - protocol population ) , the mean increases from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at 1 year were 3 . 86 % ( 95 % CI : 3 . 40 % , 4 . 32 % ) in the 2 . 5 mg daily group and 4 . 85 % ( 95 % CI : 4 . 41 % , 5 . 29 % ) in the 150 mg once - monthly group ; the mean difference between 2 . 5 mg daily and 150 mg once - monthly was 0 . 99 % ( 95 % CI : 0 . 38 % , 1 . 60 % ) , which was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) .
The results of the intent - to - treat analysis were consistent with the primary efficacy analysis .
The 150 mg once - monthly group also had consistently higher BMD increases at the other skeletal sites compared to the 2 . 5 mg daily group .
14 . 2 Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety and effectiveness of BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis were demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 2 - year study ( Prevention Study ) of 653 postmenopausal women without osteoporosis at baseline .
Women were aged 41 to 82 years , were on average 8 . 5 years postmenopause , and had lumbar spine BMD T - scores > - 2 . 5 .
Women were stratified according to time since menopause ( 1 to 3 years , > 3 years ) and baseline lumbar spine BMD ( T - score : > - 1 , - 1 to - 2 . 5 ) .
The study compared daily BONIVA at three dose levels ( 0 . 5 mg , 1 . 0 mg , 2 . 5 mg ) with placebo .
All women received 500 mg of supplemental calcium per day .
The primary efficacy measure was the change in BMD of lumbar spine after 2 years of treatment .
BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily resulted in a mean increase in lumbar spine BMD of 3 . 1 % compared with placebo following 2 years of treatment .
Increases in BMD were seen at 6 months and at all later time points .
Irrespective of the time since menopause or the degree of pre - existing bone loss , treatment with BONIVA resulted in a higher BMD response at the lumbar spine compared with placebo across all four baseline strata [ time since menopause ( 1 to 3 years , > 3 years ) and baseline lumbar spine BMD ( T - score : > - 1 , - 1 to - 2 . 5 ) ] .
Compared with placebo , treatment with BONIVA 2 . 5 mg daily increased BMD of the total hip by 1 . 8 % , the femoral neck by 2 . 0 % , and the trochanter by 2 . 1 % .
Once - Monthly Dosing BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly prevented bone loss in a majority ( 88 . 2 % ) of women in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 1 - year study ( Monthly Prevention Study ) of 160 postmenopausal women with low bone mass at baseline ( T - score of - 1 to - 2 . 5 ) .
Women , aged 46 to 60 years , were on average 5 . 4 years postmenopause .
All women received 400 IU of vitamin D and 500 mg calcium supplementation daily .
The primary efficacy measure was the relative change in BMD at the lumbar spine after 1 year of treatment .
BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly resulted in a mean increase in lumbar spine BMD of 4 . 12 % ( 95 % confidence interval 2 . 96 – 5 . 28 ) compared with placebo following 1 year of treatment ( p < 0 . 0001 ) , based on a 3 . 73 % and - 0 . 39 % mean change in BMD from baseline in the 150 mg once - monthly BONIVA and placebo treatment groups , respectively .
BMD at other skeletal sites was also increased relative to baseline values .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Enter section text here 16 . 1 How Supplied BONIVA 150 mg tablets : supplied as white , oblong , film - coated tablets , engraved with " BNVA " on one side and " 150 " on the other side .
Packaged in 3 blister packs of 1 tablet each NDC 54868 - 5322 - 0 1 blister pack of 1 tablet each NDC 54868 - 5322 - 1 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ( 17 . 2 ) 17 . 1 Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to read the Patient Information Leaflet carefully before taking BONIVA , to re - read it each time the prescription is renewed and to pay particular attention to the dosing instructions in order to maximize absorption and clinical benefit .
• BONIVA should be taken at least 60 minutes before the first food or drink ( other than water ) of the day and before taking any oral medication or supplementation including calcium , antacids or vitamins ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS [ 7 . 1 ] ) .
• To facilitate delivery to the stomach , and thus reduce the potential for esophageal irritation , BONIVA tablets should be swallowed whole with a full glass of plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ) while the patient is standing or sitting in an upright position .
Patients should not lie down for 60 minutes after taking BONIVA .
• Patients should not eat , drink anything except for water , or take other medications for 60 minutes after taking BONIVA .
• Plain water is the only drink that should be taken with BONIVA .
Note that some mineral waters may have a higher concentration of calcium and therefore should not be used .
• Patients should not chew or suck the tablet because of a potential for oropharyngeal ulceration .
• The BONIVA 2 . 5 mg tablet should be taken at the same time each day .
• If a once - daily dose is missed , the patient should be instructed to skip that dose and return to their normal schedule the next day .
• The patient must not take two 2 . 5 mg tablets within the same day .
• The BONIVA 150 mg tablet should be taken on the same date each month ( i . e . , the patient ' s BONIVA day ) .
• The patient must not take two 150 mg tablets within the same week .
• If the once - monthly dose is missed , and the patient ' s next scheduled BONIVA day is more than 7 days away , the patient should be instructed to take one BONIVA 150 mg tablet in the morning following the date that it is remembered ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [ 2 . 3 ] ) .
The patient should then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of their chosen day , according to their original schedule .
• If the once - monthly dose is missed , and the patient ' s next scheduled BONIVA day is only 1 to 7 days away , the patient must wait until the subsequent month ' s scheduled BONIVA day to take their tablet .
The patient should then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of their chosen day , according to their original schedule .
Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate .
Intake of supplemental calcium and vitamin D should be delayed for at least 60 minutes following oral administration of BONIVA in order to maximize absorption of BONIVA .
Physicians should be alert to signs or symptoms signaling a possible esophageal reaction during therapy , and patients should be instructed to discontinue BONIVA and seek medical attention if they develop symptoms of esophageal irritation such as new or worsening dysphagia , pain on swallowing , retrosternal pain , or heartburn .
17 . 2 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Read this patient information carefully before you start taking BONIVA .
Read this patient information each time you get a refill for BONIVA .
There may be new information .
This information is not everything you need to know about BONIVA .
It does not take the place of talking with your health care provider about your condition or your treatment .
Talk about BONIVA with your health care provider before you start taking it , and at your regular check - ups .
What is the most important information I should know about BONIVA ?
BONIVA may cause serious problems in the stomach and the esophagus ( the tube that connects your mouth and stomach ) such as trouble swallowing , heartburn , and ulcers ( see " What are the possible side effects of BONIVA ? " )
.
You must take BONIVA exactly as prescribed for BONIVA to work for you and to lower the chance of serious side effects ( see " How should I take BONIVA ? " )
.
What is BONIVA ?
BONIVA is a prescription medicine used to treat or prevent osteoporosis in women after menopause ( see the end of this leaflet for " What is osteoporosis ? " )
.
BONIVA may reverse bone loss by stopping more loss of bone and increasing bone mass in most women who take it , even though they wo n't be able to see or feel a difference .
BONIVA may help lower the chances of breaking bones ( fractures ) .
For BONIVA to treat or prevent osteoporosis , you have to take it as prescribed .
BONIVA will not work if you stop taking it .
Who should not take BONIVA ?
Do not take BONIVA if you : • have certain problems with your esophagus , the tube that connects your mouth and stomach • cannot sit or stand up for at least 60 minutes • have low blood calcium ( hypocalcemia ) • are allergic to ibandronate sodium or any of the other ingredients of BONIVA ( see the end of this leaflet for a list of all the ingredients in BONIVA ) • have kidneys that work very poorly Tell your health care provider before using BONIVA : • if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if BONIVA can harm your unborn baby .
• if you are breast - feeding .
It is not known if BONIVA passes into your milk and if it can harm your baby .
• have swallowing problems or other problems with your esophagus ( the tube that connects your mouth and stomach ) • if you have kidney problems • if you are planning a dental procedure such as tooth extraction Tell your health care provider ( including your dentist ) about all the medicines you take including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and supplements .
Some medicines , especially certain vitamins , supplements , and antacids can stop BONIVA from getting to your bones .
This can happen if you take other medicines too close to the time that you take BONIVA ( see " How should I take BONIVA ? " )
.
How should I take BONIVA ?
• Take BONIVA exactly as instructed by your health care provider .
• Take BONIVA first thing in the morning at least 60 minutes before you eat , drink anything other than plain water , or take any other oral medicine .
• Take BONIVA with 6 to 8 ounces ( about 1 full cup ) of plain water .
Do not take it with any drink other than plain water .
Do not take it with other drinks , such as mineral water , sparkling water , coffee , tea , dairy drinks ( such as milk ) , or juice .
• Swallow BONIVA whole .
Do not chew or suck the tablet or keep it in your mouth to melt or dissolve .
• After taking BONIVA you must wait at least 60 minutes before : – Lying down .
You may sit , stand , or do normal activities like read the newspaper or take a walk .
– Eating or drinking anything except for plain water .
– Taking other oral medicines including vitamins , calcium , or antacids .
Take your vitamins , calcium , and antacids at a different time of the day from the time when you take BONIVA .
• If you take too much BONIVA , drink a full glass of milk and call your local poison control center or emergency room right away .
Do not make yourself vomit .
Do not lie down .
• Keep taking BONIVA for as long as your health care provider tells you .
BONIVA will not work if you stop taking it .
• Your health care provider may tell you to exercise and take calcium and vitamin supplements to help your osteoporosis .
• Your health care provider may do a test to measure the thickness ( density ) of your bones or do other tests to check your progress .
What is my BONIVA schedule ?
Schedule for taking BONIVA 2 . 5 mg once - daily : • Take one BONIVA 2 . 5 mg tablet once a day first thing in the morning at least 60 minutes before you eat , drink anything other than plain water , or take any other oral medicine ( see " How should I take BONIVA ? " )
.
What to do if I miss a daily dose : • If you forget to take your BONIVA 2 . 5 mg tablet in the morning , do not take it later in the day .
Just return to your normal schedule and take 1 tablet the next morning .
Do not take two tablets on the same day .
• If you are not sure what to do if you miss a dose , contact your health care provider who will be able to advise you .
Schedule for taking BONIVA 150 mg once - monthly : • Take one BONIVA 150 mg tablet once a month .
• Choose one date of the month ( your BONIVA day ) that you will remember and that best fits your schedule to take your BONIVA 150 mg tablet .
• Take one BONIVA 150 mg tablet in the morning of your chosen day ( see " How should I take BONIVA ? " )
.
What to do if I miss a monthly dose : • If your next scheduled BONIVA day is more than 7 days away , take one BONIVA 150 mg tablet in the morning following the day that you remember ( see " How should I take BONIVA ? " )
.
Then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of your chosen day , according to your original schedule .
• Do not take two 150 mg tablets within the same week .
If your next scheduled BONIVA day is only 1 to 7 days away , wait until your next scheduled BONIVA day to take your tablet .
Then return to taking one BONIVA 150 mg tablet every month in the morning of your chosen day , according to your original schedule .
• If you are not sure what to do if you miss a dose , contact your health care provider who will be able to advise you .
What should I avoid while taking BONIVA ?
• Do not take other medicines , or eat or drink anything but plain water before you take BONIVA and for at least 60 minutes after you take it .
• Do not lie down for at least 60 minutes after you take BONIVA .
What are the possible side effects of BONIVA ?
Stop taking BONIVA and call your health care provider right away if you have : • pain or trouble with swallowing • chest pain • very bad heartburn or heartburn that does not get better BONIVA MAY CAUSE : • pain or trouble swallowing ( dysphagia ) • heartburn ( esophagitis ) • ulcers in your stomach or esophagus ( the tube that connects your mouth and stomach ) Common side effects with BONIVA are : • diarrhea • pain in extremities ( arms or legs ) • dyspepsia ( upset stomach ) Less common side effects with BONIVA are short - lasting , mild flu - like symptoms ( which usually improve after the first dose ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of BONIVA .
For more information ask your health care provider or pharmacist .
Rarely , patients have reported allergic and skin reactions .
Contact your health care provider if you develop any symptoms of an allergic reaction including skin rash ( with or without blisters ) , hives , wheezing , or swelling of the face , lips , tongue or throat .
Get medical help right away if you have trouble breathing , swallowing or feel light - headed .
Rarely , patients have reported severe bone , joint , and / or muscle pain starting within one day to several months after beginning to take , by mouth , bisphosphonate drugs to treat osteoporosis ( thin bones ) .
This group of drugs includes BONIVA .
Most patients experienced relief after stopping the drug .
Contact your health care provider if you develop these symptoms after starting BONIVA .
Rarely , patients taking bisphosphonates have reported serious jaw problems associated with delayed healing and infection , often following dental procedures such as tooth extraction .
If you experience jaw problems , contact your health care provider and dentist .
What is osteoporosis ?
Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become thinner .
Thin bones can break easily .
Most people think of their bones as being solid like a rock .
Actually , bone is living tissue , just like other parts of the body , such as your heart , brain , or skin .
Bone just happens to be a harder type of tissue .
Bone is always changing .
Your body keeps your bones strong and healthy by replacing old bone with new bone .
Osteoporosis causes the body to remove more bone than it replaces .
This means that bones get weaker .
Weak bones are more likely to break .
Osteoporosis is a bone disease that is quite common in women after menopause .
At first , osteoporosis has no symptoms , but people with osteoporosis may develop loss of height and are more likely to break ( fracture ) their bones , especially the back ( spine ) , wrist , and hip bones .
Osteoporosis can be prevented , and with proper therapy it can be treated .
Who is at risk for osteoporosis ?
Talk to your health care provider about your chances for getting osteoporosis .
Many things put people at risk for osteoporosis .
The following people have a higher chance of getting osteoporosis : Women who : • are going through or who are past menopause ( " the change " ) • are white ( Caucasian ) or Asian People who : • are thin • have a family member with osteoporosis • do not get enough calcium or vitamin D • do not exercise • smoke • drink alcohol often • take bone thinning medicines ( like prednisone ) for a long time General information about BONIVA Do not use BONIVA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give BONIVA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
Store BONIVA at 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) or at room temperature between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ( 15 ° C and 30 ° C ) .
Keep BONIVA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This summarizes the most important information about BONIVA .
If you would like more information , talk with your health care provider .
You can ask your health care provider or pharmacist for information about BONIVA that is written for health professionals .
For more information about BONIVA , call 1 - 888 - MY - BONIVA or visit www . myboniva . com .
What are the ingredients of BONIVA ?
BONIVA ( active ingredient ) : ibandronate sodium BONIVA ( inactive ingredients ) : lactose monohydrate , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , crospovidone , purified stearic acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , and purified water .
The tablet film coating contains hypromellose , titanium dioxide , talc , polyethylene glycol 6000 and purified water .
BONIVA is a registered trademark of Roche Therapeutics Inc .
Distributed by : Genentech USA , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 BAT _ 2005450 _ PI _ AR2010 _ K ( 1 ) Revised : January 2010 © 2010 Genentech , Inc .
All rights reserved .
( see the HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Pack Carton once - monthly Boniva ® ( ibandronate sodium ) Tablets One tablet contains 168 . 75 mg ibandronate monosodium monohydrate , equivalent to 150 mg free acid .
USUAL DOSAGE : For dosage recommendations and other important prescribing information , read accompanying insert .
PHARMACIST : Dispense with important patient information .
150 mg 3 Packs – One Tablet Per Pack Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
