1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XIPERE ® ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension ) 40 mg / mL is indicated for the treatment of macular edema associated with uveitis .
XIPERE ® is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of macular edema associated with uveitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 4 mg ( 0 . 1 mL ) administered as a suprachoroidal injection .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information For suprachoroidal injection using the SCS Microinjector ® .
The recommended dose of XIPERE ® is 4 mg ( 0 . 1 mL of the 40 mg / mL injectable suspension ) .
2 . 2 Preparation for Administration • Suprachoroidal injection is performed under aseptic conditions .
The components for administration include : • A . One single - dose glass vial of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension 40 mg / mL • B . One SCS Microinjector ® syringe with vial adapter attached • C . One 30 - G x 900 - µm needle • D . One 30 - G x 1100 - µm needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A • Remove the tray from the carton ( see Figure A ) .
The tray consists of two compartments : • • An open , non - sterile compartment that holds the vial • • A sealed compartment that contains a sterile tray Step 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B • Examine the tray for damage ( see Figure B ) .
Ensure that the sealed compartment cover is intact and that there is no evidence of damage .
If damage is present , do not use .
Step 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C • Remove the vial from the tray ( see Figure C ) .
Examine the vial and ensure there is no evidence of damage .
Set aside for use in Step 6 .
Step 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D • Peel off the compartment cover , exposing the sterile tray ( see Figure D ) .
Step 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Grasp and hold the long sides of the tray and invert the tray .
Squeeze gently to release the sterile tray onto the appropriate sterile preparation surface ( see Figure E , i – iii ) .
Step 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Vigorously shake the vial for 10 seconds .
Inspect the vial for clumping or granular appearance of the sterile contents .
If clumping or granular appearance is present , do not use .
Remove the protective plastic cap from the vial and clean the top of the vial with an alcohol wipe .
Place the vial on a flat surface ( see Figure F , i – iv ) .
To avoid settling of the suspension , continue to the next steps without delay .
Figure F Step 7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the syringe with attached vial adapter from the tray ( see Figure G ) .
Ensure the vial adapter is secured to the syringe by tightening the connection .
Figure G Step 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Holding the clear barrel of the syringe , connect the vial adapter to the vial by firmly pushing the spike of the vial adapter straight through the center of the vial septum until it snaps securely into place ( see Figure H ) .
NOTE : Do not introduce additional air into the syringe prior to connecting the vial adapter to the vial .
Figure H Step 9 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Invert the entire assembly so that the vial is directly above the syringe .
Slide the white plunger handle all the way back and forth multiple times to fill the entire syringe with drug and remove any remaining air ( see Figure I , i and ii ) .
NOTE : The syringe should be handled by the clear barrel during filling , connecting and disconnecting procedures .
The white plunger handle has a stop to prevent complete removal of the plunger from the syringe .
Figure I Step 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J • While holding the vial adapter and vial , disconnect the syringe by twisting it off of the adapter ( see Figure J ) .
Retain the vial , with the vial adapter connected , in the event re - access is necessary .
Step 11 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K • Connect the 900 - µm needle to the syringe by twisting onto the syringe ( see Figure K ) .
At the discretion of the physician , the longer needle may be used .
Ensure a secure connection .
Step 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L • Hold the syringe barrel with the needle pointing up .
Expel air bubbles and excess drug by slowly sliding the white plunger handle so that the plunger tip aligns with the line that marks 0 . 1 mL on the syringe ( see Figure L ) .
NOTE : Perform the suprachoroidal injection without delay to prevent settling of the drug .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Administration The suprachoroidal injection procedure should be carried out under controlled aseptic conditions , which include the use of sterile gloves , a sterile drape , a sterile eyelid speculum ( or equivalent ) , and a sterile cotton swab .
Adequate anesthesia and a broad - spectrum microbicide applied to the periocular skin , eyelid , and ocular surface are recommended to be given prior to the suprachoroidal injection .
Step 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure M • Identify the injection site by measuring 4 – 4 . 5 mm posterior to the limbus using the tip of the needle cap or ophthalmic calipers ( see Figure M ) .
Step 14 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure N • Carefully pull off the needle cap to expose the needle .
Holding the syringe perpendicular to the ocular surface , insert the needle through the conjunctiva into the sclera ( see Figure N ) .
Step 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure O • Once the needle is inserted into the sclera , ensure that the hub of the needle is in firm contact with the conjunctiva , compressing the sclera and creating a dimple on the ocular surface using a light amount of force against the eye .
Maintain the dimple and perpendicular positioning throughout the injection procedure ( see Figure O ) .
Step 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure P • While maintaining the dimple on the ocular surface , gently press the white plunger handle so that the plunger moves forward and drug is slowly injected over 5 – 10 seconds .
Movement of the plunger will be felt as a loss of resistance and indicates that the needle is in the correct anatomical location for suprachoroidal injection ( see Figure P ) .
If resistance is felt and the plunger does not advance , confirm the hub is in firm contact with the conjunctiva creating a dimple and that the syringe is positioned perpendicular to the ocular surface .
Small adjustments in positioning may be necessary .
• Step 17 Maintain the hub against the eye for 3 – 5 seconds after the drug product has been injected .
• Step 18 Remove the needle slowly from the eye while holding a sterile cotton swab next to the needle as it is withdrawn .
Immediately cover the injection site with a sterile cotton swab .
• Step 19 Hold the swab over the injection site with light pressure for a few seconds and then remove .
If continued resistance is experienced during injection attempts : • • Remove the needle from the eye and examine the eye for any issues .
If patient safety is not at risk , the physician may use medical judgment to restart the injection procedure at a new site adjacent to the original injection site .
• • If resistance continues and patient safety is not at risk , the physician may use appropriate medical judgment to change to the additional included needle in the sterile tray .
Twist to remove the needle and reconnect the syringe to the vial by twisting the syringe onto the vial adapter .
Repeat the preparation and injection process as stated in Steps 9 – 18 with the additional needle ( allowing for any partial dose given with the first needle when completing preparation Step 12 ) .
Immediately following suprachoroidal injection , patients should be monitored for elevation of intraocular pressure .
Appropriate monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion of the optic nerve head or tonometry .
Following suprachoroidal injection , patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment ( e . g . , eye pain , redness of eye , photophobia , blurring of vision ) without delay [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Each XIPERE ® package ( microinjector syringe with vial adapter , 900 - µm needle , 1100 - µm needle , and vial of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension 40 mg / mL ) is single - dose and should only be used for the treatment of one eye .
After suprachoroidal injection , all drug product and components ( used or unused ) must be discarded appropriately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injectable suspension : triamcinolone acetonide 40 mg / mL suspension in a single - dose glass vial for use with the supplied SCS Microinjector ® .
Injectable suspension : triamcinolone acetonide 40 mg / mL in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Ocular or periocular infections ( 4 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity to triamcinolone or any component of this product ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Ocular or Periocular Infections XIPERE ® is contraindicated in patients with active or suspected ocular or periocular infections including most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including active epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , mycobacterial infections , and fungal diseases .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity XIPERE ® is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to triamcinolone acetonide or any other components of this product .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Potential Corticosteroid - Related Effects : Use of corticosteroids may produce cataracts , increased intraocular pressure , and glaucoma .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Potential Corticosteroid - Related Effects Use of corticosteroids may produce cataracts , increased intraocular pressure , and glaucoma .
Use of corticosteroids may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria , fungi , or viruses .
Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with a history of ocular herpes simplex .
Corticosteroids should not be used in patients with active ocular herpes simplex .
5 . 2 Alterations in Endocrine Function Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and hyperglycemia can occur following administration of a corticosteroid .
Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use .
Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage .
This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy ; therefore , in any situation of stress occurring during that period , hormone therapy should be reinstituted .
Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients .
Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled studies , the most common adverse reactions reported by ≥ 10 % of patients and at a rate greater than control included elevated intraocular pressure and eye pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
XIPERE ® was studied in a multicenter , randomized , sham - controlled , double - masked study in patients with macular edema associated with uveitis .
Table 1 summarizes data available from the clinical trial for XIPERE ® treated patients and control patients .
The most common ocular ( study eye ) adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of patients and non - ocular adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of patients are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Ocular Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 2 % of Patients and Non - ocular Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patientsa Includes intraocular pressure increased and ocular hypertension b Defined as not occurring on the day of the injection procedure , or occurring on the day of the injection procedure and not resolving the same day c Includes cataract , cataract cortical , and cataract subcapsular d Defined as occurring on the day of the injection procedure and resolving the same day Adverse Reaction XIPERE ® ( N = 96 ) n ( % ) Control ( N = 64 ) n ( % ) Ocular Increased intraocular pressure , non - acute a , b 13 ( 14 % ) 9 ( 14 % ) Eye pain , non - acute b 11 ( 12 % ) 0 Cataract c 7 ( 7 % ) 4 ( 6 % ) Increased intraocular pressure , acute a , d 6 ( 6 % ) 0 Vitreous detachment 5 ( 5 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Injection site pain 4 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Conjunctival haemorrhage 4 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Visual acuity reduced 4 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Dry eye 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Eye pain , acute d 3 ( 3 % ) 0 Photophobia 3 ( 3 % ) 0 Vitreous floaters 3 ( 3 % ) 0 Uveitis 2 ( 2 % ) 7 ( 11 % ) Conjunctival hyperaemia 2 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Punctate keratitis 2 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Conjunctival oedema 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Meibomianitis 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Anterior capsule contraction 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Chalazion 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Eye irritation 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Eye pruritus 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Eyelid ptosis 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Photopsia 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Vision blurred 2 ( 2 % ) 0 Non - ocular Headache 5 ( 5 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with XIPERE ® in pregnant women to inform drug - associated risks .
In animal reproductive studies from the published literature , topical ocular administration of corticosteroids has been shown to produce teratogenicity at clinically relevant doses .
There is negligible systemic XIPERE ® exposure following suprachoroidal injection [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Animal Data Animal reproduction studies using XIPERE ® have not been conducted .
In animal reproductive studies from the published literature , topical ocular administration of corticosteroids to pregnant mice and rabbits during organogenesis has been shown to produce cleft palate , embryofetal death , herniated abdominal viscera , hypoplastic kidneys , and craniofacial malformations .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether ocular administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for XIPERE ® and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from XIPERE ® .
There are no data on the effects of XIPERE ® on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of XIPERE ® in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients following XIPERE ® administration .
11 DESCRIPTION XIPERE ® is a sterile , preservative - free , injectable suspension of triamcinolone acetonide , a synthetic corticosteroid for use with the SCS Microinjector ® .
Each mL of the sterile , aqueous suspension contains 40 mg of triamcinolone acetonide with 0 . 55 % ( weight / volume [ w / v ] ) sodium chloride for tonicity , 0 . 5 % ( w / v ) carboxymethylcellulose sodium , and 0 . 02 % ( w / v ) polysorbate 80 .
It also contains potassium chloride , calcium chloride ( dihydrate ) , magnesium chloride ( hexahydrate ) , sodium acetate ( trihydrate ) , sodium citrate ( dihydrate ) , and water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid may be used to adjust pH to a target value of 6 . 5 .
The chemical name for triamcinolone acetonide is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 16ɑ , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular weight 434 . 50 ; molecular formula C24H31FO6 Triamcinolone acetonide occurs as a white to cream - colored , crystalline powder having not more than a slight odor and is practically insoluble in water and very soluble in alcohol .
XIPERE ® is provided as an injectable suspension in a single - dose glass vial with a rubber stopper and an aluminum seal .
The SCS Microinjector ® is a piston syringe and a needle approximately 1 mm in length ( 900 - µm and 1100 - µm needles are included ) for conducting the suprachoroidal injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Triamcinolone acetonide is a synthetic glucocorticoid ( glucocorticoids are often referred to as corticosteroids ) with immunosuppressive and anti - inflammatory activity .
The primary mechanism of action for triamcinolone acetonide is as a corticosteroid hormone receptor agonist .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In animal studies , data demonstrated that suprachoroidal injections resulted in larger amounts in total of triamcinolone acetonide found in the sclera , choroid , retinal pigment epithelial and retina , than with intravitreal injections of triamcinolone acetonide .
Lower amounts of triamcinolone acetonide were found in the anterior segment and lens as compared to intravitreal injections of triamcinolone acetonide .
Plasma triamcinolone acetonide concentrations were evaluated in 19 patients with dosing of 4 mg XIPERE ® at Day 0 and Week 12 .
Plasma triamcinolone acetonide concentrations in all 19 patients were below 100 pg / mL at Week 4 , 12 , and 24 ( concentrations ranged from < 10 pg / mL [ LLOQ ( lower limit of quantitation ) of the assay ] to 88 . 9 pg / mL ) , with the exception of one patient with a value of 243 . 4 pg / mL prior to the second dose at Week 12 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No information is available on the carcinogenic potential of triamcinolone acetonide .
Mutagenesis No information is available on the mutagenic potential of triamcinolone acetonide .
Fertility No information is available on the effect of triamcinolone acetonide on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of XIPERE ® was assessed in a 6 - month , randomized , multicenter , double - masked , sham - controlled study in patients with macular edema associated with anterior - , intermediate - , posterior - , or pan - uveitis .
Patients were treated at baseline and Week 12 .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients in whom best corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) had improved by ≥ 15 letters from baseline after 24 weeks of follow - up ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Number of Patients with ≥ 15 Letters Improvement from Baseline at Week 24 * The p - value was based on a Cochran Mantel Haenszel test for general association between treatment and response with stratification by country .
Patients Who Gained ≥ 15 Letters from Baseline at Week 24 XIPERE ® ( N = 96 ) Control ( N = 64 ) n ( % ) 45 ( 47 % ) 10 ( 16 % ) Estimated Difference ( 95 % CI ) 31 % ( 15 % , 46 % ) CMH p - value * < 0 . 01 A statistically significantly greater proportion of patients treated with XIPERE ® achieved a ≥ 15 - letter improvement in BCVA than control patients ( p < 0 . 01 ) at Week 24 .
BCVA mean change from baseline at different visits is shown in Figure 1 .
Central subfield retinal thickness ( CST ) mean change from baseline at different visits is shown in Figure 2 .
• Figure 1 : Mean Change from Baseline in BCVA [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure 2 : Mean Change from Baseline in CST [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING XIPERE ® is supplied with the following sterile components for administration , sealed in a Tyvek covered tray , and one single - dose glass vial , in a carton with a package insert ( NDC 24208 - 040 - 40 ) : • • One SCS Microinjector ® syringe with vial adapter attached • • One 30 - G x 900 - µm needle • • One 30 - G x 1100 - µm needle • • One single - dose vial of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension 40 mg / mL ( NDC 24208 - 040 - 41 ) Storage : Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; do not freeze .
The drug vial should be protected from light by storing in the carton .
Discard unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Corticosteroid - Related Effects Advise patients that they may develop elevated intraocular pressure following treatment , which may need to be managed with medication or surgery .
When to Seek Physician Advice Advise patients that if the eye becomes red , sensitive to light , painful , or develops a change in vision , they should seek immediate care from an ophthalmologist .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Patented .
See https : / / patents . bausch . com for US patent information .
XIPERE ® , SCS ® , and SCS Microinjector ® are trademarks of Clearside Biomedical , Inc . used under license .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9772101 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24208 - 040 - 40 XIPERE ® ( triamcinolone acetonide Injectable suspension ) 40 mg / mL For suprachoroidal use Carton contains : • One single - dose glass vial of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension 40 mg / mL • One SCS Microinjector ® syringe with vial adapter attached • One 30 - G x 900 - μm needle • One 30 - G x 1100 - μm needle • One package insert Rx only Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
BAUSCH + LOMB 9771901 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
