Active Ingredient Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and painsof muscles and joints associated with a simple backache , athritis , strains and sprains Warnings Warnings For external use only • This is not a face cream .
Do not apply to the face .
• Do not use if allergic to chili peppers or if past allergic reaction to capsaicin • Do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken , sunburned , chapped or irritated skin .
• Do not bandage tightly • Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath , shower , hot tub , saunaor vigrous exercise • Warm water , perspiration or open pores can intensify the impact of this product and bruning sensation .
• Do not use with heating pad , hot water bottle or other source of heat .
Doing so can increase risk of serious burns .
When using this product Do not get into eyesand avoid contact with mucous membranes .
If contact occurs or if pain , discomfort or skin redness occurs , continuously rinse with cool water and seek medical help .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Stop using and get immediate medical attention if experience burning , pain , swelling or blistering of the skin .
Rare cases of severe burning or blistering have been reported .
If pregnant , breast - feeding or any medical conditions exist , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If inhaled , remove the fresh air .
If breathing is difficult , get medical attention immediately .
Directions Directions • Rotate pump ' s spout counter - clockwise slightly to unlock ; clockwise to lock .
• Before using on children under 18 years of age consult a physician .
• Apply sparingly to affected area not more than 4 times daily .
However , for the first use , apply to small area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction .
• Gently massage into skin until fully absorbed .
• Wash hands with soap and water thoroughly after each applicationto avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes .
WARNING : FLAMMABLE PRODUCT Store in a cool well ventilated area away from heat .
Keep away from sparks or open flame .
Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients : Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Arnica Montana Extract , Bosswellia Serrata Extract , Cetyl Alcohol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Isopropyl Myristate , PEG - 8 , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate - 20 , Triethanolamine FOR QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS : info @ pindintl . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
