DESCRIPTION Each full - strength TussiCaps ® ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) extended - release capsule contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate .
Each half - strength TussiCaps ® ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) extended - release capsule contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 5 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 4 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules provide up to 12 - hour relief per dose .
Hydrocodone is a centrally - acting narcotic antitussive .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are for oral use only .
Hydrocodone Polistirex : sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chlorpheniramine Polistirex : sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 2 - [ p - chloro - α - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - benzyl ] pyridine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Butyl alcohol , dehydrated alcohol , gelatin , iron oxide black JPE , isopropyl alcohol , microcrystalline cellulose , propylene glycol , purified water , SDA 3 A alcohol ( 27 CFR ) , shellac , shellac glaze - 45 % in SD - 45 alcohol , strong ammonia solution , titanium dioxide , D & C yellow # 10 , D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 1 / brilliant blue FCF aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake , and FD & C red # 40 / allura red AC aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic antitussive and analgesic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known ; however , hydrocodone is believed to act directly on the cough center .
In excessive doses , hydrocodone , like other opium derivatives , will depress respiration .
The effects of hydrocodone in therapeutic doses on the cardiovascular system are insignificant .
Hydrocodone can produce miosis , euphoria , and physical and psychological dependence .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine drug ( H1 receptor antagonist ) that also possesses anticholinergic and sedative activity .
It prevents released histamine from dilating capillaries and causing edema of the respiratory mucosa .
Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine release from TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules is controlled by use of an ion - exchange polymer matrix .
Following multiple dosing with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended - release suspension , hydrocodone mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 22 . 8 ( 5 . 9 ) ng / mL occurred at 3 . 4 hours .
Chlorpheniramine mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 58 . 4 ( 14 . 7 ) ng / mL occurred at 6 . 3 hours following multiple dosing .
Peak plasma levels obtained with an immediate - release syrup occurred at approximately 1 . 5 hours for hydrocodone and 2 . 8 hours for chlorpheniramine .
The plasma half - lives of hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine have been reported to be approximately 4 and 16 hours , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TussiCaps ® ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) extended - release capsules are indicated for relief of cough and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or a cold in adults and children 6 years of age and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with a known allergy or sensitivity to hydrocodone or chlorpheniramine .
The use of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age due to the risk of fatal respiratory depression .
WARNINGS Respiratory Depression – As with all narcotics , TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules produce dose - related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers .
Hydrocodone affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm , and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
Caution should be exercised when TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease , or whenever ventilatory function is depressed .
If respiratory depression occurs , it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride and other supportive measures when indicated ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure – The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions , which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions – The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Obstructive Bowel Disease – Chronic use of narcotics may result in obstructive bowel disease especially in patients with underlying intestinal motility disorder .
Pediatric Use – The use of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
In pediatric patients , as well as adults , the respiratory center is sensitive to the depressant action of narcotic cough suppressants in a dose - dependent manner .
Caution should be exercised when administering TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules to pediatric patients 6 years of age and older .
Overdose or concomitant administration of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules with other respiratory depressants may increase the risk of respiratory depression in pediatric patients .
Benefit to risk ratio should be carefully considered , especially in pediatric patients with respiratory embarrassment ( e . g . , croup ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution is advised when prescribing this drug to patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , asthma , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Special Risk Patients – As with any narcotic agent , TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ' s disease , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind .
Information for Patients As with all narcotics , TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery ; patients should be cautioned accordingly .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules must not be diluted with fluids or mixed with other drugs as this may alter the resin - binding and change the absorption rate , possibly increasing the toxicity .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Cough Reflex – Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are used postoperatively , and in patients with pulmonary disease .
Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics , antihistamines , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
When combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone .
The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and reproductive studies have not been conducted with TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C – Hydrocodone has been shown to be teratogenic in hamsters when given in doses 700 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects – Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
Labor and Delivery As with all narcotics , administration of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The use of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS , Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders ) .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules should be used with caution in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( see WARNINGS , Pediatric Use ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended - release did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur ; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients .
Prolonged administration of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules may produce constipation .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation , drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , euphoria , dizziness , psychic dependence , mood changes .
Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters , and urinary retention have been reported with opiates .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx , occasional tightness of the chest , and respiratory depression ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Use of TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Overdose with TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules in children 6 years of age and older , in adolescents , and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash , pruritus .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are Schedule III narcotics .
Psychic dependence , physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics ; therefore , TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules should be prescribed and administered with caution .
However , psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when TussiCaps ® extended - release capsules are used for a short time for the treatment of cough .
Physical dependence , the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome , assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued oral narcotic use , although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms – Serious overdosage with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
Although miosis is characteristic of narcotic overdose , mydriasis may occur in terminal narcosis or severe hypoxia .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
The manifestations of chlorpheniramine overdosage may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Treatment – Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote for respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics including hydrocodone .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone in this formulation may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
For further information , see full prescribing information for naloxone hydrochloride .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Gastric emptying may be useful in removing unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children 12 Years and Older One ( 1 ) full - strength TussiCaps ® extended - release capsule ( hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate ) every 12 hours ; do not exceed 2 capsules in 24 hours .
Children 6 to 11 Years of Age One ( 1 ) half - strength TussiCaps ® extended - release capsule ( hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 5 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 4 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate ) every 12 hours ; do not exceed 2 capsules in 24 hours .
This medicine is contraindicated in children under 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Full - Strength : 10 mg / 8 mg TussiCaps ® ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) extended - release capsules Each full - strength capsule contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate .
It is available as an Ivory / Ivory capsule printed in blue with “ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ” on the cap and “ HP / CP ” over “ 10 / 8 ” on the body .
• Bottles of 20 ....................................... NDC 54868 - 5957 - 0 • [ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well - closed container .
A Schedule CIII Narcotic .
For Medical Information Contact : Product Monitoring Department Phone : 800 - 778 - 7898 Manufactured by : Mallinckrodt Inc .
Hazelwood , Missouri 63042 U . S . A . COVIDIEN , COVIDIEN with Logo , TussiCaps and [ MULTIMEDIA ] are trademarks of Covidien AG or an affiliate .
© 2008 Covidien AG or an affiliate .
All rights reserved .
Rev 060308 COVIDIEN Mallinckrodt Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg / 8 mg Bottle NDC 54868 - 5957 - 0 20 CAPSULES TussiCaps ® ( Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex ) Extended - Release Capsules CIII 10 mg / 8 mg ( full - strength ) Contraindicated in children under 6 years of age .
Each capsule contains : Hydrocodone Polistirex equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate Chlorpheniramine Polistirex equivalent to 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate Rx only This package is not for household use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
