Active ingredient Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Uses For the temporarily relieves of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , and sore throat .
Warnings Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 6 years of age unless directed by doctor .
When using this product , do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • ▪ sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • ▪ irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • ▪ swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisoning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • ▪ Adults and children 12 year of age and older : Apply to affected area ( one spray ) .
Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out .
Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist • ▪ Children 6 years to under 12 of age : Should be supervised in use of this product .
• ▪ Children under 6 years : Consult a doctor or dentist Other information • • Store at room temperature • • Check expiration date before using .
Inactive ingredients FD & C Green # 3 , D & C Green # 5 , FD & C Yellow # 10 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel * Compare to the active ingredient in Chloraseptic ® NDC # 41415 - 307 - 06 SORE THROAT SPRAY Phenol / Oral Pain Reliever • • Fast Acting • • Numbs on Contact SUGAR - FREE ASPIRIN - FREE MENTHOL FLAVOR Naturally and Artificially Flavored 6 FL OZ .
( 177 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Chloraseptic ® .
TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use if imprinted shrink band is broken or torn .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
