Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of Hydrocortisone Cream USP , 2 . 5 % contains 25 mg of hydrocortisone in a cream base of cetyl alcohol , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , and stearyl alcohol .
Each gram of Hydrocortisone Ointment USP , 2 . 5 % contains 25 mg of hydrocortisone in ointment base of light mineral oil and white petrolatum .
Chemically , hydrocortisone is [ Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - ] with the molecular formula ( C21H3O05 ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular weight is 362 . 47 and its CAS Registery Number is 50 - 23 - 7 .
The topical corticosteroids , including hydrocortisone , constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics - The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systematically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General - Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient - Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy category C - Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0350 NDC : 50090 - 0350 - 0 20 g in a TUBE / 1 in a CARTON STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 · www . perrigo . com Rev . 08 - 15 : 1F300 RC JX1 Hydrocortisone [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
