Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistnat sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Dimethicone , Isononyl isononanoate , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Cetearyl alcohol , Polyglyceryl - 3 methylglucose distearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Sorbitan stearate , Mica , Polysorbate - 20 , Alcohol denat . , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Ethylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Laureth - 7 , Retinyl palmitate , Sucrose cocoate , Dipropylene glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Xanthan gum , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , Lupinus albus seed extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , BHT , Tocopherol , Butylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopepetide , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77891 .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Description The No7 Protect and Perfect Skincare System is a light and silky skincare system containing our Advanced clinically proven serum , a renewing day cream and an intensively nourishing night cream .
This daily skincare regime helps prevent and reduce the first signs of premature aging .
How do I use it ?
Use as part of your daily skincare routine .
Smooth No7 Protect and Perfect Advanced Serum onto a clean face and neck with your finger tips .
In the morning , follow with No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream .
At night , follow your serum application with No7 Protect & Perfect Night Cream to help your skin recover from the day and smooth the appearance of fine lines while you sleep .
What should I use with these products ?
To complete your beauty regime use No7 Protect and Perfect Eye Cream , specially developed for fine lines around the delicate eye area .
Description Protect and Perfect Skincare System .
Supercharge your Protect and Perfect skincare regime with No7 Protect and Perfect Advanced Serum , clinically proven to reduce the appearance of fine lines .
No7 Protect and Perfect Advanced Serum .
Supercharge your skincare regime with this clinically proven serum .
No7 ' s highly acclaimed Protect and Perfect technology has been re - engineered to deliver even better anti - aging results .
Independently tested and proven to work .
This serum is powered by Matrixyl 3000 Plus T , a combination of the most powerful form of Matrixyl , plus a next generation peptide that work together to help restore more youthfu looking skin .
With our patented antioxidant complex and salicylic acid to help promote clearer , more radiant skin .
To use : Use morning and evening .
Smooth into face and neck befoe applying your Protect and Perfect Day and Night Creams .
No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream SPF 15 .
Smooth the appearance of fine lines and help delay new ones with this protecting and revitalising daytime formula .
The unique blend of ingredients providing a protective power of Broad Spectrum SPF15 gives your skin protection from the No1 cause of visible skin aging .
To use : Use in the morning after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Serum .
Massage in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 Protect and Perfect Night Cream A rich moisturising cream that helps to restore the skin overnight and reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles .
works while the skin is at rest to leave it feeling soft and smooth .
To use : Use just before bedtime , after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Advanced Serum .
Massge in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
Carton - image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
