1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tretinoin Gel is indicated for topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
Tretinoin Gel is a retinoid indicated for topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Tretinoin Gel should be applied once daily , before bedtime , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using a thin layer to cover the entire affected area .
Tretinoin Gel should be kept away from the eyes , the mouth , paranasal creases , and mucous membranes .
Application of excessive amounts of gel will not provide incremental efficacy .
Patients treated with Tretinoin Gel may use cosmetics , but the areas to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied .
When treating with Tretinoin Gel , caution should be exercised with the use of concomitant topical over - the - counter preparations , topical medications , medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , products that have strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime .
Particular caution should be exercised with acne preparations containing benzoyl peroxide , sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid .
Allow the effects of such preparations to subside before use of Tretinoin Gel has begun .
• • Apply a thin layer of Tretinoin Gel once daily , before bedtime , to skin where lesions occur .
Keep away from eyes , mouth , nasal creases , and mucous membranes .
( 2 ) • • Tretinoin Gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel , 0 . 05 % Each gram of Tretinoin Gel contains 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 05 % ) tretinoin in a translucent to opaque , pale yellow topical gel .
Gel , 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Tretinoin Gel should not be used on eczematous or sunburned skin due to potential for severe irritation .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Topical over - the - counter acne preparations , concomitant topical medications , medicated cleansers , topical products with alcohol or astringents : Use with caution , irritation may occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Avoid unprotected exposure to sunlight including sunlamps ( UV light ) when using Tretinoin Gel due to potential for increased photosensitization .
Use sunscreen of at least SPF 15 and protective clothing during exposure .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Avoid use of Tretinoin Gel with weather extremes , such as wind or cold due to potential for increased irritation .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Use Tretinoin Gel with caution if allergic to fish due to potential for allergenicity to fish protein .
Patients who develop pruritus or urticaria should contact their healthcare provider .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Skin Irritation The skin of certain individuals may become dry , red , or exfoliated while using Tretinoin Gel .
If the degree of irritation warrants , patients should be directed to temporarily reduce the amount or frequency of application of the medication , discontinue use temporarily , or discontinue use all together .
Efficacy at reduced frequencies of application has not been established .
If a reaction suggesting sensitivity occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Mild to moderate skin dryness may also be experienced ; if so , use of an appropriate moisturizer during the day may be helpful .
Tretinoin has been reported to cause severe irritation on eczematous or sunburned skin and should be used with caution in patients with these conditions .
To help limit skin irritation , patients must : • • wash the treated skin gently , using a mild , non - medicated soap , and pat it dry , • • avoid washing the treated skin too often and scrubbing the affected skin area , and • • avoid contact with the peels of limes .
5 . 2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Unprotected exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of Tretinoin Gel .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products of at least SPF 15 and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to tretinoin - treated skin .
5 . 3 Fish Allergies Tretinoin Gel contains soluble fish proteins and should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to fish .
Patients who develop pruritus or urticaria should contact their healthcare provider .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) with Tretinoin Gel are dry skin , peeling / scaling / flaking skin , skin burning sensation , and erythema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC at 1 - 800 - 636 - 7546 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under prescribing conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two randomized , controlled trials , 674 subjects received treatment for up to 12 weeks with Tretinoin Gel [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In these studies , 50 % of the subjects who were treated with Tretinoin Gel reported one or more adverse reactions ; 30 % of the subjects reported treatment - related adverse reactions .
In the vehicle group , 29 % of the 487 randomized subjects reported at least one adverse reaction ; 5 % of the subjects reported events that were treatment - related .
There were no serious , treatment - related adverse reactions reported by subjects in any of the treatment groups .
Selected adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects in the two trials combined are shown in Table 1 ( below ) .
Most skin - related adverse reactions first appear during the first two weeks of treatment with Tretinoin Gel , and the incidence rate for skin - related reactions peaks around the second and third week of treatment .
In some subjects , the skin - related adverse reactions persist throughout the treatment period .
Table 1 : Number of Subjects with Selected Adverse Reactions ( Occurring in at Least 1 % of Subjects ) Event Tretinoin Gel ( n = 674 ) Vehicle Gel ( n = 487 ) Dry Skin 109 ( 16 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) Peeling / Scaling / Flaking Skin 78 ( 12 % ) 7 ( 1 % ) Skin Burning Sensation 53 ( 8 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) Erythema 47 ( 7 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Pruritus 11 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Pain of Skin 7 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Sunburn 7 ( 1 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Tretinoin Gel .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Temporary hyper - or hypopigmentation has been reported with repeated application of tretinoin .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no well - controlled trials in pregnant women treated with Tretinoin Gel .
Tretinoin Gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Tretinoin Gel at doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 and 1 g / kg / day was tested for maternal and developmental toxicity in pregnant Sprague - Dawley rats by dermal application .
The dose of 1 g / kg / day was approximately 4 times the clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison .
Possible tretinoin - associated teratogenic effects ( craniofacial abnormalities ( hydrocephaly ) , asymmetrical thyroids , variations in ossification , and increased supernumerary ribs ) were noted in the fetuses of Tretinoin Gel treated animals .
These findings were not observed in control animals .
Other maternal and reproductive parameters in the Tretinoin Gel treated animals were not different from control .
For purposes of comparison of the animal exposure to human exposure , the clinical dose is defined as 2 g of Tretinoin Gel applied daily to a 50 kg person .
Oral tretinoin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats , mice , rabbits , hamsters and nonhuman primates .
Tretinoin was teratogenic in Wistar rats when given orally in doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
In the cynomolgus monkey , fetal malformations were reported for doses of 10 mg / kg / day , but none were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 80 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) , although increased skeletal variations were observed at all doses .
Dose - related increases in embryolethality and abortion also were reported .
Similar results have also been reported in pigtail macaques .
Topical tretinoin in a different formulation has generated equivocal results in animal teratogenicity tests .
There is evidence for teratogenicity ( shortened or kinked tail ) of topical tretinoin in Wistar rats at doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 times the clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison ) .
Anomalies ( humerus : short 13 % , bent 6 % , os parietal incompletely ossified 14 % ) have also been reported when 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 160 times the clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison ) was topically applied .
Supernumerary ribs have been a consistent finding in rats when dams were treated topically or orally with retinoids .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported with use of other topical tretinoin products .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to the fetus is not known .
Nonteratogenic effects on fetuses : Oral tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rats when administered in doses 20 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison .
Topical tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rabbits when administered in doses 8 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Tretinoin Gel is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
A total of 381 pediatric subjects ( aged 10 to 16 years ) treated with Tretinoin Gel were enrolled into the two clinical studies .
Across these two studies , comparable safety and efficacy were observed between pediatric and adult subjects .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Safety and effectiveness in a geriatric population have not been established .
Clinical studies of Tretinoin Gel did not include any subjects over age 65 to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % is a translucent to opaque , pale yellow gel containing 0 . 05 % tretinoin , by weight for topical administration .
Chemically , tretinoin is all - trans - retinoic acid , also known as ( all - E ) - 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 1 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ) - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - nonatetraenoic acid .
It is a member of the retinoid class of compounds , and a metabolite of Vitamin A . Tretinoin has a molecular weight of 300 . 44 , a molecular formula of C20H28O2 and the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg of tretinoin .
Other components of this formulation are benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , butylated hydroxytoluene , carbomer homopolymer Type C , ethylparaben , fish collagen hydrolyzates , glycerin , isobutylparaben , methylparaben , octoxynol 9 , phenoxyethanol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hyaluronate , and trolamine .
The contribution to efficacy of individual components of the vehicle has not been evaluated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tretinoin is a metabolite of Vitamin A that binds with high affinity to specific retinoic acid receptors located in both the cytosol and nucleus , but cutaneous levels of tretinoin in excess of physiologic concentrations occur following application of a tretinoin - containing topical drug product .
Although tretinoin activates three members of the retinoid acid ( RAR ) nuclear receptors ( RARα , RARβ , and RARγ ) which act to modify gene expression , subsequent protein synthesis , and epithelial cell growth and differentiation , it has not been established whether the clinical effects of tretinoin are mediated through activation of retinoic acid receptors , other mechanisms , or both .
Although the exact mode of action of tretinoin is unknown , current evidence suggests that topical tretinoin decreases cohesiveness of follicular epithelial cells with decreased microcomedo formation .
Additionally , tretinoin stimulates mitotic activity and increased turnover of follicular epithelial cells causing extrusion of the comedones .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In two ( 2 ) studies , the plasma levels of tretinoin and its major metabolites ( 13 - cis - retinoic acid and 4 - oxo - 13 - cis - retinoic acid ) were investigated in a total of 14 patients ( age : 13 – 25 years ) with severe acne , who applied 4 g ± 0 . 5 g ( range 3 . 5 g – 4 . 5 g ) of Tretinoin Gel once daily to face , back and chest , as compared to a mean of 0 . 71 g ( range of 0 . 07 – 3 . 71 g ) applied in the controlled clinical trials .
Blood samples were taken at baseline and immediately prior to treatment on days 1 , 5 , 10 and 14 .
On Day 14 , the final study day , samples also were taken 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 16 , and 24 hours , post - treatment .
The plasma concentrations of tretinoin and its metabolites could be measured ( LOQ = 0 . 5 ng / mL for all three analytes ) in all patients at all time points .
The range of plasma concentrations of tretinoin and its metabolites , 13 - cis - retinoic acid and all - trans - 4 - oxo - retinoic acid at baseline and after multiple once daily applications of Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % for 14 days are given in Table 2 ( below ) .
Although some patients had increased concentrations of tretinoin or its metabolites over baseline values , no consistent increase in these concentrations were observed across patients .
Table 2 : Concentrations of Active and Metabolites at Baseline and at Day 14 After Exposure to Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % Compound Baseline Concentration Range ( ng / mL ) Day 14 Concentration Range ( ng / mL ) Tretinoin 0 . 68 - 1 . 62 0 . 69 - 2 . 88 13 - cis - retinoic acid 0 . 67 - 1 . 79 0 . 51 - 2 . 26 4 - oxo - 13 - cis - retinoic acid 0 . 82 - 5 . 92 0 . 59 - 6 . 96 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 2 - year dermal mouse carcinogenicity study was initiated with topical administration of 0 . 005 % , 0 . 025 % and 0 . 05 % Tretinoin Gel .
Although no drug - related tumors were observed in surviving animals , the irritating nature of the drug product precluded daily dosing , confounding data interpretation and reducing the biological significance of these results .
Studies in hairless albino mice with a different formulation suggest that concurrent exposure to tretinoin may enhance the tumorigenic potential of carcinogenic doses of UVB and UVA light from a solar simulator .
This effect was confirmed in a later study in pigmented mice , and dark pigmentation did not overcome the enhancement of photocarcinogenesis by 0 . 05 % tretinoin .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should minimize exposure to sunlight or artificial ultraviolet irradiation sources .
The genotoxic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in an in vitro bacterial reversion test , an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes and an in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
All tests were negative .
In dermal fertility studies of another tretinoin formulation in rats , slight ( not statistically significant ) decreases in sperm count and motility were seen at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 3 mg / m2 , approximately 4 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) , and slight ( not statistically significant ) increases in the number and percent of nonviable embryos in females treated with 0 . 25 mg / kg / day and above ( 1 . 5 mg / m2 , approximately 2 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) were observed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Tretinoin Gel used once daily before bedtime for the treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris were assessed in two 12 - week prospective , multi - center , randomized , controlled trials .
Subjects in these two trials ranged from 10 to 65 years of age , were approximately 52 % female , 48 % male , and were 74 % Caucasian , 15 % Black or African American , 3 % Asian , and 8 % Other .
Efficacy results at Week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
Success on the 6 - point Global Severity Score is defined as a score of 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( very mild ) .
In Trial 2 , subjects were also required to have at least two grades reduction from baseline for success .
' Very mild ' acne is defined as : skin almost clear ; rare non - inflammatory lesions present , with rare non - inflamed papules ( papules may be hyperpigmented , though not pink - red , less than 4 lesions ) .
The database was not large enough to assess whether there were differences in effects in age , gender , or race subgroups .
Table 3 : Efficacy Results at Week 12 in Trials 1 and 2 Trial 1 Tretinoin Gel N = 375 Vehicle N = 185 Global Severity Score Success [ 1 ] 78 ( 21 % ) 23 ( 12 % ) Non - Inflammatory Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 50 . 7 52 . 4 Mean Absolute Reduction 21 . 8 10 . 3 Mean Percent Reduction 43 % 21 % Inflammatory Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 23 . 4 23 . 9 Mean Absolute Reduction 9 . 7 5 . 8 Mean Percent Reduction 41 % 26 % Total Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 74 . 1 76 . 3 Mean Absolute Reduction 31 . 4 16 . 1 Mean Percent Reduction 43 % 22 % Trial 2 Tretinoin Gel N = 299 Vehicle N = 302 Global Severity Score Success [ 2 ] 69 ( 23 % ) 42 ( 14 % ) Non - Inflammatory Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 51 . 9 52 . 7 Mean Absolute Reduction 18 . 7 10 . 8 Mean Percent Reduction 37 % 20 % Inflammatory Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 22 . 9 23 . 4 Mean Absolute Reduction 7 . 0 4 . 0 Mean Percent Reduction 30 % 17 % Total Facial Lesions Mean Baseline Count 74 . 8 76 . 1 Mean Absolute Reduction 25 . 7 14 . 7 Mean Percent Reduction 35 % 19 % [ 1 ] Success was defined as 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( very mild ) [ 2 ] Success was defined as 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( very mild ) with at least 2 grades reduction from baseline 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % is a translucent to opaque , pale yellow topical gel and available as : • • 20 g tubes ( NDC 62032 - 413 - 20 ) Storage and Handling : Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) Instruct patients to clean the affected areas with an appropriate cleanser before applying Tretinoin Gel .
Patients may use moisturizers that are noncomedogenic and should avoid products that could be drying or irritating .
Patients may also wear cosmetics while being treated with Tretinoin Gel ; however , they should be instructed to remove the cosmetics and clean the area thoroughly before applying Tretinoin Gel .
Warn patients of the drying and irritation effects often seen during treatment .
Continue use of the medication if these effects are tolerable .
Caution patients against application of Tretinoin Gel around the eyes , mouth , paranasal creases , and mucous membranes as the skin is especially prone to irritation .
Minimize exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps .
Recommend the use of sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided .
Rx only Distributed by : Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC Long Beach , CA 90806 All products / brand names , whether designated by notice or not ( ® / TM ) , are trademarks of Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC and / or its affiliates .
© 2021 Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC .
All rights reserved .
www . obagi . com 9376703 Patient Package Insert Patient Information Tretinoin Gel , 0 . 05 % For topical use Important information : Tretinoin Gel is for use on skin only .
Do not get Tretinoin Gel in your mouth , eyes , vagina , or the corners of your nose .
What is Tretinoin Gel ?
Tretinoin Gel is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat acne .
Acne is a condition in which the skin has blackheads , whiteheads , and other pimples .
It is not known if Tretinoin Gel is safe and effective in children under 10 years of age .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using Tretinoin Gel ?
Before using Tretinoin Gel , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • • are allergic to fish .
Tretinoin Gel contains fish proteins .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get hives or itching during treatment with Tretinoin Gel .
• • have a skin condition called eczema .
• • have a sunburn .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Tretinoin Gel will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Tretinoin Gel passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , herbal supplements , and any skin products that you use .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you use any other medicines to treat your acne , including medicated cleansers or soaps .
Using other topical acne products may increase the irritation of your skin when used with Tretinoin Gel .
How should I use Tretinoin Gel ?
• • Use Tretinoin Gel exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Before you apply Tretinoin Gel , gently wash the affected skin area with a mild , non - medicated soap .
Rinse and pat your skin dry .
• • Apply Tretinoin Gel 1 time a day before bedtime .
• • Apply a thin layer of Tretinoin Gel to cover the affected skin areas .
Gently rub Tretinoin Gel into your skin .
• • Do not use more Tretinoin Gel than you need to cover the affected area and do not apply Tretinoin Gel more than 1 time a day .
Using too much Tretinoin Gel may irritate or increase the irritation of your skin , and will not give faster or better results .
• • You may use moisturizers and cosmetics .
What should I avoid while using Tretinoin Gel ?
• • Avoid washing your skin too often and scrubbing the affected skin area .
• • You should avoid sunlamps , tanning beds , and ultraviolet light during treatment with Tretinoin Gel .
• • Minimize exposure to sunlight .
• • If you have to be in the sunlight or are sensitive to sunlight , use a sunscreen with a SPF ( sun protection factor ) of 15 or more and wear protective clothing , and a wide brimmed hat to cover the treated areas .
• • If you do get sunburned , stop using Tretinoin Gel until your skin has healed and is back to normal .
• • Cold weather and wind may irritate skin treated with Tretinoin Gel .
Skin treated with Tretinoin Gel may dry out or get wind burned more easily .
Talk to your healthcare provider about ways to manage skin irritation .
• • Avoid contact with the peels of limes .
What are the possible side effects of Tretinoin Gel ?
Tretinoin Gel may cause skin irritation , including : skin dryness , burning , redness , excessive flaking or peeling .
If you develop these symptoms , your healthcare provider may tell you to stop using Tretinoin Gel for a while , decrease the number of times you apply Tretinoin Gel , or completely stop treatment with Tretinoin Gel .
It is not known if Tretinoin Gel is effective when used less than 1 time a day .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the side effects possible with Tretinoin Gel .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Tretinoin Gel ?
• • Store Tretinoin Gel at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Protect from freezing .
Keep Tretinoin Gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Tretinoin Gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Tretinoin Gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Tretinoin Gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Tretinoin Gel that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients of Tretinoin Gel ?
Active ingredient : tretinoin Inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , butylated hydroxytoluene , carbomer homopolymer Type C , ethylparaben , fish collagen hydrolyzates , glycerin , isobutylparaben , methylparaben , octoxynol 9 , phenoxyethanol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hyaluronate , and trolamine .
Distributed by : Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC Long Beach , CA 90806 All products / brand names , whether designated by notice or not ( ® / TM ) , are trademarks of Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC and / or its affiliates .
© 2021 Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC .
All rights reserved .
www . obagi . com This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
9376703 Rev . 05 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 g Carton NDC 62032 - 413 - 20 Rx only Tretinoin Gel USP 0 . 05 % OBAGI ® Medical FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Net Wt .
0 . 7 oz .
( 20 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
