Active Ingredients Camphor 3 . 1 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose External Analgesic External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions .
Do not use ■ on irritated or damaged skin ■ on wounds ■ if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have ■ any concerns about using this product When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage tightly ■ do not apply heat to the area in the form of heating pads , hot water bottles , or lamps ( doing so increases the risk of serious burns ) ■ avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the patch Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ you feel actual pain or experience blistering or burning after application ( it is normal to feel a warming or cooling sensation ) ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Report any unexpected side effects from the use of this product to the FDA MedWatch Program .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ adults and children 2 years of age and older : remove the protective film from the patch .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
■ children under 2 years of age : consult your physician Other information ■ keep patches tightly closed in the zip - lock pouch ■ store at 15º to 30º C ( 59º to 86º F ) in a dry place away from sunlight Inactive ingredients Ocimum gratissimum leaf oil , butylated hydroxytoluene , cinnamon oil , saposhnikovia divaricata root , angelica dahurica root , ginger , lanolin , natural latex rubber , petrolatum , rosin , safflower , nepeta tenuifolia flowering top , and zinc oxide on an elastic cloth and covered with a protective paper film .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number EXTRA STRENGTH HUA TUO PAIN RELIEF PATCH NDC 55614 - 630 - 01 An effective herbal patch for the relief of aches and pains from muscles , strains , arthritis , backache , joints , bruises , sprains .
6 Patches Each Patch 7 x 10 cm ( 2 . 75 x 4 in ) Apply for 12 Hours [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
