Active ingredients Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • very sensitive skn or if you • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to ccur if you use aother topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , buring , itching , peeling or posible swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce daily application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor inactive ingredients carbomer , disodium EDTA , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , laureth - 4 , sodium hydroxide , water Meijer Medicated Acne Gel contains maximum strength benzoyl peroxide .
The micronized benzoyl peroxide formla goes to wrok immediately , releasing the medicine deep into the pore where pimples begin .
This product is not manufactured or distribyuted by Johnson & Johnson Corporation , owners of the registered trademark of Clean & Clear and Persa - Gel 10 Made in the USA with US and imported parts .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com principal display panel Meijer Compare to CLEAN & CLEAR PERSA - GEL 10 * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Medicated Acne Gel deposits acne medication where pimples start 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Acne Medication NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
