WARNING – HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS WITH INTRAVENOUS AND INTRAMUSCULAR USE Fatal hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred during and immediately after intravenous and intramuscular injection of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
Reactions have occurred despite dilution to avoid rapid intravenous infusion and upon first dose .
Avoid the intravenous and intramuscular routes of administration unless the subcutaneous route is not feasible and the serious risk is justified [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING – HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS WITH INTRAVENOUS AND INTRAMUSCULAR USE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Fatal hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred during and immediately after INTRAVENOUS and INTRAMUSCULAR injection of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
Reactions have occurred despite dilution to avoid rapid infusion and upon first and subsequent doses .
Avoid the intravenous and intramuscular routes of administration unless the subcutaneous route is not feasible and the serious risk is justified ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is a vitamin K replacement indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity .
• Anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia deficiency caused by coumarin or indane - dione derivatives ; ( 1 . 1 ) • Hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; ( 1 . 1 ) • Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; ( 1 . 1 ) • Other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where is it definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
( 1 . 1 ) Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K - deficiency bleeding in neonates .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity : • anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; • other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
1 . 2 Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K - Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K - deficiency bleeding in neonates .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP by the subcutaneous route , whenever possible .
( 2 . 1 ) • When intravenous administration is unavoidable , inject the drug very slowly , not exceeding 1 mg per minute .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Considerations Whenever possible , administer Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP by the subcutaneous route [ see Boxed Warning ] .
When intravenous administration is unavoidable , inject the drug very slowly , not exceeding 1 mg per minute [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor international normalized ratio ( INR ) regularly and as clinical conditions indicate .
Use the lowest effective dose of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
The coagulant effects of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP are not immediate ; improvement of INR may take 1 - 8 hours .
Interim use of whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe .
Whenever possible , administer benzyl alcohol - free formulations in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
When Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and INR should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Coagulation Disorders from Vitamin K Deficiency of Interference The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is based on whether the hypoprothrombinemia is anticoagulant - induced ( e . g . , due to coumarin or indanedione derivatives ) or non - anticoagulant - induced ( e . g . , due to antibiotics ; salicylates or other drugs ; factors limiting absorption or synthesis ) as follows : • Anticoagulant - Induced Hypoprothrombinemia : Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP 2 . 5 mg to 10 mg or more subcutaneously , intramuscularly , or intravenously .
Up to 25 mg to 50 mg may be administered as a single dose .
Repeated large doses of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP are not warranted in liver disease if the initial response is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
• Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes ( Non - Anticoagulation - Induced Hypoprothrombinemia ) : Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP 2 . 5 mg to 25 mg or more intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously .
Up to 50 mg may be administered as a single dose .
Evaluate INR after 6 - 8 hours , and repeat dose if INR remains prolonged .
Modify subsequent dosage ( amount and frequency ) based on the INR or clinical condition .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Prophylaxis of Vitamin K - Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg within one hour of birth for a single dose .
Treatment of Vitamin K Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is 1 mg given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Consider higher doses if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants .
A failure to respond ( shortening of the INR in 2 to 4 hours ) may indicate another diagnosis or coagulation disorder .
2 . 4 Directions for Dilution Dilute Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection .
Avoid use of other diluents that may contain benzyl alcohol , which can cause serious toxicity in newborns or low birth weight infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
When diluted , start administration of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP immediately after dilution .
Discard unused portions of diluted solution as well as unused contents of the vial .
Protect Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP from light at all times .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 1 mg / 0 . 5 mL single - dose vial and a SAF - T - Jet ® vial injector .
Injection : 1 mg / 0 . 5 mL single - dose vial and a SAF - T - Jet ® vial injector .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to phytonadione or any other component of this medication [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions in Infants due to Benzyl Alcohol Preservative : Use benzyl alcohol - free formulations in neonates and infants , if available .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cutaneous Reactions : May occur with parenteral use .
Discontinue drug and manage medically .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Fatal and severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred with intravenous or intramuscular administration of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
Reactions have occurred despite dilution to avoid rapid intravenous infusion and upon first dose .
These reactions have included shock , cardiorespiratory arrest , flushing , diaphoresis , chest pain , tachycardia , cyanosis , weakness , and dyspnea .
Administer Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP subcutaneously whenever feasible .
Avoid the intravenous and intramuscular routes of administration unless the subcutaneous route is not feasible and the serious risk is justified [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Risk of Serious Adverse Reaction in Infants due to Benzyl Alcohol Preservative Use benzyl alcohol - free formulations in neonates and infants , if available .
Serious and fatal adverse reactions including “ gasping syndrome ” can occur in neonates and infants treated with benzyl alcohol - preserved drugs , including Phytonadione .
The “ gasping syndrome ” is characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , and gasping respirations .
When prescribing Phytonadione in infants , consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources including Phytonadione and other drugs containing benzyl alcohol .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is not known [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 and 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cutaneous Reactions Parenteral administration of vitamin K replacements ( including Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) may cause cutaneous reactions .
Reactions have included eczematous reactions , scleroderma - like patches , urticaria , and delayed - type hypersensitivity reactions .
Time of onset ranged from 1 day to a year after parenteral administration .
Discontinue Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP for skin reactions and institute medical management .
Warnings and Precautions , Cutaneous Reactions ( 5 . 3 ) 04 / 2018 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cutaneous Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are cyanosis , diaphoresis , dizziness , dysgeusia , dyspnea , flushing , hypotension and tachycardia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 423 - 4136 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 3 Clinical Trials and Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders : Tachycardia , hypotension .
General disorders and administration site conditions : Generalized flushing ; pain , swelling , and tenderness at injection site .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hyperbilirubinemia Immune System Disorders : Fatal hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic reactions .
Neurologic : Dysgeusia , dizziness .
Pulmonary : Dyspnea .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Erythema , pruritic plaques , scleroderma - like lesions , erythema perstans .
Vascular : Cyanosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulants Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP may induce temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants , especially when larger doses of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP are used .
Should this occur , higher doses of anticoagulant therapy may be needed when resuming anticoagulant therapy , or a change in therapy to a different class of anticoagulant may be necessary ( i . e . , heparin sodium ) .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP does not affect the anticoagulant action of heparin .
Anticoagulants : May induce temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : If available , use the preservative - free formulation in pregnant women .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : If available , use the preservative - free formulation in lactating women .
( 8 . 2 ) • Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP in pediatric patients from 6 months to 17 years have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The preservative benzyl alcohol can cause serious adverse events and death when administered intravenously to neonates and infants .
If Phytonadione is needed during pregnancy , consider using a benzyl alcohol - free formulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Published studies with the use of phytonadione during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with phytonadione and adverse developmental outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are maternal and fetal risks associated with vitamin K deficiency during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phytonadione .
The estimated background risk for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Pregnant women with vitamin K deficiency hypoprothrombinemia may be at an increased risk for bleeding diatheses during pregnancy and hemorrhagic events at delivery .
Subclinical maternal vitamin K deficiency during pregnancy has been implicated in rare cases of fetal intracranial hemorrhage .
Data Human Data Phytonadione has been measured in cord blood of infants whose mothers were treated with phytonadione during pregnancy in concentrations lower than seen in maternal plasma .
Administration of vitamin K1 to pregnant women shortly before delivery increased both maternal and cord blood concentrations .
Published data do not report a clear association with phytonadione and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitively establish the absence of any risk because of methodologic limitations including small sample size and lack of blinding .
Animal Data In pregnant rats receiving vitamin K1 orally , fetal plasma and liver concentrations increased following administration , supporting placental transfer .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary If available , preservative - free Phytonadione is recommended when Phytonadione is needed during lactation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Phytonadione is present in breastmilk .
There are no data on the effects of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP on the breastfed child or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the clinical need for Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K deficiency have been established in neonates .
Use of phytonadione injection for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K deficiency is based on published clinical studies .
Serious adverse reactions including fatal reactions and the “ gasping syndrome ” occurred in premature neonates and infants in the intensive care unit who received drugs containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
In these cases , benzyl alcohol dosages of 99 to 234 mg / kg / day produced high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites in the blood and urine ( blood levels of benzyl alcohol were 0 . 61 to 1 . 378 mmol / L ) .
Additional adverse reactions included gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Preterm , low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop these reactions because they may be less able to metabolize benzyl alcohol .
When prescribing Phytonadione in infants consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources including Phytonadione and other drugs containing benzyl alcohol .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is not known [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Whenever possible , use preservative - free phytonadione formulations in neonates .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events and death in pediatric patients .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity .
10 OVERDOSAGE Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in newborns , particularly in premature infants , may result from Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin K replacement , which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , odorless or nearly odorless liquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C31H46O2 and its molecular structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP injection is a yellow , sterile , aqueous colloidal solution of vitamin K1 , with a pH of 3 . 5 to 7 . 0 , available for injection by the intravenous , intramuscular , and subcutaneous routes .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is available in 1 mg ( 1 mg / 0 . 5 mL ) single - dose vials .
Each 0 . 5 mL of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP contains the following inactive ingredients : 10 mg polysorbate 80 , 10 . 4 mg propylene glycol , 0 . 17 mg sodium acetate anhydrous , and 0 . 00002 mL glacial acetic acid .
Additional glacial acetic acid or sodium acetate anhydrous may have been added to adjust pH to meet USP limits of 3 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
The air above the liquid in the individual containers has been displaced by flushing with nitrogen during the filling operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP aqueous colloidal solution of vitamin K1 for parenteral injection , possesses the same type and degree of activity as does naturally - occurring vitamin K , which is necessary for the production via the liver of active prothrombin ( factor II ) , proconvertin ( factor VII ) , plasma thromboplastin component ( factor IX ) , and Stuart factor ( factor X ) .
Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the posttranslational carboxylation of multiple , specific , peptide - bound glutamic acid residues in inactive hepatic precursors of factors II , VII , IX , and X .
The resulting gamma - carboxy - glutamic acid residues convert the precursors into active coagulation factors that are subsequently secreted by liver cells into the blood .
In normal animals and humans , phytonadione is virtually devoid of activity .
However , in animals and humans deficient in vitamin K , the pharmacological action of vitamin K is related to its normal physiological function , that is , to promote the hepatic biosynthesis of vitamin K dependent clotting factors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The action of the aqueous dispersion , when administered intravenously , is generally detectable within an hour or two and hemorrhage is usually controlled within 3 to 6 hours .
A normal INR may often be obtained in 12 to 14 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Phytonadione is readily absorbed following intramuscular administration .
Distribution : After absorption , phytonadione is initially concentrated in the liver , but the concentration declines rapidly .
Very little vitamin K accumulates in tissues .
Elimination : Little is known about the metabolic fate of vitamin K . Almost no free unmetabolized vitamin K appears in bile or urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY SECTION 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity , genotoxicity or impairment of fertility have not been conducted with phytonadione .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is a yellow , sterile , aqueous colloidal solution and is supplied in unit use packages containing one single - dose vial and a SAF - T - Jet ® vial injector , 27 G . x ½ ” needle .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion USP , 1 mg in 0 . 5 mL Stock No . 1240 NDC 76329 - 1240 - 1 10 individual cartons shrink wrapped as a group of 10 cartons .
Syringe Assembly Directions : See User Guide USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not remove from carton or assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP from light .
Store container in closed original carton until contents have been used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform the patient of the following important risks of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP : Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise the patient and caregivers to immediately report signs of hypersensitivity after receiving Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk of Gasping Syndrome Due to Benzyl Alcohol Advise the patient and caregivers of the risk of gasping syndrome associated with the use of products that contain benzyl alcohol ( including Phytonadione ) in neonates , infants , and pregnant women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cutaneous Reactions Advise the patient and caregivers to report the occurrence of new rashes after receiving Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP .
These reactions may be delayed for up to a year after treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Rx Only INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED So .
El Monte , CA 91733 U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company © INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED 2018 Rev . 4 - 18 6912400 N PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Carton SAF - T - JET ® NDC 76329 - 1240 - 1 STOCK NO . 1240 Rx Only SAF - T - JET ® 27 G . X 1 / 2 " NEEDLE PHYTONADIONE INJECTABLE EMULSION USP NEONATAL CONCENTRATION 1 mg per 0 . 5 mL Single dose .
Discard unused portion .
FOR INTRAMUSCULAR OR SUBCUTANEOUS USE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : User Guide IMS Saf - T - Jet ® Safety Needle USER GUIDE NOTE : USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use 1 Ensure shield is in the UP position ( see inset ) , then remove protective caps from vial and injector .
2 Align vial such that the injector needle is centered on the stopper .
Thread vial into injection 3 half turns to ensure the needle penetrates stopper .
Do not push the injector needle into stopper .
3 a ) Flip shield down .
b ) Remove needle cover PULLING STRAIGHT UP ( DO NOT TWIST ) .
Expel air .
4 Administer injection following the established aseptic technique .
5 Position shield in preparation for device activation : Using a one - handed technique , push the tab forward with your finger or thumb so that the shield is less than 90 degrees from the needle .
NOTE : Keep your finger or thumb behind the tab at all times .
6 Activate shield : Position the shield approximately 45 degrees to flat surface .
Press down with a GENTLE , QUICK MOTION until a distinct AUDIBLE CLICK is heard .
Note : Audible click may not be heard on small needle sizes : visual confirmation is required .
7 VISUALLY CONFIRM that needle is fully engaged under lock .
8 Following activation of the needle shield , immediately discard the unit into an approved sharps container .
For additional questions or to request a traning video , contact Customer Service at ( 800 ) 423 - 4136 .
7012400 E 9 - 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
