1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ceftriaxone for Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Ceftriaxone for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Ceftriaxone for Injection is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible bacteria : Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria : Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1 . 1 ) ; Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1 . 2 ) ; Complicated and Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections ( 1 . 3 ) ; Pelvic Inflammatory Disease ( 1 . 4 ) ; Bacterial Septicemia ( 1 . 5 ) ; Bone and Joint infections ( 1 . 6 ) ; Intra - abdominal Infections ( 1 . 7 ) ; Meningitis ( 1 . 8 ) ; and Surgical Prophylaxis ( 1 . 9 ) .
1 . 1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Lower respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis or Serratia marcescens .
1 . 2 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Viridans group streptococci , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter cloacae , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii [ 1 ] , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus , Bacteroides fragilis null or Peptostreptococcus species .
[ 1 ] The efficacy for these organisms in this organ system were studied in fewer than ten infections .
1 . 3 Complicated and Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Complicated and uncomplicated urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris , Morganella morganii or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
1 . 4 Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
Ceftriaxone sodium , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and Chlamydia trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate antichlamydial coverage should be added .
1 . 5 Bacterial Septicemia Bacterial septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
1 . 6 Bone and Joint Infections Bone and joint infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella pneumoniae or Enterobacter species .
1 . 7 Intra - abdominal Infections Intra - abdominal infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Bacteroides fragilis , Clostridium species or Peptostreptococcus species .
1 . 8 Meningitis Meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Neisseria meningitidis or Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Ceftriaxone sodium has also been used successfully in a limited number of cases of meningitis and shunt infection caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis and Escherichia coli ; however , the efficacy for these organisms in this organ system were studied in fewer than ten infections .
1 . 9 Surgical Prophylaxis The preoperative administration of a single 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone may reduce the incidence of postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal or abdominal hysterectomy or cholecystectomy for chronic calculous cholecystitis in high - risk patients , such as those over 70 years of age , with acute cholecystitis not requiring therapeutic antimicrobials , obstructive jaundice or common duct bile stones ) and in surgical patients for whom infection at the operative site would present serious risk ( e . g . , during coronary artery bypass surgery ) .
Although ceftriaxone sodium has been shown to have been as effective as cefazolin in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery , no placebo - controlled trials have been conducted to evaluate any cephalosporin antibacterial in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of Ceftriaxone .
THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION WITH STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 mg per mL AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 mL OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION .
THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION USE THIS FORMULATION OF CEFTRIAXONE ONLY IN PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE A 1 GRAM DOSE .
For intravenous use only over approximately 30 minutes .
( 2 ) THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone ( 2 . 1 ) .
Recommended Dosing Schedule for Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Total Daily Dose Usual Adult Dose 1 to 2 grams Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 4 grams [ 1 ] Surgical prophylaxis 1 gram I . V . once ½ to 2 hours before surgery Meningitis 100 mg per kg Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 4 grams null Skin and Skin Structure Infections 50 mg per kg to 75 mg per kg Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 2 grams Serious Infections other than Meningitis 50 mg per kg to 75 mg per kg Every 12 hours Should not exceed 2 grams [ 1 ] Patients with hepatic impairment and significant renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams per day of ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Adult Population Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of Ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone for Injection should be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , USP to a concentration of 100 mg per mL and further diluted in 50 mL of a compatible solution .
The recommended adult dosages are outlined in Table 1 .
Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone should be administered intravenously ( I . V . ) over approximately 30 minutes .
The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 14 days ; in complicated infections , longer therapy may be required .
When treating infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , therapy should be continued for at least 10 days .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosing Schedule for Ceftriaxone for Injection , USPSite and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Total Daily Dose Usual Adult Dose 1 gram to 2 grams Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 4 grams * Surgical prophylaxis 1 gram I . V . once ½ to 2 hours before surgery Skin and Skin Structure Infections 50 to 75 mg per kg Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 2 grams Meningitis 100 mg per kg Once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours Should not exceed 4 grams * Serious Infections other than Meningitis 50 to 75 mg per kg Every 12 hours Should not exceed 2 grams * Patients with hepatic impairment and significant renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams per day of ceftriaxone .
** This formulation of Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the adult 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] 2 . 3 Preparation for Use of Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bags , SmartPak ® Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® bag should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
Directions for Proper Use of a Pharmacy Bulk Package • NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the hospital pharmacy admixture service only in a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Using aseptic technique , the container closure may be penetrated only one time after reconstitution using a suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage .
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 HOURS from initial reconstitution port closure entry is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations .
This time limit should begin with the introduction of the solvent or diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Discard any unused portion after 4 HOURS .
This pharmacy bulk package is not intended to be dispensed as a unit • PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION : DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT , IF THE DRY POWDER IS DARK YELLOW OR BROWN , IF THE SEALS ARE NOT INTACT , OR IF THERE IS ANY OTHER DAMAGE TO THE BAG .
IN SUCH CASES , DISCARD THE BAG IMMEDIATELY .
• After initial reconstitution port entry , use entire contents of the Pharmacy Bulk Package promptly .
Any unused portion must be discarded after 4 HOURS .
• Gather the following items prior to the reconstitution of the product : Appropriate number of bags of Sterile Water for Injection and , depending upon the method of filling , appropriate sterile tubing and adapters .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Use only if solution is clear .
• Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute Ceftriaxone for Injection SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package or to further dilute a reconstituted solution for intravenous administration .
Particulate formation can result .
INSTRUCTION FOR RECONSTITUTION OF THE PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE BAG SmartPak ® The entire contents of the bag and the preparation process ( reconstitution and dilution ) should be completed within 4 hours of initial entry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Document the date and time reconstitution starts in the designated place on the container label .
The entire contents of the bag must be used within 4 hours from the time of initial entry .
• Remove the translucent unthreaded cap from the reconstitution ( smaller ) port and discard it .
• Reconstitute the powder through the reconstitution ( smaller ) port , using Sterile Water for Injection according to the Table 2 below : Table 2 : Reconstitution Table SmartPak ® Bag Size Amount of Sterile Water [ 1 ] Approximate Concentration 100 grams 950 mL 100 mg / mL ( 1 g / 10 mL ) [ 1 ] Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute or further dilute reconstituted ceftriaxone because a precipitate can form .
STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION IS THE ONLY RECOMMENDED DILUENT FOR RECONSTITUTION .
[ see Warnings and Precautions [ ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• After reconstitution is complete , remove the transfer needle from the reconstitution port .
• Place the bag on a flat surface of a laminar flow hood and mix for at least 15 minutes by rocking gently from side to side .
CAUTION : To avoid possible leakage caused by the heavy weight of the added water , do not shake vigorously or pull strongly on the bag .
• When foam dissipates , visually inspect the bag to verify the solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow and free of particulate matter .
DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT .
• Unscrew the clear threaded cap from the transfer ( larger ) port and discard it .
Attach sterile tubing and filling adapter unit to the transfer port .
• Reconstituted solution can now be transferred using the transfer port and the filling adapter .
It should be noted that the spike placed into the transfer port of the Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® is NEVER removed during this procedure and that the reconstitution port is self - sealing .
Dilution • Hang the bag from two eyelets .
• Following reconstitution , transfer 10 mL of the reconstituted solution into transfusion bags , each containing 50 mL of one of the compatible solutions below .
Compatible solutions for dilution are the following : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • Dilution should be completed within the 4 hour preparation process .
• When diluted according to the instructions above , ceftriaxone is stable for 48 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Important Administration Instructions • Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute Ceftriaxone for Injection SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package or to further dilute a reconstituted solution for intravenous administration .
Particulate formation can result .
Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can also occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same intravenous administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions , such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Prior to administration , parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit .
• Administer diluted ceftriaxone solutions intravenously over approximately 30 minutes .
• After the indicated stability times , unused portions of solutions should be discarded .
• Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone in admixtures .
When any of these drugs are to be administered concomitantly with ceftriaxone by intermittent intravenous infusion , it is recommended that they be given sequentially with thorough flushing of the intravenous lines with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose in Water ( D5W ) between the administrations .
• Ceftriaxone for Injection should not be physically mixed with or piggybacked into solutions containing other antimicrobial drugs due to possible incompatibility [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• There have been no reports of an interaction between ceftriaxone and oral calcium - containing products or interaction between intramuscular ceftriaxone and calcium - containing products ( intravenous or oral ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 100 grams Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION • Pharmacy Bulk Package bags , 100 grams ( 3 ) THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Anaphylaxis to ceftriaxone or other cephalosporin class antibacterials , penicillins or other beta - lactam antibacterials ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Anaphylaxis to Ceftriaxone or the Cephalosporin Class of Antibacterials , Penicillins or Other Beta - Lactam Antibacterials Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is contraindicated in patients who have a history of anaphylaxis to ceftriaxone or the cephalosporin class of antibacterials , penicillins , or other beta - lactam antibacterials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Include anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions .
Cross hypersensitivity may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue the drug ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Interaction with Calcium - containing products : Precipitation can occur .
Do not administer simultaneously with calcium - containing I . V . solutions ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Neurological adverse reactions : Serioous neurological adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing surveillance .
If serious adverse reactions occur , discontinue the drug and institute appropriate supportive measures .
( 5 . 3 ) • Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea : May range from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Hemolytic Anemia : Severe cases of hemolytic anemia , including fatalities in adults and children , have been reported .
If anemia is diagnosed , discontinue the drug until the etiology is determined .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions to Ceftriaxone , Cephalosporins , Penicillins or Other Drugs Serious , occasionally fatal , hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported with ceftriaxone .
Before therapy with Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous immediate hypersensitivity reactions to ceftriaxone , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other drugs .
Exercise caution if this product is to be given to penicillin - sensitive patients because cross - hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibacterials has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP occurs , discontinue the drug .
Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require treatment with epinephrine and other emergency measures including oxygen , corticosteroids , intravenous fluids , intravenous antihistamines , pressor amines , and airway management , as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Interaction with Calcium - Containing Products Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same intravenous administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions , such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or D5W .
In vitro studies using adult and neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood demonstrated that neonates have an increased risk of precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] 5 . 3 Neurological Adverse Reactions Serious neurological adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing surveillance with ceftriaxone use .
These reactions include encephalopathy ( disturbances of consciousness including somnolence , lethargy , and confusion ) , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Some cases occurred in patients with severe renal impairment who did not receive appropriate dosage adjustment .
However , in other cases , neurological adverse reactions occurred in patients receiving an appropriate dosage adjustment .
The neurological adverse reactions were reversible and resolved after discontinuation .
If neurological adverse reactions associate with Ceftriaxone for Injection therapy occur , discontinue Ceftriaxone for Injection and institute appropriate supportive measures .
Make appropriate dosage adjustments in patients with severe renal impairment .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridium difficile - associated Diahrrhea Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including ceftriaxone , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary , since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 5 Hemolytic Anemia An immune mediated hemolytic anemia has been observed in patients receiving cephalosporin class antibacterials including ceftriaxone .
Severe cases of hemolytic anemia , including fatalities , have been reported during treatment in both adults and children .
If a patient develops anemia while on Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , the diagnosis of a cephalosporin - associated anemia should be considered and Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP stopped until the etiology is determined .
5 . 6 Gallbladder Sonogram Abnormalities There have been reports of sonographic abnormalities in the gallbladder of patients treated with ceftriaxone sodium ; some of these patients also had symptoms of gallbladder disease .
These abnormalities appear on sonography as an echo without acoustical shadowing suggesting sludge or as an echo with acoustical shadowing , which may be misinterpreted as gallstones .
The chemical nature of the sonographically detected material has been determined to be predominantly a ceftriaxone - calcium salt .
The condition appears to be transient and reversible upon discontinuation of ceftriaxone sodium and institution of conservative management .
Therefore , ceftriaxone should be discontinued in patients who develop signs and symptoms suggestive of gallbladder disease and / or the sonographic findings described above .
5 . 7 Patients with Hepatic and Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment : In patients with both hepatic and significant renal disease , Ceftriaxone for Injection dosage should not exceed 2 grams daily .
Renal Impairment : This formulation of Ceftriaxone for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bags SmartPak ® should not be used in renally impaired patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
In patients with both hepatic impairment and significant renal disease , Ceftriaxone for Injection dosage should not exceed 2 grams per day .
5 . 8 Pancreatitis Cases of pancreatitis , possibly secondary to biliary obstruction , have been reported in patients treated with ceftriaxone sodium .
Most patients presented with risk factors for biliary stasis and biliary sludge ( preceding major therapy , severe illness , total parenteral nutrition ) .
A cofactor role of ceftriaxone - related biliary precipitation cannot be ruled out .
5 . 9 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
As with other antibacterial drugs , use of Ceftriaxone for Injection may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 10 Alterations in Prothrombin Time Alterations in prothrombin times have occurred in patients treated with ceftriaxone sodium .
Patients with impaired vitamin K synthesis or low vitamin K stores ( e . g . , chronic hepatic disease and malnutrition ) may require monitoring of prothrombin time during Ceftriaxone for Injection treatment .
Vitamin K administration ( 10 mg weekly ) may be necessary if the prothrombin time is prolonged before or during therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to ceftriaxone are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions occurring in > 2 % of patients receiving ceftriaxone include diarrhea , eosinophilia , thrombocytosis , leukopenia , and elevations of SGOT and SGPT .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Samson Medical Technologies , L . L . C . at 1 - 877 - 418 - 3600 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following reactions occurred in ≤ 6 % of the patients : • Local reactions – pain , induration , tenderness , and phlebitis after intravenous administration .
• Hypersensitivity – rash , pruritus , fever or chills .
• Hematologic – eosinophilia , thrombocytosis , leukopenia , anemia , hemolytic anemia , neutropenia , lymphopenia , thrombocytopenia , and prolongation of the prothrombin time .
• Gastrointestinal – diarrhea , nausea or vomiting , and dysgeusia .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Hepatic – elevations of SGOT , SGPT , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin .
• Renal – elevations of the BUN , creatinine , and the presence of casts in the urine .
• Central Nervous System – headache or dizziness .
• Genitourinary – moniliasis or vaginitis .
• Miscellaneous – diaphoresis and flushing .
• Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates – Cases of fatal reactions with ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates in lung and kidneys in neonates have been described .
In some cases the infusion lines and times of administration of ceftriaxone and calcium - containing solutions differed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Other observed adverse reactions - abdominal pain , agranulocytosis , allergic pneumonitis , anaphylaxis , basophilia , biliary lithiasis , bronchospasm , colitis , dyspepsia , epistaxis , flatulence , gallbladder sludge , glycosuria , hematuria , jaundice , leukocytosis , lymphocytosis , monocytosis , nephrolithiasis , palpitations , a decrease in the prothrombin time , renal precipitations , seizures , and serum sickness .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of ceftriaxone .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to readily estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Neurologic - Encephalopathy , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepti us [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Gastrointestinal – stomatitis and glossitis • Genitourinary – oliguria • Dermatologic – exanthema , allergic dermatitis , urticaria , edema Cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome or Lyell ’ s syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported .
Anaphylaxis ( including anaphylactic shock , transient leukopenia , neutropenia , agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia ) has been reported .
6 . 3 Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibacterials : • Adverse Reactions : Allergic reactions , drug fever , serum sickness - like reaction , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , reversible hyperactivity , hypertonia , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , and superinfection .
• Altered Laboratory Tests : Positive direct Coombs ’ test , false - positive test for urinary glucose , and elevated LDH .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides and fluconazole are physically incompatible .
( 7 . 1 ) • Calcium - containing products : precipitation can occur .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Vancomycin , Amsacrine , Aminoglycosides , and Fluconazole Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides , and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone in admixtures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Calcium - containing Products Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when Ceftriaxone for Injection is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same intravenous administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and calcium - containing solutions can be administered sequentially [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic impairment : Patients with both hepatic and renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams of ceftriaxone per day .
( 5 . 7 ) • Renal Impairment : This formulation of Ceftriaxone for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in renally impaired patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
Patients with both hepatic and renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams of ceftriaxone per day .
( 5 . 7 ) • Pediatric Patients : This formulation of Ceftriaxone for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the 1 gram adult dose of ceftriaxone .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproductive studies have been performed in mice , rats , and primates at intravenous doses of 625 , 586 , and 84 mg / kg / day , respectively without evidence of embryotoxicity , fetotoxicity , or teratogenicity .
These doses are approximately 1 . 5 , 2 . 8 , and 0 . 8 times the recommended clinical dose of 2 grams / day based on body surface area comparisons .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Ceftriaxone was tested in a Segment III ( pre - postnatal ) study in rats at intravenous doses of up to 586 mg / kg / day approximately 2 . 8 times ( mg / m2 comparison ) the recommended daily dose of 2 grams / day .
No adverse effects were noted on various reproductive parameters during gestation and lactation , including postnatal growth , functional behavior , and reproductive ability of the offspring .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ceftriaxone is excreted in human breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when Ceftriaxone for Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the adult 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of ceftriaxone sodium , 32 % were 60 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Ceftriaxone is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
The pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in geriatric patients compared to healthy adult subjects , and dosage adjustments are not necessary for geriatric patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 grams per day [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Ceftriaxone overdosage has been reported in patients with severe renal impairment .
Reactions have included neurological outcomes , including encephalopathy , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus .
In the event of overdosage discontinue Ceftriaxone for Injection therapy and provide general supportive treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In the case of overdosage , drug concentration would not be reduced by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment of overdosage should be symptomatic .
11 DESCRIPTION Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Ceftriaxone for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP , is a sterile , semisynthetic , broad - spectrum cephalosporin antibacterial for intravenous administration .
Ceftriaxone sodium is ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - Amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) glyoxylamido ] - 8 - oxo - 3 - [ [ ( 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - as - triazin - 3 - yl ) thio ] methyl ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid , 72 - ( Z ) - ( O - methyloxime ) , disodium salt , sesquaterhydrate .
The chemical formula of ceftriaxone sodium is C18H16N8Na2O7S3 • 3 . 5H2O .
It has a calculated molecular weight of 661 . 60 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ceftriaxone sodium is a white to yellowish - orange crystalline powder , which is readily soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol and very slightly soluble in ethanol .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution is approximately 6 . 7 .
The color of ceftriaxone sodium solutions ranges from light yellow to amber , depending on the length of storage and concentration .
Each Pharmacy Bulk Package contains approximately 83 mg ( 3 . 6 mEq ) of sodium per 1 gram of ceftriaxone activity .
Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is supplied in 100 grams SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Packages bags equivalent .
Each SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package bag contains ceftriaxone sodium , USP equivalent to 100 grams of ceftriaxone .
BEFORE ADMINISTRATION , THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION USING STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 mg per mL AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 mL OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION AND INFUSED INTRAVENOUSLY OVER 30 MINUTES .
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT INTENDED TO BE USED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS AND RENALLY IMPAIRED PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE LESS THAN A 1 GRAM DOSE .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ceftriaxone is an antibacterial drug .
[ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Average plasma concentrations of ceftriaxone following a single 30 - minute intravenous ( I . V . ) infusion of a 0 . 5 , 1 or 2 g dose in healthy subjects are presented in Table 3 .
Multiple intravenous doses ranging from 0 . 5 to 2 g at 12 - to 24 - hour intervals resulted in 15 % to 36 % accumulation of ceftriaxone above single dose values .
TABLE 3 : Ceftriaxone Plasma Concentrations After Single Dose Administration Dose / Route Average Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 0 . 5 hr 1 hr 2 hr 4 hr 6 hr 8 hr 12 hr 16 hr 24 hr 0 . 5 gram I . V . [ 1 ] 82 59 48 37 29 23 15 10 5 1 gram I . V . null 151 111 88 67 53 43 28 18 9 2 grams I . V . null 257 192 154 117 89 74 46 31 15 [ 1 ] I . V . doses were infused at a constant rate over 30 minutes .
Over a 0 . 15 to 3 g dose range in healthy adult subjects , the mean elimination half - life ranged from 5 . 8 to 8 . 7 hours , plasma clearance ranged from 0 . 58 to 1 . 45 L / hour , and renal clearance ranged from 0 . 32 to 0 . 73 L / hour .
Distribution Ceftriaxone is reversibly bound to human plasma proteins and the binding of ceftriaxone decreases with increasing concentration from a value of 95 % at plasma concentrations less than 25 mcg / mL to 85 % at plasma concentration of 300 mcg / mL .
Over a 0 . 15 to 3 g dose range in healthy adult subjects , the apparent volume of distribution ranged from 5 . 8 to 13 . 5 L . Ceftriaxone crosses the blood placenta barrier .
Ceftriaxone penetrates the inflamed meninges of infants and pediatric patients .
The average values of maximum plasma concentration , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) concentrations , elimination half - life , plasma clearance and volume of distribution after a 50 mg / kg intravenous dose and after a 75 mg / kg intravenous dose in pediatric patients suffering from bacterial meningitis are shown in Table 4 .
TABLE 4 : Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in Pediatric Patients with Meningitis 50 mg / kg I . V . 75 mg / kg I . V . Maximum Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 216 275 Elimination Half - life ( hr ) 4 . 6 4 . 3 Plasma Clearance ( mL / hr / kg ) 49 60 Volume of Distribution ( mL / kg ) 338 373 CSF Concentration – inflamed meninges ( mcg / mL ) 5 . 6 6 . 4 Range ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 3 - 18 . 5 1 . 3 - 44 Time after dose ( hr ) 3 . 7 ( ± 1 . 6 ) 3 . 3 ( ± 1 . 4 ) After a 1 gram intravenous dose , average concentrations of ceftriaxone , determined from 1 to 3 hours after dosing , were 581 mcg / mL in the gallbladder bile , 788 mcg / mL in the common duct bile , 898 mcg / mL in the cystic duct bile , 78 . 2 mcg / gram in the gallbladder wall compared to a corresponding concentration of 62 . 1 mcg / mL in plasma .
Excretion Ceftriaxone concentrations in urine are shown in Table 5 .
TABLE 5 : Urinary Concentrations of Ceftriaxone After Single Dose Administration Average Urinary Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) Dose / Route 0 - 2 hr 2 - 4 hr 4 - 8 hr 8 - 12 hr 12 - 24 hr 24 - 48 hr 0 . 5 gram I . V . 526 366 142 87 70 15 1 gram I . V . 995 855 293 147 132 32 2 grams I . V . 2692 1976 757 274 198 40 Thirty - three percent to 67 % of a ceftriaxone dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug , and the remainder was secreted in the bile and ultimately found in the feces as microbiologically inactive compounds .
The elimination of ceftriaxone is not altered by probenecid .
Special Populations Average pharmacokinetic parameters of ceftriaxone in healthy subjects , elderly subjects , subjects with renal impairment , and subjects with liver disease are summarized in Table 6 .
Compared to healthy adult subjects , the pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in elderly subjects and in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; therefore , dosage adjustments are not necessary for these patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 grams per day .
Ceftriaxone was not removed to any significant extent from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In 6 of 26 dialysis patients , the elimination rate of ceftriaxone was markedly reduced , suggesting that plasma concentrations of ceftriaxone should be monitored in these patients to determine if dosage adjustments are necessary [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
TABLE 6 : Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in Humans Subject Group Elimination Half - Life ( hr ) Plasma Clearance ( L / hr ) Volume of Distribution ( L ) Healthy Subjects [ 1 ] 5 . 8 - 8 . 7 0 . 58 - 1 . 45 5 . 8 - 13 . 5 Elderly Subjects ( mean age , 70 . 5 yr ) 8 . 9 0 . 83 10 . 7 Patients with Renal Impairment Hemodialysis Patients ( 0 - 5 mL / min ) [ 2 ] 14 . 7 0 . 65 13 . 7 Severe ( 5 - 15 mL / min ) 15 . 7 0 . 56 12 . 5 Moderate ( 16 - 30 mL / min ) 11 . 4 0 . 72 11 . 8 Mild ( 31 - 60 mL / min ) 12 . 4 0 . 70 13 . 3 Patients with Liver Disease 8 . 8 1 . 1 13 . 6 [ 1 ] Dose ranged from 0 . 15 to 3 grams [ 2 ] Creatinine clearance .
Drug Interactions Interaction with Calcium : Two in vitro studies , one using adult plasma and the other neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood , have been carried out to assess interaction of ceftriaxone and calcium .
Ceftriaxone concentrations up to 1 mM ( in excess of concentrations achieved in vivo following administration of 2 grams ceftriaxone infused over 30 minutes ) were used in combination with calcium concentrations up to 12 mM ( 48 mg / dL ) .
Recovery of ceftriaxone from plasma was reduced with calcium concentrations of 6 mM ( 24 mg / dL ) or higher in adult plasma or 4 mM ( 16 mg / dL ) or higher in neonatal plasma .
This may be reflective of ceftriaxone - calcium precipitation .
12 . 4 Microbiology PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ceftriaxone and other antibacterial drugs , ceftriaxone should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 12 . 4 ) Mechanism of Action Ceftriaxone is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Ceftriaxone has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to ceftriaxone is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In an in vitro study antagonistic effects have been observed with the combination of chloramphenicol and ceftriaxone .
Antibacterial Activity Ceftriaxone has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) section .
• Gram - negative Bacteria • Acinetobacter calcoaceticus • Enterobacter aerogenes • Enterobacter cloacae • Escherichia coli • Haemophilus influenzae • Haemophilus parainfluenzae • Klebsiella oxytoca • Klebsiella pneumoniae • Moraxella catarrhalis • Morganella morganii • Neisseria gonorrhoeae • Neisseria meningitidis • Proteus mirabilis • Proteus vulgaris • Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Serratia marcescens • Gram - positive Bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus • Staphylococcus epidermidis • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes • Viridans group streptococci • Anaerobic Bacteria • Bacteroides fragilis • Clostridium species • Peptostreptococcus species The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for ceftriaxone .
However , the efficacy of ceftriaxone in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
• Gram - negative Bacteria • Citrobacter diversus • Citrobacter freundii • Providencia species ( including Providencia rettgeri ) • Salmonella species ( including Salmonella typhi ) • Shigella species • Gram - positive Bacteria • Streptococcus agalactiae • Anaerobic Bacteria • Porphyromonas ( Bacteroides ) melaninogenicus • Prevotella ( Bacteroides ) bivius Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Considering the maximum duration of treatment and the class of the compound , carcinogenicity studies with ceftriaxone in animals have not been performed .
The maximum duration of animal toxicity studies was 6 months .
Mutagenesis Genetic toxicology tests included the Ames test , a micronucleus test and a test for chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes cultured in vitro with ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone showed no potential for genotoxic activity in these studies .
Impairment of Fertility Ceftriaxone produced no impairment of fertility when given intravenously to rats at daily doses up to 586 mg / kg / day , approximately 2 . 8 times ( mg / m2 comparison ) the recommended clinical dose of 2 grams / day .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Animal Pharmacology Concretions consisting of the precipitated calcium salt of ceftriaxone have been found in the gallbladder bile of dogs and baboons treated with ceftriaxone .
These appeared as a gritty sediment in dogs that received 100 mg / kg / day for 4 weeks .
A similar phenomenon has been observed in baboons but only after a protracted dosing period ( 6 months ) at higher dose levels ( 335 mg / kg / day or more ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is available in the following SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package bags : 100 grams * One Pharmacy Bulk Package bag Product No . 6100 NDC 66288 - 6100 - 1 .
* Each 100 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package bag contains sterile ceftriaxone sodium equivalent to 100 grams of ceftriaxone SmartPak ® system components are not made with natural rubber latex .
Precautions As with other cephalosporins , reconstituted Ceftriaxone for Injection tends to darken depending on storage conditions within the stated recommendations .
However , product potency is not adversely affected .
Use only if prepared solution is clear and free from particulate matter .
Storage Conditions Prior to reconstitution , store Ceftriaxone for Injection sterile powder at room temperature 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and protected from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients that neurological adverse reactions could occur with Ceftriaxone for Injection use .
Instruct patients or their caregivers to inform their healthcare provider at once of any neurological signs and symptoms , including encephalopathy ( disturbance of consciousness including somnolence , lethargy , and confusion ) , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus , for immediate treatment , or discontinuation of Ceftriaxone for Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Patients should be advised that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment and discontinuation of ceftriaxone .
Patients should report to their health care provider any previous allergic reactions to ceftriaxone , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other similar antibacterials .
• Advise patients of neurological adverse reactions that could occur with Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP use .
Instruct patients to inform a healthcare provider at once of any neurological signs and symptoms , including encephalopathy ( disturbance of consciousness including confusion , hallucinations , stupor , and coma ) , myoclonus , and seizures , for immediate treatment , dosage adjustment , or discontinuation of Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP .
• Patients should be advised that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials , which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact a physician as soon as possible .
• Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including ceftriaxone , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Ceftriaxone for Injection , USP is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by ceftriaxone or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Rx only SmartPak is a registered trademark of Samson Medical Technologies , L . L . C . C6100d SAMSON MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES L . L . C . Cherry Hill , NJ 08003 , USA by ACS Dobfar S . p . A . 20067 Tribiano ( Milano ) Italy Manufactured for PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Pharmacy Bulk Package - Ceftriaxone bag label NDC 66288 - 6100 - 1 SMARxTPAK CEFTRIAXONE FOR INJECTION , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 100 grams [ ONE HUNDRED GRAMS ] per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - Free Each 100 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package contains sterile ceftriaxone sodium equivalent to 100 grams of ceftriaxone .
The sodium content is 83 mg ( 3 . 6 mEq ) per gram of ceftriaxone activity .
Use this formulation only in patients who require a 1 gram dose .
Contains 100 doses ( 1 gram per dose ) .
See package insert .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert .
Prior to reconstitution , store dry powder at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect from light .
After reconstitution , dilute and use promptly .
DISCARD BAG WITHIN 4 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY .
See package insert for full information .
THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS INTENDED FOR PREPARING MANY SINGLE DOSES IN A PHARMACY ADMIXTURE PROGRAM .
Approximate Concentration Amount of Sterile Water for Injection 1 gram / 10 mL 950 mL See package insert for detailed reconstitution , final dilution , and administration instructions .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
THE INNER BAG SHOULD BE RETAINED IN THE OUTER BAG UNTIL TIME OF USE .
SmartPak ® system components are not made with natural rubber latex .
Manufactured for SAMSON MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES L . L . C . Cherry Hill , NJ 08003 , Date entered Time of entry Discard within 4 hours [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
