Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risK of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only When using this product do not use in or near eyes Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
After application , wait until product dries before approaching a source of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F Stop use and ask a doctor rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , seek immediate medical attention or call a poison control center .
Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , polyester - 7 , tocopherol , fragrance Kroger Sport Clear Spray SPF 30 provides quick and easy coverage with brad spectrum protection .
Its clear , specially formulated spray goes on at any angle .
Water - resistant formula provides protection in and out of the water for up to 80 minutes .
May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Distributed by The Kroger Co .
Cincinnati , OH 45202 This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 30 .
Oxybenzone & Octinoxate Free Quality guarantee 800 - 632 - 6900 www . kroger . com principal display panel Compare to Coppertone sunscreen spray sport * see back panel KROGER SPORT SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 UVA / UVB protection Continuous spray water resistant ( 80 minutes ) sweat resistant hypoallergenic for active lifestyles SPF 30 Reef friendly NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
