1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENJAYMO is a classical complement inhibitor indicated to decrease the need for red blood cell ( RBC ) transfusion due to hemolysis in adults with cold agglutinin disease ( CAD ) .
( 1 ) Cold Agglutinin Disease ENJAYMO ( sutimlimab - jome ) is indicated to decrease the need for red blood cell ( RBC ) transfusion due to hemolysis in adults with cold agglutinin disease ( CAD ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Vaccinate against encapsulated bacteria at least two weeks prior to treatment .
( 2 . 1 ) • Weight - based dosage weekly for two weeks then every two weeks : • For patients weighing 39 kg to less than 75 kg : 6 , 500 mg by intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 2 ) • For patients weighing 75 kg or more : 7 , 500 mg by intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for important preparation and administration instructions .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Vaccinations Vaccinate patients against encapsulated bacteria at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of ENJAYMO therapy according to the most current Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) recommendations for patients with persistent complement deficiencies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If urgent ENJAYMO therapy is indicated in an unvaccinated patient , administer vaccine ( s ) as soon as possible .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Regimen The recommended dosage of ENJAYMO for patients with CAD is based on body weight .
For patients weighing 39 kg to less than 75 kg , the recommended dose is 6 , 500 mg and for patients weighing 75 kg or more , the recommended dose is 7 , 500 mg .
Administer ENJAYMO intravenously weekly for the first two weeks , with administration every two weeks thereafter .
Administer ENJAYMO at the recommended dosage regimen time points , or within two days of these time points .
If a dose is missed , administer as soon as possible ; thereafter , resume dosing every two weeks .
If the duration after the last dose exceeds 17 days , administer ENJAYMO weekly for two weeks , with administration every two weeks thereafter .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration ENJAYMO is for intravenous infusion only .
Each vial of ENJAYMO is intended for single dose only .
Use aseptic technique to prepare ENJAYMO as follows : • To minimize foaming , do not shake ENJAYMO .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• ENJAYMO solution is a clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Do not administer if discolored or if foreign particulate matter is present .
• Withdraw the calculated volume of ENJAYMO from the appropriate number of vials based on the recommended dosage ( see Table 1 ) .
Dilute the calculated volume with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to a total volume of 500 mL .
• Refer to Table 1 for infusion rate .
Administer the infusion over 1 to 2 hours depending on the patient ' s body weight .
Administer ENJAYMO infusion solution only through a 0 . 2 micron in - line filter with a polyethersulfone ( PES ) membrane .
• Prime the infusion tubing with the dosing solution immediately before infusion and flush immediately following completion of the infusion with a sufficient quantity ( approximately 20 mL ) of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
• If the ENJAYMO infusion solution is not used immediately , store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Once removed from refrigeration , allow the ENJAYMO infusion solution to adjust to room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) and administer within 8 hours .
Total time from the time of preparation , including refrigeration , adjustment to room temperature and the expected infusion time should not exceed 36 hours .
In - line infusion warmers may be used , do not exceed a temperature of 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) .
• No incompatibilities have been observed between ENJAYMO infusion solution and infusion bags made of Di - ( 2 - ethylhexyl ) phthalate ( DEHP ) plasticized polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) , Ethyl Vinyl Acetate ( EVA ) and polyolefin ( PO ) ; administration sets made of DEHP - plasticized PVC , DEHP - free polypropylene ( PP ) and polyethylene ( PE ) ; and vial adapters made of polycarbonate ( PC ) and acrylonitrile - butadiene - styrene ( ABS ) .
Table 1 : Infusion Reference TableBody Weight Range Dose Number of ENJAYMO Vials Needed ENJAYMO Volume Volume of NaCl Diluent Total Volume Maximum Infusion Rate 39 kg to less than 70 kg 6 , 500 mg 6 130 mL 370 mL 500 mL 250 mL / hour 70 kg to less than 75 kg 6 , 500 mg 6 130 mL 370 mL 500 mL 500 mL / hour [ 1 ] 75 kg or greater 7 , 500 mg 7 150 mL 350 mL 500 mL 500 mL / hour null [ 1 ] Patients with cardiopulmonary disease should receive the infusion over 120 minutes .
Slow or stop the infusion in case of infusion reaction during ENJAYMO administration .
Monitor the patient for at least two hours following completion of the initial infusion for signs or symptoms of an infusion and / or hypersensitivity reaction .
Monitor the patient for one hour following completion of subsequent infusions for signs or symptoms of an infusion reaction .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 1 , 100 mg / 22 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) as a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 1 , 100 mg / 22 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ENJAYMO is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sutimlimab - jome or any of the inactive ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
ENJAYMO is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sutimlimab - jome or any of the inactive ingredients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Infections : Ensure patients are vaccinated against encapsulated bacteria .
Monitor patients for early signs and symptoms of infections .
( 5 . 1 ) • Infusion - Related Reactions : Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions , interrupt if reaction occurs , and institute appropriate medical management as needed .
( 5 . 2 ) • Risk of Autoimmune Disease : Monitor patients for signs and symptoms and manage medically .
( 5 . 3 ) • Recurrent Hemolysis After ENJAYMO Discontinuation : Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hemolysis if treatment with ENJAYMO is interrupted .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Serious Infections ENJAYMO may increase susceptibility to serious infections , including infections caused by encapsulated bacteria such as Neisseria meningitides ( any serogroup ) , Streptococcus pneumoniae , and Haemophilus influenzae .
Serious infections ( bacterial and viral ) were reported in 17 % ( 4 / 24 ) of patients receiving ENJAYMO in a single - arm open - label clinical trial .
These infections included sepsis , respiratory , and skin infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Vaccinate patients for encapsulated bacteria according to the most current ACIP recommendations for patients with persistent complement deficiencies .
Revaccinate patients in accordance with ACIP recommendations .
Immunize patients without a history of vaccination against encapsulated bacteria at least two weeks prior to receiving the first dose of ENJAYMO .
If urgent ENJAYMO therapy is indicated in an unvaccinated patient , administer vaccine ( s ) as soon as possible .
Vaccination reduces , but does not eliminate , the risk of encapsulated bacterial infections .
If ENJAYMO treatment is administered to patients with active systemic infections , monitor closely for signs and symptoms of worsening infection .
Some infections may become rapidly life - threatening or fatal if not recognized and treated promptly .
Inform patients of these signs and symptoms and steps to be taken to seek immediate medical care .
Consider interruption of ENJAYMO treatment in patients who are undergoing treatment for serious infection .
ENJAYMO has not been studied in patients with chronic systemic infections such as hepatitis B , hepatitis C , or HIV .
Consider patients ' immune status when initiating treatment with ENJAYMO .
5 . 2 Infusion - Related Reactions ENJAYMO is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sutimlimab - jome or any of the inactive ingredients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of ENJAYMO may result in infusion - related reactions .
In the CARDINAL study , 2 of 24 patients ( 8 % ) treated with ENJAYMO experienced infusion - related reactions ( shortness of breath , rapid heartbeat , nausea , flushing , and headache ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions and interrupt if a reaction occurs .
Discontinue ENJAYMO infusion and institute appropriate supportive measures if signs of hypersensitivity reactions , such as cardiovascular instability or respiratory compromise , occur .
5 . 3 Risk of Autoimmune Disease Based on its mechanism of action , ENJAYMO may potentially increase the risk for developing autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) .
Development of systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) has been associated with inherited classical complement deficiency .
Patients with SLE or autoimmune disease with positive anti - nuclear antibody were excluded from clinical trials with ENJAYMO .
Monitor patients being treated with ENJAYMO for signs and symptoms and manage medically .
5 . 4 Recurrent Hemolysis After ENJAYMO Discontinuation If treatment with ENJAYMO is interrupted , closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of recurrent hemolysis , e . g . , elevated levels of total bilirubin or lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) accompanied by a decrease in hemoglobin , or reappearance of symptoms such as fatigue , dyspnea , palpitations , or hemoglobinuria .
Consider restarting ENJAYMO if signs and symptoms of hemolysis occur after discontinuation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Serious Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Infusion - Related Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Risk of Autoimmune Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Recurrent Hemolysis After ENJAYMO Discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) are respiratory tract infection , viral infection , diarrhea , dyspepsia , cough , arthralgia , arthritis , and peripheral edema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bioverativ USA Inc . ( A SANOFI COMPANY ) at 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of ENJAYMO in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of CAD and history of blood transfusion in the 6 months prior to study enrollment was evaluated in a six - month , open - label single - arm trial ( CARDINAL ) ( n = 24 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The median duration of treatment was 26 . 1 weeks and 92 % completed 26 weeks of therapy .
In CARDINAL , the most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients were respiratory tract infection , viral infection , diarrhea , dyspepsia , cough , arthralgia , arthritis and peripheral edema .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in 13 % ( 3 / 24 ) of patients who received ENJAYMO .
These serious adverse reactions were streptococcal sepsis and staphylococcal wound infection ( n = 1 ) , arthralgia ( n = 1 ) , and respiratory tract infection ( n = 1 ) .
None of the adverse reactions led to discontinuation of ENJAYMO in CARDINAL .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 17 % ( 4 / 24 ) of patients who received ENJAYMO .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % or more patients in CARDINAL are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in Patients Receiving ENJAYMO in CARDINALAdverse Reaction n ( % ) N = 24 Infections Respiratory tract infection [ 1 ] [ 2 ] 6 ( 25 ) Viral infection null [ 3 ] 3 ( 13 ) Urinary tract infection null [ 4 ] 2 ( 8 ) Bacterial infection null [ 5 ] 2 ( 8 ) Vascular disorders Cyanosis 2 ( 8 ) Systemic hypertension [ 6 ] 2 ( 8 ) Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 3 ( 13 ) Dyspepsia [ 7 ] 3 ( 13 ) Gastroenteritis 2 ( 8 ) Abdominal pain 2 ( 8 ) Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough [ 8 ] 3 ( 13 ) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia , arthritis null [ 9 ] 3 ( 13 ) General disorders and administration site conditions Peripheral edema 3 ( 13 ) Fatigue null [ 10 ] 2 ( 8 ) Infusion reaction 2 ( 8 ) Nervous system disorders Headache 2 ( 8 ) [ 1 ] Events may be counted in more than one grouped term , e . g . , viral upper respiratory tract infection is counted in viral infection and respiratory tract infection . The following terms were combined : [ 2 ] Includes nasopharyngitis , respiratory tract infection , respiratory tract infection viral , upper respiratory tract infection , viral upper respiratory tract infection [ 3 ] Includes oral herpes , respiratory tract infection viral , viral infection , viral upper respiratory tract infection [ 4 ] Includes cystitis bacterial , urinary tract infection [ 5 ] Includes cystitis bacterial , streptococcal sepsis , wound infection staphylococcal [ 6 ] Includes hypertension , blood pressure increased [ 7 ] Includes dyspepsia , abdominal pain upper [ 8 ] Includes cough , productive cough [ 9 ] Includes arthralgia , osteoarthritis [ 10 ] Includes fatigue and mental fatigue 6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibodies ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with incidence of antibodies in other studies may be misleading .
Immunogenicity of sutimlimab - jome was assessed in CAD patients in CARDINAL at baseline , during the treatment period , and at end of treatment ( Week 26 ) .
None of the 24 patients enrolled in CARDINAL who received at least one dose of sutimlimab - jome developed treatment - emergent antidrug antibodies ( ADAs ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on ENJAYMO use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Human immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) antibodies are known to cross the placental barrier ; therefore , sutimlimab - jome may be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of sutimlimab - jome to pregnant monkeys during organogenesis at doses 2 to 3 times the maximum recommended human doses did not result in adverse effects on pregnancy or offspring development ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % – 4 % and 15 % – 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal data Pregnant monkeys were administered sutimlimab - jome at doses of 60 and 180 mg / kg / dose via 30 - minute intravenous infusion once - weekly from gestation Day 20 to parturition ( approximately 21 doses ) resulting in exposures 2 to 3 times the human exposures at the maximum recommended doses , based on area under the curve ( AUC ) .
Sutimlimab - jome was detectable in infants born to pregnant females exposed to 180 mg / kg / week .
No effects on reproductive and developmental parameters were observed in maternal animals and offspring , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of sutimlimab - jome in human milk , effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Maternal IgG is known to be present in human milk .
The effects of local gastrointestinal exposure and limited systemic exposure in the breastfed child to sutimlimab - jome are unknown .
No conclusions can be drawn regarding whether or not ENJAYMO is safe for use during breastfeeding .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ENJAYMO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ENJAYMO or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 34 patients with CAD in clinical studies of ENJAYMO , 79 % were 65 years of age and over including 32 % who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Sutimlimab - jome , a classical complement inhibitor , is a humanized monoclonal antibody expressed by recombinant in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells and produced in vitro using standard mammalian cell culture methods .
Sutimlimab - jome is composed of two heterodimers .
Each heterodimer is composed of a heavy and a light polypeptide chain .
Each heavy chain ( H - chain ) is composed of 445 amino acids and each light chain ( L - chain ) contains 216 amino acids .
Sutimlimab - jome has a molecular weight of approximately 147 kDa .
ENJAYMO ( sutimlimab - jome ) injection is a sterile , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution for intravenous use .
Each single - dose vial contains 1 , 100 mg sutimlimab - jome at a concentration of 50 mg / mL with a pH of 6 . 1 .
Each mL contains 50 mg of sutimlimab - jome and also contains polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 2 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 8 . 18 mg ) , sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate ( 0 . 48 mg ) , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate ( 1 . 13 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sutimlimab - jome is an immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) , subclass 4 ( IgG4 ) monoclonal antibody ( mAb ) that inhibits the classical complement pathway ( CP ) and specifically binds to complement protein component 1 , s subcomponent ( C1s ) , a serine protease which cleaves C4 .
Sutimlimab - jome does not inhibit the lectin and alternative pathways .
Inhibition of the classical complement pathway at the level of C1s prevents deposition of complement opsonins on the surface of RBCs , resulting in inhibition of hemolysis in patients with CAD .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Greater than 90 % inhibition of CP was observed following a single sutimlimab - jome infusion and sustained in patients with CAD when sutimlimab - jome concentrations were greater than or equal to 100 mcg / mL .
C4 levels returned to normal levels ( 0 . 2 g / L ) in patients with CAD within one week following the first dose of sutimlimab - jome .
Complete CP inhibition following initiation of sutimlimab - jome treatment led to inhibition of hemolysis as evidenced by normalization of bilirubin , decrease in LDH , increase in haptoglobin , and decrease in reticulocytes .
After the first treatment with sutimlimab - jome , near normalization of bilirubin associated with a greater than 1 g / dL increase in hemoglobin was observed , demonstrating the effect of CP inhibition .
The extent and duration of the pharmacodynamic response in patients with CAD were exposure dependent for sutimlimab - jome .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following administration of the approved weight - based recommended dosages , the exposure of sutimlimab - jome increases proportionally over a dosage range of 60 mg / kg to 100 mg / kg by intravenous infusion ( 0 . 3 to 1 . 5 times the maximum approved recommended dosage based on 75 kg body weight ) .
Steady state was achieved by Week 7 after starting sutimlimab - jome treatment , with an accumulation ratio of less than 2 .
Distribution Sutimlimab - jome binds to C1s in the serum .
The volume of distribution at steady state was approximately 5 . 8 L in patients with CAD .
Elimination The terminal elimination half - life and clearance varies at different doses due to target - mediated drug disposition at lower sutimlimab - jome concentrations .
The terminal elimination half - life ( t1 / 2β ) of sutimlimab - jome is 21 days with a clearance ( CL ) of approximately 0 . 14 L / day at the approved recommended dosage .
Metabolism Sutimlimab - jome is a protein .
It is generally recognized that antibodies are metabolized by degradation into small peptides and individual amino acids .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sutimlimab - jome were observed based on sex , age ( 19 to 88 years of age ) , ethnicity ( Japanese , non - Japanese ) , and mild to moderate renal impairment ( 30 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 measured by estimated glomerular filtration rate [ eGFR ] ) .
The effects of severe renal impairment and hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sutimlimab - jome are unknown .
Body weight Population pharmacokinetic analysis shows that sutimlimab - jome exposures decreased up to 59 % for a patient weighing 98 kg and increased up to 57 % for a patient weighing 50 . 5 kg as compared with a patient weighing 72 kg .
The effect of body weight on pharmacokinetics has been integrated in the recommended dose regimen tiered by body weight .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with sutimlimab - jome .
Effects of sutimlimab - jome on male and female fertility have not been studied in animals .
In repeat - dose studies in cynomolgus monkeys with sutimlimab - jome administered once - weekly at exposures 3 to 4 times the human exposures at the maximum recommended human doses of sutimlimab - jome , no effects on male or female reproductive tissues were observed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of ENJAYMO was assessed in an open - label , single - arm , 6 - month trial in 24 patients ( CARDINAL , NCT03347396 ) .
Following the completion of the 6 - month treatment period , patients continued to receive ENJAYMO in a long - term safety and durability of response extension phase for an additional 24 months .
Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of CAD based on chronic hemolysis , polyspecific direct antiglobulin test ( DAT ) , monospecific DAT specific for C3d , cold agglutinin titer ≥ 64 at 4 ° C , and IgG DAT ≤ 1 + and a recent blood transfusion in the 6 months prior to enrollment were administered 6 . 5 g or 7 . 5 g ENJAYMO ( based on body weight ) intravenously over approximately 60 minutes on Day 0 , Day 7 , and every 14 days thereafter through Week 25 .
Patients with cold agglutinin syndrome secondary to infection , rheumatologic disease , systemic lupus erythematosus , or overt hematologic malignancy were excluded , whereas patients with a history of or concomitant low - grade lymphoproliferative disease were not excluded .
Major baseline characteristics of the trial population are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Baseline Characteristics of Patients Included in CARDINAL Parameter Statistic ENJAYMO N = 24 Age Mean ( SD ) Range 71 . 3 ( 8 . 2 ) 55 to 85 years Sex Female n ( % ) 15 ( 63 ) Male 9 ( 38 ) Body weight Mean ( SD ) Range 67 . 8 ( 15 . 8 ) 40 to 112 kg Hemoglobin Mean ( SD ) , g / dL 8 . 6 ( 1 . 16 ) Bilirubin ( total ) [ 1 ] Mean ( SD ) , mg / dL 3 . 1 ( 1 . 41 ) ( 2 . 6 × ULN [ 2 ] ) LDH null Mean ( SD ) , U / L 438 ( 484 . 60 ) Blood transfusion Median number of transfusions ( range ) Within last 6 months 2 . 0 ( 1 , 19 ) Within last 12 months 2 . 0 ( 1 , 23 ) [ 1 ] N = 21 for bilirubin data excluding patients with Gilbert ' s syndrome .
[ 2 ] ULN : Upper limit of normal , LDH : Lactate dehydrogenase .
Efficacy was based on the proportion of patients who met the following criteria : an increase from baseline in Hgb level ≥ 2 g / dL or a Hgb level ≥ 12 g / dL at the treatment assessment time point ( mean value from Weeks 23 , 25 , and 26 ) , no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26 , and no treatment for CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26 .
Efficacy of ENJAYMO in patients with CAD is described in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Efficacy Results in Patients with CAD in CARDINALParameter Statistic ENJAYMO N = 24 Responder [ 1 ] n ( % ) 13 ( 54 ) Hemoglobin level ≥ 12 g / dL or Increase in Hemoglobin level of ≥ 2 g / dL n ( % ) 15 ( 63 ) Hemoglobin level ≥ 12 g / dL n ( % ) 9 ( 38 ) Increase in Hemoglobin level of ≥ 2 g / dL n ( % ) 15 ( 63 ) Patients not receiving RBC transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26 ( transfusion avoidance ) n ( % ) 17 ( 71 ) Patients not receiving protocol - prohibited CAD medications [ 2 ] from Week 5 through Week 26 n ( % ) 22 ( 92 ) [ 1 ] A responder was defined as a patient with an increase from baseline in Hgb level ≥ 2 g / dL or a Hgb level ≥ 12 g / dL at the treatment assessment time point ( mean value from Weeks 23 , 25 , and 26 ) , no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26 , and no treatment for CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26 .
[ 2 ] Prohibited therapies included rituximab alone or in combination with cytotoxic agents .
Among 14 patients with baseline and follow - up bilirubin values , the mean was 3 . 23 mg / dL ( 2 . 7 - fold ULN ) at baseline and 0 . 91 mg / dL ( 0 . 8 - fold ULN ) at the treatment assessment time point .
The least - squares ( LS ) mean change was reduction of - 2 . 23 mg / dL ( 95 % CI : - 2 . 49 to - 1 . 98 ) .
Among 17 patients with baseline and follow - up LDH values , the mean LDH was 424 U / L ( 1 . 7 - fold ULN ) at baseline and 301 U / L ( 1 . 2 - fold ULN ) at the follow - up time point .
The least squared mean change in LDH at the treatment assessment time point was reduction of - 126 ( 95 % CI : - 218 to - 35 ) .
In CARDINAL , an increase in mean hemoglobin level of 2 . 29 g / dL ( SE : 0 . 308 ) was observed at Week 3 and 3 . 18 g / dL ( SE : 0 . 476 ) at treatment assessment time point .
The observed model mean change in hemoglobin level from baseline at treatment assessment time point was an improvement of 2 . 60 g / dL ( 95 % CI : 0 . 74 , 4 . 46 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ENJAYMO ( sutimlimab - jome ) injection is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution supplied as one 1 , 100 mg / 22 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) single - dose vial per carton ( NDC 80203 - 347 - 01 ) .
Store ENJAYMO vials refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
Discard unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Serious Infections Advise patients of the potential increased risk of infections including infections caused by encapsulated bacteria such as Neisseria meningitides , Streptococcus pneumoniae , and Haemophilus influenzae .
These infections may be serious or life - threatening .
Inform patients that they are required to receive vaccinations against these bacteria according to current medical guidelines prior to initiation of and during treatment with ENJAYMO .
Educate patients on the symptoms of infections and advise them to seek immediate medical attention if any new symptoms of infection occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infusion - Related Reactions Advise patients that administration of ENJAYMO may result in infusion - related reactions including hypersensitivity reactions .
Hypersensitivity reactions may be serious or life - threatening ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) .
Educate patients on the symptoms of infusion - related reactions and advise them to seek medical attention if any new symptoms of infusion - related reactions occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Risk of Autoimmune Disease Educate patients that there may be an increased risk of developing an autoimmune disease such as SLE during ENJAYMO therapy .
Advise patients on signs and symptoms of SLE and to report any new symptoms of SLE and seek medical attention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Discontinuation Inform patients with CAD that they may develop hemolysis due to CAD when ENJAYMO is discontinued and that they should be monitored by their healthcare provider following ENJAYMO discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Bioverativ USA Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 A SANOFI COMPANY US License No . 2078 © 2022 Bioverativ USA Inc .
All rights reserved .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : February 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE ENJAYMO ™ ( en - jaye - moe ) ( sutimlimab - jome ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about ENJAYMO ?
ENJAYMO can cause serious side effects , including : Serious infections .
ENJAYMO is a prescription medicine that affects your immune system .
ENJAYMO can lower the ability of your immune system to fight infections .
People who take ENJAYMO may have an increased risk of getting infections caused by certain kinds of bacteria such as Neisseria meningitides , Streptococcus pneumoniae , and Haemophilus influenzae .
These infections may be serious or life - threatening .
Some infections may quickly become life - threatening or cause death if not recognized and treated early .
• You need to receive vaccinations against infections caused by certain kinds of bacteria at least 2 weeks before your first dose of ENJAYMO .
You may need to have additional vaccinations during treatment with ENJAYMO .
• If your healthcare provider decides that urgent treatment with ENJAYMO is needed , you should receive vaccinations as soon as possible .
• Vaccinations may reduce the risk of these infections , but do not prevent all infections .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you get any new signs and symptoms of an infection , including : • fever • severe headache with stiff neck or back • pain during urination or urinating more often than usual • cough or difficulty breathing • flu - like symptoms • pain , redness or swelling of the skin See " What are the possible side effects of ENJAYMO ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is ENJAYMO ?
ENJAYMO is a prescription medicine used to decrease the need for red blood cell transfusion due to the breakdown of red blood cells ( hemolysis ) in adults with cold agglutinin disease ( CAD ) .
It is not known if ENJAYMO is safe and effective in children .
Who should not receive ENJAYMO ?
Do not receive ENJAYMO if you are allergic to sutimlimab - jome or any of the ingredients in ENJAYMO .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ENJAYMO .
Before receiving ENJAYMO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a fever or infection , including a history of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) , hepatitis B , or hepatitis C . • have an autoimmune disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) , also known as lupus .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ENJAYMO will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ENJAYMO passes into your breast milk .
You should talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with ENJAYMO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I receive ENJAYMO ?
• ENJAYMO is given through a vein by intravenous ( I . V . ) infusion , usually over 1 to 2 hours .
• You will usually receive a starting dose of ENJAYMO , followed by a second dose of ENJAYMO 1 week later .
Then 2 weeks after your second dose , you will start to receive an ENJAYMO infusion every 2 weeks .
• After your first infusion , you should be monitored for infusion and allergic reactions for at least 2 hours .
For all future infusions , you should be monitored for infusion reactions for 1 hour .
See " What are the possible side effects of ENJAYMO ? "
• If you have CAD and you stop receiving ENJAYMO , your healthcare provider should monitor you closely for return of your symptoms after you stop ENJAYMO .
Stopping ENJAYMO may cause the breakdown of your red blood cells due to CAD to return .
Symptoms or problems that can happen due to red blood cell breakdown include : • tiredness • shortness of breath • rapid heart rate • blood in your urine or dark urine • If you miss an ENJAYMO infusion , call your healthcare provider right away .
What are the possible side effects of ENJAYMO ?
ENJAYMO can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about ENJAYMO ? "
• Infusion - related reactions .
Treatment with ENJAYMO may cause infusion - related reactions , including allergic reactions that may be serious or life - threatening .
Your healthcare provider may slow down or stop your ENJAYMO infusion if you have an infusion - related reaction , and will treat your symptoms if needed .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop symptoms during your ENJAYMO infusion that may mean you are having an infusion - related reaction , including : • shortness of breath • rapid heartbeat • nausea • flushing • headache • Risk of autoimmune disease .
ENJAYMO may increase your risk for developing an autoimmune disease such as SLE .
Tell your healthcare provider and get medical help if you develop any symptoms of SLE , including : • joint pain or swelling • rash on the cheeks and nose • unexplained fever The most common side effects of ENJAYMO include : • respiratory tract infection • viral infection • diarrhea • indigestion • cough • joint pain • joint inflammation ( arthritis ) • swelling of the lower legs , ankles , and feet These are not all the possible side effects of ENJAYMO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ENJAYMO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ENJAYMO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ENJAYMO ?
Active ingredient : sutimlimab - jome Inactive ingredients : polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , and Water for Injection , USP .
Manufactured by : Bioverativ USA Inc . , Waltham , MA 02451 .
A SANOFI COMPANY .
US License No . 2078 For more information , go to www . ENJAYMO . com or call 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 .
© 2022 Bioverativ USA Inc .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 , 100 mg / 22 mL Vial Carton NDC 80203 - 347 - 01 Rx only Enjaymo ™ ( sutimlimab - jome ) Injection 1 , 100 mg / 22 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution Attention Pharmacist : Each patient is required to receive the enclosed Medication Guide One single - dose vial Discard unused portion Bioverativ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
