1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are corticosteroid indicated for : • Treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon , in patients 8 years and older .
( 1 . 1 ) • Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon in patients 8 years of age and older .
1 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are indicated for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions ( 2 . 1 ) • Take once daily in the morning .
• Swallow whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule , open the capsules and empty the granules onto one tablespoonful of applesauce .
Mix and consume the entire contents within 30 minutes .
Do not chew or crush .
Follow with 8 ounces of water .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of therapy .
Recommended Dosage Mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease ( 2 . 2 ) • Adults : 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks ; repeat 8 week treatment courses for recurring episodes of active disease .
• Pediatrics 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg : 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks , followed by 6 mg once daily in the morning for 2 weeks .
Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease ( 2 . 3 ) • Adults : 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months ; taper to complete cessation after 3 months .
Continued treatment for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
• When switching from oral prednisolone , begin tapering prednisolone concomitantly with initiating budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Hepatic Impairment • Consider reducing the dosage to 3 mg once daily in adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Administration Instructions • Take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) once daily in the morning .
• Swallow budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule , budesonide delayed - release capsules can be opened and administered as follows : • Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container ( e . g . , empty bowl ) .
The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing .
• Open the capsule ( s ) .
• Carefully empty all the granules inside the capsule ( s ) on the applesauce .
• Mix the granules with the applesauce .
• Consume the entire contents within 30 minutes of mixing .
Do not chew or crush the granules .
Do not save the applesauce and granules for future use .
• Follow the applesauce and granules immediately with a glass ( 8 ounces ) of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the granules .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease The recommended dosage of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) is : Adults 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks .
Repeated 8 week courses of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) can be given for recurring episodes of active disease .
Pediatric patients 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks , followed by 6 mg once daily for 2 weeks .
2 . 3 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease The recommended dosage in adults , following an 8 week course ( s ) of treatment for active disease and once the patient ' s symptoms are controlled ( CDAI less than 150 ) , is budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months .
If symptom control is still maintained at 3 months an attempt to taper to complete cessation is recommended .
Continued treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency .
Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly , tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) treatment .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment Consider reducing the dosage of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) to 3 mg once daily for adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Delayed - Release Capsules : 3 mg ( 3 ) Budesonide Delayed - Release Capsules ( enteric coated ) , 3 mg are white to off - white , free flowing pellets , filled in size ' 1 ' hard gelatin capsules having opaque light - orange colored cap printed with " 720 " in black ink and opaque white body .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients in budesonide capsules .
( 4 ) Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis have occurred [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression : Follow general warnings concerning corticosteroids ; pediatrics and patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 , 8 . 6 ) • Symptoms of Steroid Withdrawal in Patients Transferred from Other Systemic Corticosteroids : Taper slowly from corticosteroids with high systemic effects ; monitor for withdrawal symptoms and unmasking of allergies ( rhinitis , eczema ) .
( 5 . 2 ) • Increased Risk of Infection , including Serious and Fatal Chicken Pox and Measles : Monitor patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
( 5 . 3 ) • Other Corticosteroid Effects : Monitor patients with concomitant conditions where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects ( e . g . , hypertension , diabetes mellitus ) .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression When corticosteroids are used chronically , systemic effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression may occur .
Corticosteroids can reduce the response of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis to stress .
In situations where patients are subject to surgery or other stress situations , supplementation with a systemic corticosteroid is recommended .
Since budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) contains a corticosteroid , general warnings concerning corticosteroids should be followed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with Crohn ' s disease have a slightly higher systemic exposure of budesonide and increased cortisol suppression than adults with Crohn ' s disease [ seeUse in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure of oral budesonide .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism and consider reducing the dosage in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Symptoms of Steroid Withdrawal in Patients Transferred from Other Systemic Corticosteroids Monitor patients who are transferred from corticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects to corticosteroids with lower systemic availability , such as budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , since symptoms attributed to withdrawal of steroid therapy , including those of acute adrenal axis suppression or benign intracranial hypertension , may develop .
Adrenocortical function monitoring may be required in these patients and the dose of corticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects should be reduced cautiously .
Replacement of systemic corticosteroids with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may unmask allergies ( e . g . , rhinitis and eczema ) , which were previously controlled by the systemic drug .
5 . 3 Increased Risk of Infection Patients who are on drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infection than healthy individuals .
Chicken pox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible patients or patients on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids .
In patients who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed , therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) , as appropriate , may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See prescribing information for VZIG and IG ) .
If chicken pox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Corticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
5 . 4 Other Corticosteroid Effects Monitor patients with hypertension , diabetes mellitus , osteoporosis , peptic ulcer , glaucoma or cataracts , or with a family history of diabetes or glaucoma , or with any other condition where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in adults are : headache , respiratory infection , nausea , back pain , dyspepsia , dizziness , abdominal pain , flatulence , vomiting , fatigue and pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Symptoms of steroid withdrawal in those patients transferred from other systemic corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Increased risk of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Other corticosteroid effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adults The data described below reflect exposure to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in 520 patients with Crohn ' s disease , including 520 exposed to 9 mg per day ( total daily dose ) for 8 weeks and 145 exposed to 6 mg per day for one year in placebo controlled clinical trials .
Of the 520 patients , 38 % were males and the age range was 17 to 74 years .
Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ' s Disease The safety of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) was evaluated in 651 adult patients in five clinical trials of 8 weeks duration in patients with active mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease .
The most common adverse reactions , occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of the patients , are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 Common Adverse Reactions1 in 8 - Week Treatment Clinical Trials 1 Occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of the patients in any treated group .
2 Prednisolone tapering scheme : either 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg per week ; or 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , 30 mg in week 3 to 4 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg per week .
3 This drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ' s disease in the United States .
Adverse Reaction Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 9 mg n = 520 Number ( % ) Placebo n = 107 Number ( % ) Prednisolone2 40 mg n = 145 Number ( % ) Comparator3 n = 88 Number ( % ) Headache 107 ( 21 ) 19 ( 18 ) 31 ( 21 ) 11 ( 13 ) Respiratory Infection 55 ( 11 ) 7 ( 7 ) 20 ( 14 ) 5 ( 6 ) Nausea 57 ( 11 ) 10 ( 9 ) 18 ( 12 ) 7 ( 8 ) Back Pain 36 ( 7 ) 10 ( 9 ) 17 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Dyspepsia 31 ( 6 ) 4 ( 4 ) 17 ( 12 ) 3 ( 3 ) Dizziness 38 ( 7 ) 5 ( 5 ) 18 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Abdominal Pain 32 ( 6 ) 18 ( 17 ) 6 ( 4 ) 10 ( 11 ) Flatulence 30 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 12 ( 8 ) 5 ( 6 ) Vomiting 29 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 6 ( 4 ) 6 ( 7 ) Fatigue 25 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 11 ( 8 ) 0 ( 0 ) Pain 24 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 17 ( 12 ) 2 ( 2 ) The incidence of signs and symptoms of hypercorticism reported by active questioning of patients in 4 of the 5 short - term clinical trials are displayed in Table 2 .
Table 2 Summary and Incidence of Signs / Symptoms of Hypercorticism in 8 - Week Treatment ClinicalTrials1 Prednisolone tapering scheme : either 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg / week ; or 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , 30 mg in week 3 to 4 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg / week .
2 Statistically significantly different from budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg .
3 including hair growth increased , local and hair growth increased , general .
Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 9 mg n = 427 Placebo n = 107 Prednisolone1 40 mg n = 145 Signs / Symptom Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Total 145 ( 34 % ) 29 ( 27 % ) 69 ( 48 % ) Acne 63 ( 15 ) 14 ( 13 ) 33 ( 23 ) 2 Bruising Easily 63 ( 15 ) 12 ( 11 ) 13 ( 9 ) Moon Face 46 ( 11 ) 4 ( 4 ) 53 ( 37 ) 2 Swollen Ankles 32 ( 7 ) 6 ( 6 ) 13 ( 9 ) Hirsutism3 22 ( 5 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Buffalo hump 6 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Skin Striae 4 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ' s Disease The safety of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) was evaluated in 233 adult patients in four long - term clinical trials ( 52 weeks ) of maintenance of clinical remission in patients with mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease .
A total of 145 patients were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg once daily .
The adverse reaction profile of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg once daily in maintenance of Crohn ' s disease was similar to that of short - term treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg once daily in active Crohn ' s disease .
In the long - term clinical trials , the following adverse reactions occurred in greater than or equal to 5 % and are not listed in Table 1 : diarrhea ( 10 % ) ; sinusitis ( 8 % ) ; infection viral ( 6 % ) ; and arthralgia ( 5 % ) .
Signs / symptoms of hypercorticism reported by active questioning of patients in the long - term maintenance clinical trials are displayed in Table 3 .
Table 3 Summary and Incidence of Signs / Symptoms of Hypercorticism in Long - Term Studies Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 3 mg n = 88 Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 6 mg n = 145 Placebo n = 143 Signs / Symptom Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Bruising easily 4 ( 5 ) 15 ( 10 ) 5 ( 4 ) Acne 4 ( 5 ) 14 ( 10 ) 3 ( 2 ) Moon face 3 ( 3 ) 6 ( 4 ) 0 Hirsutism 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) 1 ( 1 ) Swollen ankles 2 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) Buffalo hump 1 ( 1 ) 1 ( 1 ) 0 Skin striae 2 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 The incidence of signs / symptoms of hypercorticism as described above in long - term maintenance clinical trials was similar to that seen in the short - term treatment clinical trials .
Less Common Adverse Reactions in Treatment and Maintenance Clinical Trials Less common adverse reactions ( less than 5 % ) , occurring in adult patients treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg ( total daily dose ) in short - term treatment clinical studies and / or budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg ( total daily dose ) in long - term maintenance clinical trials , with an incidence are listed below by system organ class : Cardiac disorders : palpitation , tachycardia Eye disorders : eye abnormality , vision abnormal General disorders and administration site conditions : asthenia , chest pain , dependent edema , face edema , flu - like disorder , malaise , fever Gastrointestinal disorders : anus disorder , enteritis , epigastric pain , gastrointestinal fistula , glossitis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , tongue edema , tooth disorder Infections and infestations : Ear infection - not otherwise specified , bronchitis , abscess , rhinitis , urinary tract infection , thrush Investigations : weight increased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : appetite increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : arthritis , cramps , myalgia Nervous system disorders : hyperkinesia , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo , somnolence , amnesia Psychiatric disorders : agitation , confusion , insomnia , nervousness , sleep disorder Renal and urinary disorders : dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia Reproductive system and breast disorders : intermenstrual bleeding , menstrual disorder Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea , pharynx disorder Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia , dermatitis , eczema , skin disorder , sweating increased , purpura Vascular disorders : flushing , hypertension Bone Mineral Density A randomized , open , parallel - group multicenter safety clinical trial specifically compared the effect of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( less than 9 mg per day ) and prednisolone ( less than 40 mg per day ) on bone mineral density over 2 years when used at doses adjusted to disease severity .
Bone mineral density decreased significantly less with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) than with prednisolone in steroid - naïve patients , whereas no difference could be detected between treatment groups for steroid - dependent patients and previous steroid users .
The incidence of symptoms associated with hypercorticism was significantly higher with prednisolone treatment .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials , irrespective of relationship to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , were reported in greater than or equal to 1 % of patients : hypokalemia , leukocytosis , anemia , hematuria , pyuria , erythrocyte sedimentation rate increased , alkaline phosphatase increased , atypical neutrophils , c - reactive protein increased and adrenal insufficiency .
Pediatrics - Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ' s Disease Adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients 8 to 17 years of age , who weigh more than 25 kg , were similar to those reactions described above in adult patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders : Anaphylactic reactions Nervous System Disorders : Benign intracranial hypertension Psychiatric Disorders : Mood swings 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , grapefruit juice ) : Can increase systemic budesonide concentrations : avoid use .
( 2 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 .
Avoid use with CYP3A4 inhibitors .
Concomitant oral administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ( ketoconazole ) caused an eight - fold increase of the systemic exposure to oral budesonide .
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , indinavir , saquinavir , erythromycin , and cyclosporine ) can increase systemic budesonide concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Grapefruit Juice Avoid ingestion of grapefruit juice with budesonide .
Intake of grapefruit juice which inhibits CYP3A4 activity with budesonide can increase the systemic exposure for budesonide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited published studies report on the use of budesonide in pregnant women ; however , the data are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are clinical considerations [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies with pregnant rats and rabbits , administration of subcutaneous budesonide during organogenesis at doses approximately 0 . 5 times or 0 . 05 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose , resulted in increased fetal loss , decreased pup weights , and skeletal abnormalities .
Maternal toxicity was observed in both rats and rabbits at these dose levels [ see Data ] .
Based on animal data , advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage of the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Some published epidemiological studies show an association of adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with Crohn ' s disease , including preterm birth and low birth weight infants , during periods of increased disease activity ( including increased stool frequency and abdominal pain ) .
Pregnant women with Crohn ' s disease should be counseled regarding the importance of controlling disease .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Hypoadrenalism may occur in infants born of mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Infants should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism , such as poor feeding , irritability , weakness , and vomiting , and managed accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Budesonide was teratogenic and embryolethal in rabbits and rats .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed subcutaneously with budesonide during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 to 15 there were effects on fetal development and survival at subcutaneous doses up to approximately 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 to 18 , there was an increase in maternal abortion , and effects on fetal development and reduction in litter weights at subcutaneous doses up to approximately 25 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , including reduction in body weight gain , was observed at subcutaneous doses of 5 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 01 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In a peri - and post - natal development study , rats dosed subcutaneously with budesonide during the period of Day 15 post coitum to Day 21 postpartum , budesonide had no effects on delivery but did have an effect on growth and development of offspring .
In addition , offspring survival was reduced and surviving offspring had decreased mean body weights at birth and during lactation at exposures 0 . 02 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2basis at maternal subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg / day and higher ) .
These findings occurred in the presence of maternal toxicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted with oral budesonide , including budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , and no information is available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 3 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 4 and 0 . 5 .
Budesonide plasma concentrations were not detected and no adverse events were noted in the breastfed infants following maternal use of inhaled budesonide .
The recommended daily dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) is higher ( up to 9 mg daily ) compared with inhaled budesonide ( up to 800 mcg daily ) given to mothers in the above described study .
The maximum budesonide plasma concentration following a 9 mg daily dose ( in both single - and repeated - dose pharmacokinetic studies ) of oral budesonide is approximately 2 . 15 to 4 . 31 ng / mL which is up to 10 times higher than the 0 . 43 to 0 . 86 ng / mL for a 800 mcg daily dose of inhaled budesonide at steady state in the above inhalation study .
Assuming the coefficient of extrapolation between the inhaled and oral doses is constant across all dose levels , at therapeutic doses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , budesonide exposure to the nursing child may be up to 10 times higher than that by budesonide inhalation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) have been established in pediatric patients 8 to 17 years of age who weigh more than 25 kg for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
Use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well controlled studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in adults , with additional data from 2 clinical studies in 149 pediatric patients treated up to 8 weeks and one pharmacokinetic study in 8 pediatric patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The observed safety profile of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in pediatric patients is consistent with its known safety profile in adults and no new safety concerns were identified [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) have not been established in pediatric patients less than 8 years of age for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
The safety and effectiveness of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) have not been established in pediatric patients for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease .
An open - label study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) as maintenance treatment in pediatric patients aged 5 to 17 years was conducted , and did not establish the safety and efficacy of maintenance of clinical remission .
Systemic corticosteroids , including budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , may cause a reduction of growth velocity in pediatric patients .
Pediatric patients with Crohn ' s disease have a 17 % higher mean systemic exposure and cortisol suppression than adults with Crohn ' s disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Of the 651 patients treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in clinical studies , 17 ( 3 % ) were greater than or equal to 65 years of age and none were greater than 74 years of age .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C , respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure to budesonide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism and consider dosage reduction in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE Reports of acute toxicity and / or death following overdosage of glucocorticoids are rare .
Treatment consists of immediate gastric lavage or emesis followed by supportive and symptomatic therapy .
If corticosteroids are used at excessive doses for prolonged periods , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression may occur .
For chronic overdosage in the case of severe disease requiring continuous steroid therapy , the dosage may be reduced temporarily .
Single oral doses of 200 and 400 mg / kg were lethal in female and male mice , respectively .
The signs of acute toxicity were decreased motor activity , piloerection and generalized edema .
11 DESCRIPTION Budesonide USP , the active ingredient of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) , is a synthetic corticosteroid .
Budesonide is designated chemically as ( RS ) - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with butyraldehyde .
Budesonide is provided as a mixture of two epimers ( 22 R and 22 S ) .
The molecular formula of budesonide is C25H34O6 and its molecular weight is 430 . 5 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Budesonide , USP is a white to off - white , odorless , crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water and heptane , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and freely soluble in chloroform .
Its partition coefficient between octanol and water at pH 5 is 1 . 6 x 103 ionic strength 0 . 01 .
Each capsule for oral administration contains 3 mg of micronized budesonide with the following inactive ingredients : acetyltributyl citrate , ethylcellulose aqueous dispersion , gelatin , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , polysorbate 80 , simethicone emulsion , sodium lauryl sulfate , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
The capsule shell is printed with black pharmaceutical ink which contains following ingredients : iron oxide black , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Budesonide is an anti - inflammatory corticosteroid and has a high glucocorticoid effect and a weak mineralocorticoid effect , and the affinity of budesonide to glucocorticoid receptors , which reflects the intrinsic potency of the drug , is about 200 - fold that of cortisol and 15 - fold that of prednisolone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Treatment with glucocorticoids , including budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) is associated with a suppression of endogenous cortisol concentrations and an impairment of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis function .
There was a positive correlation between the percent ( % ) reduction of AUC 0 - 24 of plasma cortisol and systemic exposure to budesonide both in pediatric and adult patients .
Adults Plasma cortisol suppression was compared following five days ' administration of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and prednisolone in a crossover study in healthy volunteers .
The mean decrease in the area under the plasma cortisol concentration - time curve over 24 hour ( AUC0 - 24 ) was greater ( 78 % ) with prednisolone 20 mg per day compared to 45 % with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg per day .
Pediatrics The effect of budesonide on endogenous cortisol concentrations was compared between pediatrics ( n = 8 , aged 9 to 14 years ) and adults ( n = 6 ) with active Crohn ' s disease following administration of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg once daily for 7 days .
Compared to baseline values before treatment , the mean decrease in the AUC0 - 24 of cortisol was 64 % ( ± 18 % ) in pediatrics and 50 % ( ± 27 % ) in adults after budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The responses to adrenocorticotropin challenge ( i . e . , ACTH stimulation test ) was studied in pediatric patients aged 8 to 17 years , with mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease in randomized , double - blind , active control study [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
After 8 weeks of treatment with 9 mg once daily budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) or with prednisolone , administered at tapering doses starting from 1 mg / kg , the proportion of patients with normal response to the ACTH challenge was 6 % in the budesonide group compared to none in the prednisolone group ; the proportion of patients with morning p - cortisol of greater than 5 mcg / dL was 50 % in the budesonide group compared to 22 % in the prednisolone group .
The mean morning p - cortisol was 6 . 3 mcg / dL in the budesonide group and 2 . 6 mcg / dL in the prednisolone group ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 Proportion of Pediatric Patients 8 to 17 years old with Peak Endogenous Cortisol Levels ( above 18 mcg / dL ) after ACTH Stimulation and Normal Response * to ACTH Challenge Following Administration of Budesonide Delayed - Release Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) or Prednisolone for 8 weeks * The normal response to ACTH challenge included 3 criteria , as defined in the cosyntropin label : 1 ) morning cortisol level above 5 mcg / dL ; 2 ) increase in cortisol level by at least 7 mcg / dL above the morning ( pre - challenge ) level following ACTH challenge ; and cortisol level of above 18 mcg / dL following ACTH challenge .
Cortisol concentration was measured at 30 min after intravenous or intramuscular injection of 0 . 25 mg cosyntropin at baseline and at week 8 after treatment .
Budesonide Prednisolone Peak plasma cortisol above 18 mcg / dL At baseline 91 % ( 20 / 22 ) 91 % ( 21 / 23 ) At week 8 25 % ( 4 / 16 ) 0 % ( 0 / 18 ) Normal response * to ACTH challenge At baseline 73 % ( 16 / 22 ) 78 % ( 18 / 23 ) At week 8 6 % ( 1 / 16 ) 0 % ( 0 / 18 ) 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Mean oral bioavailability of budesonide ranged from 9 % to 21 % both in patients and in healthy subjects , demonstrating a high first - pass elimination of the drug .
Budesonide pharmacokinetics were dose - proportional following repeated administration in the dose range of 3 to 15 mg .
No accumulation of budesonide was observed following repeated dosing .
Following oral administration of a single dose of 9 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in healthy subjects under fasting condition , the mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and the area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) for budesonide were 1 . 50 ± 0 . 79 ng / mL and 14 . 13 ± 7 . 33 ng • hr / mL , respectively .
The time to peak concentration ( Tmax ) varied between 2 and 8 hours with a median value of 3 . 5 hours .
In a different study , following oral administration of 9 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) for five days in healthy subjects , the mean Cmax and the steady state AUC for budesonide were 2 . 28 ± 0 . 77 ng / mL and 15 . 93 ± 6 . 29 ng • hr / mL , respectively .
Following administration of 9 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) once daily in patients with active Crohn ' s disease , the mean Cmax and AUC were 1 . 7 ± 0 . 9 ng / mL and 15 . 1 ± 8 . 5 ng • hr / mL , respectively .
Following administration of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , the Tmax ranged in individual patients from 0 . 5 to 10 hours .
Concomitant administration of a high - fat meal delayed the Tmax of budesonide by 2 . 3 hours compared to that under fasted conditions but did not significantly affect the AUC in healthy subjects .
The mean Cmax and AUC of budesonide were similar when single dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( 9 mg ) was administered after opening the capsules and sprinkling the granules on applesauce versus as intact capsules in the fasted state ( N = 24 ) in healthy subjects .
The Tmax ranged from 3 to 10 hours with a median of 4 hours after administration of sprinkled granules on appleasauce .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution ( Vss ) of budesonide varied between 2 . 2 and 3 . 9 L / kg in healthy subjects and in patients .
Plasma protein binding was estimated to be 85 % to 90 % in the concentration range 0 . 43 to 99 . 02 ng / mL , independent of gender .
The erythrocyte / plasma partition ratio at clinically relevant concentrations was about 0 . 8 .
Elimination Budesonide had a plasma clearance , 0 . 9 to 1 . 8 L / min in healthy adults .
Mean plasma clearance after intravenous administration of budesonide in patients with Crohn ' s disease was 1 . 0 L / min .
These plasma clearance values approached the estimated liver blood flow , and , accordingly , suggest that budesonide is a high hepatic clearance drug .
The plasma elimination half - life after administration of intravenous doses ranged between 2 and 3 . 6 hours , and did not differ between healthy adults and patients with Crohn ' s disease .
The mean ± SD plasma elimination half - life after a single dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( 9 mg ) in the fasted state ( N = 24 ) in healthy subjects was 6 . 3 ± 1 . 6 hours and ranged between 2 and 8 hours .
Metabolism Following absorption , budesonide is subject to high first pass metabolism ( 80 % to 90 % ) .
In vitro experiments in human liver microsomes demonstrated that budesonide is rapidly and extensively biotransformed , mainly by CYP3A4 , to its 2 major metabolites , 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone .
The corticosteroid activity of these metabolites was negligible ( less than 1 / 100 ) in relation to that of the parent compound .
In vivo investigations with intravenous doses in healthy subjects were in agreement with the in vitro findings .
Excretion Budesonide was excreted in urine and feces in the form of metabolites .
After oral as well as intravenous administration of micronized [ 3 H ] - budesonide , approximately 60 % of the recovered radioactivity was found in urine .
The major metabolites , including 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone , are mainly renally excreted , intact or in conjugated forms .
No unchanged budesonide was detected in urine .
Specific Populations Age : Pediatric Population ( 8 years and older ) The pharmacokinetics of budesonide were investigated in pediatric patients aged 9 to 14 years ( n = 8 ) after oral administration of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and intravenous administration of budesonide .
Following administration of 9 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) once daily for 7 days , the median time to peak plasma concentration of budesonide was 5 hours and the mean peak plasma concentration was 2 . 58 ± 1 . 51 ng / mL .
The mean AUC was 17 . 78 ± 5 . 25 ng • hr / mL and 17 % higher than that in adult patients with Crohn ' s disease in the same study .
The mean absolute oral availability was 9 . 2 % ( 3 to 17 % ; n = 4 ) in pediatric patients .
After single dose administration of intravenous budesonide ( n = 4 ) , the mean volume of distribution ( Vss ) was 2 . 2 ± 0 . 4 L / kg and mean clearance was 0 . 81 ± 0 . 2 L / min .
The mean elimination half - life was 1 . 9 hours in pediatric patients .
The body - weight normalized clearance in pediatric patients was 20 . 5 mL / min / kg in comparison to 15 . 9 mL / min / kg in adult patients after intravenous administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A , n = 4 ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B , n = 4 ) hepatic impairment , budesonide 4 mg was administered orally as a single dose .
The patients with moderate hepatic impairment had a 3 . 5 - fold higher AUC compared to the healthy subjects with normal hepatic function while the patients with mild hepatic impairment had an approximately 1 . 4 - fold higher AUC .
The Cmax values demonstrated similar increases [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The increased systemic exposure in patients with mild hepatic impairment was not considered to be clinically relevant .
Patients with severe liver impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) were not studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Budesonide is metabolized via CYP3A4 .
Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 can increase the plasma concentrations of budesonide several - fold .
Conversely , induction of CYP3A4 potentially could result in the lowering of budesonide plasma concentrations .
Effects of Other Drugs on Budesonide Ketoconazole In an open , non - randomized , cross - over study , 6 healthy subjects were given budesonide 10 mg as a single dose , either alone or concomitantly with the last ketoconazole dose of 3 days treatment with ketoconazole 100 mg twice daily .
Co - administration of ketoconazole resulted in an eight - fold increase in AUC of budesonide , compared to budesonide alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Grapefruit Juice In an open , randomized , cross - over study , 8 healthy subjects were given budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 3 mg , either alone , or concomitantly with 600 mL concentrated grapefruit juice ( which inhibits CYP3A4 activity predominantly in the intestinal mucosa ) , on the last of 4 daily administrations .
Concomitant administration of grapefruit juice resulted in a 2 - fold increase of the bioavailability of budesonide compared to budesonide alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Oral Contraceptives ( CYP3A4 Substrates ) In a parallel study , the pharmacokinetics of budesonide were not significantly different between healthy female subjects who received oral contraceptives containing desogestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol 30 μg and healthy female subjects who did not receive oral contraceptives .
Budesonide 4 . 5 mg once daily ( one - half the recommended dose ) for one week did not affect the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol , a CYP3A4 substrate .
The effect of budesonide 9 mg once daily on the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol was not studied .
Omeprazole In a study in 11 healthy subjects , performed in a double - blind , randomized , placebo controlled manner , the effect of 5 to 6 days treatment with omeprazole 20 mg once daily on the pharmacokinetics of budesonide administered as budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg as a single dose was investigated .
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily did not affect the absorption or pharmacokinetics of budesonide .
Cimetidine In an open , non - randomized , cross - over study , the potential effect of cimetidine on the pharmacokinetics of budesonide was studied .
Six healthy subjects received cimetidine 1 gram daily ( 200 mg with meals and 400 mg at night ) for 2 separate 3 - day periods .
Budesonide 4 mg was administered either alone or on the last day of one of the cimetidine treatment periods .
Co - administration of cimetidine resulted in a 52 % and 31 % increase in the budesonide peak plasma concentration and the AUC of budesonide , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with budesonide were conducted in rats and mice .
In a two - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of gliomas in male rats at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In addition , there were increased incidences of primary hepatocellular tumors in male rats at 25 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 023 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No tumorigenicity was seen in female rats at oral doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In an additional two - year study in male Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused no gliomas at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
The concurrent reference corticosteroids ( prednisolone and triamcinolone acetonide ) showed similar findings .
In a 91 - week study in mice , budesonide caused no treatment - related carcinogenicity at oral doses up to 200 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
Budesonide was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell forward gene mutation ( TK + / - ) test , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , the Drosophila melanogaster sex - linked recessive lethality test , the rat hepatocyte UDS test and the mouse micronucleus test .
In rats , budesonide had no effect on fertility at subcutaneous doses up to 80 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 07 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a decrease in prenatal viability and viability in pups at birth and during lactation , along with a decrease in maternal body - weight gain , at subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 02 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No such effects were noted at 5 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 005 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease Adults The efficacy of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) were evaluated in 994 patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease of the ileum and / or ascending colon in 5 randomized and double - blind studies of 8 weeks duration .
The study patients ranged in age from 17 to 85 ( mean 35 ) , 40 % were male and 97 % were white .
The Crohn ' s Disease Activity Index ( CDAI ) was the main clinical assessment used for determining efficacy in these 5 studies . 1 The CDAI is a validated index based on subjective aspects rated by the patient ( frequency of liquid or very soft stools , abdominal pain rating and general well - being ) and objective observations ( number of extraintestinal symptoms , need for antidiarrheal drugs , presence of abdominal mass , body weight and hematocrit ) .
Clinical improvement , defined as a CDAI score of less than or equal to 150 assessed after 8 weeks of treatment , was the primary efficacy variable in these 5 comparative efficacy studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Safety assessments in these studies included monitoring of adverse reactions .
A checklist of potential symptoms of hypercorticism was used .
One study ( Study 1 ) compared the efficacy of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily in the morning to a comparator .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 272 .
budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily resulted in a significantly higher clinical improvement rate at Week 8 than the comparator .
See Table 5 .
Table 5 Clinical Improvement Rates ( CDAI less than or equal to 150 ) After 8 weeks of Treatment 1 .
p = 0 . 0004 compared to comparator .
2 .
p = 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
3 .
This drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ' s disease in the United States .
Clinical Study Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 9 mg Daily Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 4 . 5 mg Twice Daily Comparator3 Placebo Prednisolone 1 62 / 91 ( 69 % ) 1 37 / 83 ( 45 % ) 2 31 / 61 ( 51 % ) 2 13 / 64 ( 20 % ) 3 38 / 79 ( 48 % ) 41 / 78 ( 53 % ) 13 / 40 ( 33 % ) 4 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 25 / 60 ( 42 % ) 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 5 45 / 86 ( 52 % ) 56 / 85 ( 65 % ) Two placebo - controlled clinical trials ( Studies 2 and 3 ) were conducted .
Study 2 involved 258 patients and tested the effects of graded doses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( 1 . 5 mg twice daily , 4 . 5 mg twice daily , or 7 . 5 mg twice daily ) versus placebo .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 290 .
The 1 . 5 mg twice daily arm ( data not shown ) could not be differentiated from placebo .
The 4 . 5 mg twice daily arm was statistically different from placebo ( Table 5 ) , while no additional benefit was seen when the daily budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) dose was increased to 15 mg per day ( data not shown ) .
Study 3 was a 3 - armed parallel group study .
The groups were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg once daily , budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 4 . 5 mg twice daily and placebo for 8 weeks , followed by a 2 - week double - blind taper phase .
The median CDAI at baseline was 263 .
Neither 9 mg daily nor 4 . 5 mg twice daily budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) dose levels were statistically different from placebo ( Table 5 ) .
The recommended dosage of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon in adults is 9 mg once daily in the morning for up to 8 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Two clinical trials ( Studies 4 and 5 ) compared budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) with oral prednisolone ( initial dose 40 mg per day ) .
Study 4 was a 3 - armed parallel group study .
The groups were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg once daily , budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 4 . 5 mg twice daily and prednisolone 40 mg ( tapered dose ) for 8 weeks , followed by a 4 - week double blind taper phase .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 277 .
Equal clinical improvement rates ( 60 % ) were seen in the budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily and the prednisolone groups in Study 4 .
In Study 5 , 13 % fewer patients in the budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) group experienced clinical improvement than in the prednisolone group ( no statistical difference ) ( Table 5 ) .
The proportion of patients with normal plasma cortisol values ( greater than 64 . 58 ng / mL ) was significantly higher in the budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) groups in both trials ( 60 % to 66 % ) than in the prednisolone groups ( 26 % to 28 % ) at Week 8 .
Pediatrics ( 8 to 17 Years of Age ) The effectiveness of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , in pediatric patients aged 8 to 17 years , who weigh more than 25 kg with mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease ( defined as Crohn ' s Disease Activity Index ( CDAI ) ≥ 200 ) involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon , was assessed in one randomized , double - blind , active control study .
This study compared budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg once daily , with prednisolone , administered at tapering doses starting from 1 mg / kg .
Twenty - two ( 22 ) patients were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) capsules and 24 patients were treated with prednisolone .
After 8 weeks of treatment , 55 % ( 95 % CI : 32 % , 77 % ) of patients treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) reached the endpoint ( CDAI ≤ 150 ) , as compared to 68 % ( 95 % CI : 47 % , 89 % ) of patients treated with prednisolone .
The average number of liquid or very soft stools per day ( assessed over 7 days ) decreased from 1 . 49 at baseline to 0 . 96 after treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and 2 . 00 at baseline to 0 . 52 after treatment with prednisolone .
The average daily abdominal pain rating ( where 0 = none , 1 = mild , 2 = moderate , and 3 = severe ) decreased from 1 . 49 at baseline to 0 . 54 after treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and 1 . 64 at baseline to 0 . 38 after 8 weeks of treatment with prednisolone .
Use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in adults , and by safety and pharmacokinetic studies performed in pediatric patients .
14 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease Adults The efficacy of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) for maintenance of clinical remission were evaluated in four double - blind , placebo - controlled , 12 - month trials in which 380 patients were randomized and treated once daily with 3 mg or 6 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) or placebo .
Patients ranged in age from 18 to 73 ( mean 37 ) years .
Sixty percent of the patients were female and 99 % were Caucasian .
The mean CDAI at entry was 96 .
Among the four clinical trials , approximately 75 % of the patients enrolled had exclusively ileal disease .
Colonoscopy was not performed following treatment .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day prolonged the time to relapse , defined as an increase in CDAI of at least 60 units to a total score greater than 150 or withdrawal due to disease deterioration .
The median time to relapse in the pooled population of the 4 studies was 154 days for patients taking placebo , and 268 days for patients taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day reduced the proportion of patients with loss of symptom control relative to placebo in the pooled population for the 4 studies at 3 months ( 28 % versus 45 % for placebo ) .
15 REFERENCES • Best WR , Becktel JM , Singleton JW , Kern F : Development of a Crohn ' s Disease Activity Index , National Cooperative Crohn ' s Disease Study .
Gastroenterology 1976 ; 70 ( 3 ) : 439 - 444 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Budesonide Delayed - Release Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 3 mg are white to off - white , free flowing pellets , filled in size ' 1 ' hard gelatin capsules having opaque light - orange colored cap printed with " 720 " in black ink and opaque white body and are supplied as follows : NDC 68382 - 720 - 06 in bottle of 30 capsules NDC 68382 - 720 - 16 in bottle of 90 capsules NDC 68382 - 720 - 01 in bottle of 100 capsules NDC 68382 - 720 - 05 in bottle of 500 capsules NDC 68382 - 720 - 10 in bottle of 1 , 000 capsules NDC 68382 - 720 - 77 in unit - dose blister carton of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) unit - dose capsules Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise Patients to read the FDA - Approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression Advise patients that budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression and to follow a taper schedule , as instructed by their healthcare provider if transferring to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) from systemic corticosteroids [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that replacement of systemic corticosteroids with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may unmask allergies ( e . g . , rhinitis and eczema ) , which were previously controlled by the systemic drug .
Increased Risk of Infection Advise patients to avoid exposure to people with chicken pox or measles and , if exposed , to consult their healthcare provider immediately .
Inform patients that they are at increased risk of developing a variety of infections ; including worsening of existing tuberculosis , fungal , bacterial , viral or parasitic infections or ocular herpes simplex and to contact their healthcare provider if they develop any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise female patients that budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause fetal harm and to inform their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Administration • Take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) once daily in the morning .
• Swallow budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule , budesonide delayed - release capsules can be opened and administered as follows : • Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container ( e . g . , empty bowl ) .
The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing .
• Open the capsule ( s ) .
• Carefully empty all the granules inside the capsule ( s ) on the applesauce .
• Mix the granules with the applesauce .
• Consume the entire contents within 30 minutes of mixing .
Do not chew or crush the granules .
Do not save the applesauce and granules for future use .
• Follow the applesauce and granules immediately with a glass ( 8 ounces ) of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the granules .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of their budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 10 / 20 PATIENT MEDICATION INFORMATION SECTION PATIENT INFORMATION Budesonide ( bue des ' oh nide ) Delayed - Release Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) Read this Patient Information before you start taking budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease that affects part of the small intestine ( ileum ) and part of the large intestine ( ascending colon ) : • in people 8 years of age and older with active Crohn ' s disease • in adults to help keep symptoms from coming back for up to 3 months It is not known if budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are safe and effective in children under 8 years of age , or in children 8 to 17 years of age who weigh 55 pounds ( 25 kg ) or less , for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease that affects part of the small intestine ( ileum ) and part of the large intestine ( ascending colon ) .
It is not known if budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are safe and effective in children to help keep symptoms of mild to moderate Crohn ' s disease that affects part of the small intestine ( ileum ) and part of the large intestine ( ascending colon ) from coming back .
Who should not take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Do not take budesonide delayed - release capsules s ( enteric coated ) if : • you are allergic to budesonide or any of the ingredients in budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Before you take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) tell your healthcare provider if you have any other medical conditions including if you : • have liver problems .
• are planning to have surgery .
• have chicken pox or measles or have recently been near anyone with chicken pox or measles .
• have an infection .
• have diabetes or glaucoma or have a family history of diabetes or glaucoma .
• have cataracts .
• have or had tuberculosis .
• have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
• have decreased bone mineral density ( osteoporosis ) .
• have stomach ulcers .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) may harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the possible risk to your unborn baby if you take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) when you are pregnant .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during your treatment with budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
How should I take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how many budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) to take .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• Take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) 1 time each day in the morning .
• Take budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) whole .
Do not chew or crush budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) before swallowing .
• For patients , unable to swallow a whole capsule , budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) can be opened and administered as follows : • Place 1 tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container , such as an empty bowl .
The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing .
• Open the capsule .
You may need to use more than 1 budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) for the dose prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Carefully empty all of the granules inside the capsule on the applesauce .
• Stir the granules with the applesauce .
• Swallow the applesauce and granules mixture within 30 minutes after preparing it .
Follow the applesauce and granules immediately with a glass ( 8 ounces ) of cool water to help with complete swallowing of the granules .
• Do not chew or crush the granules .
• Do not save the applesauce and granules for later use .
• If you take too much budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Do not drink grapefruit juice during your treatment with budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Drinking grapefruit juice can increase the level of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) in your blood .
What are the possible side effects of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause serious side effects , including : • Effects of having too much corticosteroid medicine in your blood ( hypercorticism ) .
Long - time use of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) can cause you to have too much corticosteroid medicine in your blood .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of hypercorticism : • acne • bruise easily • rounding of your face ( moon face ) • ankle swelling • thicker or more hair on your body and face • a fatty pad or hump between your shoulders ( buffalo hump ) • pink or purple stretch marks on the skin of your abdomen , thighs , breasts and arms • Adrenal suppression .
When budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) are taken for a long period of time ( chronic use ) , adrenal suppression can happen .
This is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Symptoms of adrenal suppression include : tiredness , weakness , nausea and vomiting and low blood pressure .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are under stress or have any symptoms of adrenal suppression during treatment with budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• Worsening of allergies .
If you take certain other corticosteroid medicines to treat allergies , switching to budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause your allergies to come back .
These allergies may include a skin condition called eczema or inflammation inside your nose ( rhinitis ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if any of your allergies become worse while taking budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• Increased risk of infection .
Budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) weakens your immune system .
Taking medicines that weaken your immune system makes you more likely to get infections .
Avoid contact with people who have contagious diseases , such as chicken pox or measles , while taking budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you come in contact with anyone who has chicken pox or measles .
• Tell your healthcare provider about any signs or symptoms of infection during treatment with budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) , including : • fever • chills • pain • feeling tired • aches • nausea and vomiting The most common side effects of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) in adults include : • headache • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • infection in your air passages ( respiratory infection ) • gas • nausea • vomiting • back pain • tiredness • indigestion • pain • dizziness The most common side effects of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) in children 8 to 17 years of age , who weigh more than 55 pounds ( 25 kg ) , are similar to the most common side effects in adults .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Store budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) in a tightly closed container .
Keep budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) that is written for health professionals .
Please address medical inquiries to MedicalAffairs @ zydususa . com or Tel . : 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 .
What are the ingredients in budesonide delayed - release capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Active ingredient : budesonide , USP Inactive ingredients : acetyltributyl citrate , ethylcellulose aqueous dispersion , gelatin , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , polysorbate 80 , simethicone emulsion , sodium lauryl sulfate , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
The capsule shell is printed with black pharmaceutical ink which contains following ingredients : iron oxide black , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol and shellac .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 10 / 20 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68382 - 720 - 01 in bottle of 100 capsules Budesonide Delayed - Release capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 3 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
