Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 1200 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
• If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
• Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
• May stain some fabrics .
Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun production measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a Doctor Inactive ingredients Isobutane , Water , Isohexadecane , Ethylhexyl Benzoate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Dibutyl Adipate , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Sodium Chloride , PEG - 8 , Caprylyl Glycol , Glycerin , Sodium Citrate , PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Octyldodecanol , Retinyl Palmitate , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Propoxyhydroxypropyl Thiosulfate Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Methylparaben , Butylparaben , Ethylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Propylparaben .
Other information protect this product from excessing heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 697 - 9868 Mon - Fri Principal Display Panel NDC : 41250 - 928 - 55 meijer tear free Kids Sunscreen continuous spray pediatrician tested UVA / UVB protection 50 + Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) NET WT 6 OZ .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
