Active Ingredient Stannous Fluoride , 0 . 63 % Purpose Anticavity / Antigingivitis Uses • Aids in the prevention of dental decay • Helps prevent gingivitis • Helps interfere with harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for rinsing is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not swallow .
Directions • Do not use before mixing with water • Adults and children 6 years of age and older : - Use once per day after brushing your teeth with toothpaste - Remove cap and replace with pump - Rotate spout counter clockwise to extend - Depress pump until rinse comes to the tip of the pump - Pump 1 / 8 fl .
oz .
into a cup .
- Add water to the line ( 1 fl .
oz . )
on cup .
- Mix using bristle end of toothbrush - Vigorously swish rinse between your teeth for 1 min .
and then spit out .
- Do not swallow the rinse - Do not eat or drink for 30 min .
after rinsing - Instruct children under 12 in good rinsing habits to minimize swallowing .
- Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • Children under 6 : Consult a dentist or doctor Other Information • Store at room temperature 59 – 86 ° F ( 15 – 30 ° C ) .
• This product may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate tooth brushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
Inactive Ingredients Edetic acid , Flavor , Glycerin , Saccharin Sodium , Xylitol For a Healthier & Happier Mouth EVEREST Periodontal Rinse works immidately to disinfect , prevent decay , and reduce painful tooth & gum sensitivity .
Gentle on your teeth and tough on cavities - for a deeper clean you ' ll feel all day .
Prevents Gingivitis Reduce Gum Bleeding Plaque Crusher Freshens Breath Manufactured by : Alpine Dental , Inc .
Brooklyn , NY 11218 1 - 800 - 553 - 3682 Made in USA Everest Oral Care Perio Maintenance Oral Rinse Antigingivitis + Anticavity Advanced Fluoride Concentrate with Xylitol Alcohol Free Mint 10 fl oz ( 296 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
