Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 yeard of age - do not use • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , zinc chloride , sodium benzoate , sucralose , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 * This product is not manufactured or distribted by Johnson + Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Ultraclean With Everfresh Technology - Artic Mint .
Distributed by : Rite Aid , 30 Hunter Lane , Camp Hill , PA 17011 All Righes Reserved Shop Target . com DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - M - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 principal display panel SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION * Compare to the active ingredients in Listerine Ultraclean Arctic Mint Rite Aid oral care tartar control plus antiseptic mouth rinse ice mint antigingivitis / antiplaque long lasting clean feel controls tartar that can discolor teeth kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque & the gum disease gingivitis 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
