Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % minoxidil topical solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before ue if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men • in clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredients alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water , Questions or comments ?
Call + 1 800 - 996 - 5122 onday to Friday at 8 am to 5 pm EST .
Visit our website at www . innovuspharma . com Consumer Informaition MEN ' S REGOXIDINE EXTRA STRENGTH 5 % Minoxidil Topical Solution , USP HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Unscented Save this leaflet for future reference It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
Please read this leaflet carefully .
It will help you understand how to use Regoxidine Extra Strength and what to expect from its use .
If you have any questions after reading this leaflet , or anytime while using Regoxidine Extra Strength , you should ask your healthcare professional or call us at + 1 - 800 - 996 - 5122 .
you can also contact us at our website at www . innovuspharma . com What is Mens ' Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Regoxidine Extra Strength is a colorless liquid medication containing 5 % minoxidil for use only on the scalp to help regrow hair in men .
Who may use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Regoxidine Extra Strength is for use only by men .
Regoxidine Extra Strength may be appropriate for you if you are a male at least 18 years old and experiencing gradually thinning hair or gradual hair loss on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , as shown on the illustration that follows ) .
It is not intended for frontal baldness or a receding hairline .
The common inherited thinning or hair loss process begins slowly and may become noticeable only after years of gradual loss .
Regoxidine Extra Strength is for men with hair loss or thinning hair that begins on the vertex of the scalp .
Regoxidine Extra Strength is more likely to regrow hair in men with hair loss in the range shown below .
If men have more hair loss than shown , Regoxidine Extra Strength may not work .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Many of those experiencing hair loss have other family members with gradual thinning hair or hair loss .
If you have no family history of gradual thinning hair or of gradual hair loss , or your hair loss is patchy , see your doctor .
Who should not use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Women should not use Regoxidine Extra Strength because studies have shown it works no better in women than Women ' s 2 % Minoxidil Topical Solution .
Some women may also grow facial hair .
In addition , Regoxidine Extra Strength may be harmful if used during pregnancy or breast - feeding .
• Regoxidine Extra Strength should not be used on babies or for children under 18 years old .
• Regoxidine Extra Strength will not prevent or improve hair loss which may occur with the use of some prescription and non - prescription medications , certain severe nutritional problems ( very low body iron ; too much vitamin A intake ) , low thyroid states ( hypothyroidism ) , chemotherapy , or diseases which cause scarring of the scalp .
Also , Regoxidine Extra Strength will not improve hair loss due to : • damage from the use of hair care products which cause scarring or deep burns of the scalp .
• hair grooming methods such as cornrowing or ponytails which require pulling the hair tightly back from the scalp .
Do not use if you are not sure of the reason for your hair loss .
Will Regoxidine Extra Strength work for me ?
The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
Not everyone will respond to Regoxidine Extra Strength .
The response to Regoxidine Extra Strength cannot be predicted .
It is unlikely anyone will be able to grow back all their hair .
However , to see your best results with Regoxidine Extra Strength , make sure you get the medicine directly to the scalp and apply it twice a day , every day .
You may get better results if you have been losing your hair for a short period of time or have little hair loss .
However , for some men Regoxidine Extra Strength may not work .
How soon can I expect results from using Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Since normal hair usually grows only 1 / 2 to 1 inch per month , hair regrowth with Regoxidine Extra Strength also takes time .
Results may be seen as early as 2 months with twice daily use .
For some men , it may take at least 4 months for results to be seen .
If you do not see any results after 4 months , stop using Regoxidine Extra Strength .
When you first begin to use Regoxidine Extra Strength , your hair loss may increase temporarily for up to 2 weeks .
This is likely a sign that you are getting rid of old hairs in order to regrow more new hairs .
This temporary increase in hair loss is expected and is a part of the process for how Regoxidine Extra Strength regrows hair .
Remember , this increased hair loss is temporary .
However , if it continues after two weeks , see your doctor .
What Minimal , Moderate and Dense Hair Regrowth Will Mean for You ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If Regoxidine Extra Strength is working , what will the hair look like ?
At first , hair growth is usually soft , downy , colorless hairs ( like peach fuzz ) .
After further use , the new hairs should be the same color and thickness as the other hairs on your scalp .
How long do I need to use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
If you experience hair regrowth , continued use of Regoxidine Extra Strength is necessary or the hair loss will begin again .
In studies with 5 % minoxidil topical solution , hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks of continuous treatment in large clinical trials .
What happens if I completely stop using Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Will I keep the new hair ?
Continuous use of Regoxidine Extra Strength is needed to maintain hair regrowth .
If you stop using Regoxidine Extra Strength , you will lose your newly regrown hair in 3 to 4 months .
How do I use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
For best results , apply 1 mL with applicator 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
Using more or using more often will not improve results .
Each bottle should last one month , if used as directed .
Allow time for Regoxidine Extra Strength to dry completely before wearing a hat , or lying on a pillow , etc .
Regoxidine Extra Strength may cause staining of clothing or linens if damp on the scalp .
When applying Regoxidine Extra Strength at night , be sure to allow 2 to 4 hours to dry completely .
Never take this product by mouth or apply to other parts of the body .
When do I use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Apply Regoxidine Extra Strength once in the morning and once at night .
The nighttime application should occur 2 to 4 hours before going to bed to allow for drying .
Each bottle should last one month , if used as directed .
What if I miss a dose or forget to use Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
If you miss one or two daily doses of Regoxidine Extra Strength , just continue with your next dose .
You should not make up for missed doses .
Can I use Regoxidine Extra Strength more than twice a day ?
Will it work faster , better ?
No .
Regoxidine Extra Strength will not work faster or better if used more than two times a day .
Studies have been carefully conducted to determine the correct amount of Regoxidine Extra Strength needed to get the best results .
More frequent use or larger doses have not been shown to speed up hair growth and may increase your chance of side effects .
What kind of shampoo should I use with Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
If you wash your scalp before applying Regoxidine Extra Strength , use a mild shampoo .
Can I use hair sprays , mousses , conditioners , gels , etc . ?
Yes .
Hair sprays , spritz , or styling aids may be used on your hair while using Regoxidine Extra Strength .
For best results , Regoxidine Extra Strength should be allowed to soak into the scalp before using any styling products .
Try to develop a good routine of applying Regoxidine Extra Strength first , and then applying styling products and style as usual .
Keep in mind that your best results will be seen with proper application .
Can I have my hair colored or permed or use hair relaxers while using Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
Yes .
We have no evidence that coloring or perming your hair or that the use of relaxers change the effect of Regoxidine Extra Strength .
However , because the use of a permanent wave and hair color can cause scalp irritation on certain people , we recommend the following precautions : • To avoid possible scalp irritation , you should make sure all of the Regoxidine Extra Strength has been washed off the hair and scalp before using color or perm chemicals .
• For best results , do not apply Regoxidine Extra Strength on the same day that you use a chemical treatment on your hair .
• Do not use Regoxidine Extra Strength for 24 hours after using any chemicals to make sure your scalp has not been irritated by the perm or color treatment .
If no irritation occurs , continue use of Regoxidine Extra Strength as usual .
• Simply restart your normal Regoxidine Extra Strength routine .
There is no need to use more Regoxidine Extra Strength to make up for missed applications .
Missing one day of Regoxidine Extra Strength will not affect your hair regrowth results .
Can I apply Regoxidine Extra Strength and wash my hair an hour later ?
No .
For Regoxidine Extra Strength to work best , you should allow it to stay on the scalp for about 4 hours before washing .
Directions for Use When applying Regoxidine Extra Strength , make sure the medicine comes in direct contact with the scalp .
Carefully follow the instructions below to use the child - resistant dropper to apply Men ' s Regoxidine Extra Strength : • Remove the bottle of Men ' s Regoxidine Extra Strength from the carton .
• To remove the child resistant cap , push down and turn in direction of the arrows on the cap .
Discard cap after use .
• Remove the dropper from the carton .
• Squeeze the rubber bulb and insert the dropper into the bottle .
• Release the bulb , allowing the dropper to fill to the 1 mL line , squeeze the extra amount back into the bottle .
• Part your hair in the area of hair thinning / loss .
• Next , place the tip of the dropper near the part of the scalp you want to treat and gently squeeze the bulb to gradually release the solution .
To prevent the solution from running off the scalp , apply a small amount at a time .
• apply one mL 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
Do not use more .
Spread the liquid evenly over the hair loss area .
If you use your fingers , wash hands with soap and water immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each bottle should last about one month , if used as directed .
Use a mild shampoo if you wash your scalp before applying Regoxidine Extra Strength .
• After each use attach the dropper to the bottle to make it child - resistant by turning it clockwise until tightly closed .
Warnings For external use only For use by men only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the other side of this leaflet or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Regoxidine Extra Strength is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
What are the most common side effects with Regoxidine Extra Strength ?
The most common side effects are itching and skin irritation of the treated area of the scalp .
If scalp irritation continues , stop use and see a doctor .
Regoxidine Extra Strength contains alcohol , which will cause burning or irritation of the eyes .
If Regoxidine Extra Strength accidentally gets into eyes , rinse with large amounts of cool tap water .
Can Regoxidine Extra Strength produce unwanted hair growth ?
Unwanted hair growth on the face and other parts of the body has been reported in women .
But it is rare and reversible .
If you develop unwanted hair , stop using Regoxidine Extra Strength .
Over time , the unwanted hair , if caused by Regoxidine Extra Strength , will go away .
You can take the following steps to decrease the chances of unwanted hair growth : • limit the application of Regoxidine Extra Strength only to the scalp ; • if you use your hands to apply Regoxidine Extra Strength , wash your hands well immediately afterwards ; and • after your nighttime application of Regoxidine Extra Strength , allow enough drying time before going to bed ( usually 2 to 4 hours ) .
Can I use Regoxidine Extra Strength for baldness or hair loss in babies or children ?
No .
Regoxidine Extra Strength must not be used to treat baldness or hair loss in babies and children .
If you have any other questions , ask your healthcare professional or call toll free + 1 - 800 - 996 - 5122 ( collect ) .
You can also visit our website at www . innovuspharma . com Store at Controlled Room Temperature at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Save this leaflet for future reference .
Innovus Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 373 Inverness Pkwy # 206 Englewood , CO 80112 U . S . A . Label part # REG2000 - INS Label rev . date 02 / 21 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
