45 mM P in 15 mL ( 3 mM P and 4 mEq Na + / mL ) FOR ADDITIVE USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION IN I . V . FLUIDS Plastic Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP , 3 mM P / mL ( millimoles / mL ) , is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution containing a mixture of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate in water for injection .
The solution is administered after dilution by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each mL contains 276 mg of monobasic sodium phosphate , monohydrate and 142 mg of dibasic sodium phosphate , anhydrous ( equivalent to 268 mg of dibasic sodium phosphate , heptahydrate ) .
One mM of phosphorus weighs 31 mg , and the product provides 93 mg ( approximately 3 mM ) of phosphorus / mL plus 92 mg ( 4 mEq ) of sodium / mL .
Note : 1 mM P = 1 mM PO4 .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH is 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 to 6 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 7 mOsmol / mL ( calc ) .
The solution is intended as an alternative to potassium phosphate to provide phosphorus for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
It is provided as a 15 mL partial fill single - dose vial ; when lesser amounts are required , the unused portion should be discarded with the entire unit .
Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , USP ( monohydrate ) is chemically designated NaH2PO4 • H2O , white , odorless crystals or granules freely soluble in water .
Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , USP ( anhydrous ) is chemically designated Na2HPO4 , colorless or white granular salt freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phosphorus in the form of organic and inorganic phosphate has a variety of important biochemical functions in the body and is involved in many significant metabolic and enzyme reactions in almost all organs and tissues .
It exerts a modifying influence on the steady state of calcium levels , a buffering effect on acid - base equilibrium and a primary role in the renal excretion of hydrogen ion .
Phosphorus is present in plasma and other extracellular fluid , in cell membranes and intracellular fluid , as well as in collagen and bone tissues .
Phosphorus in the extracellular fluid is primarily in inorganic form and plasma levels may vary somewhat with age .
The ratio of disodium phosphate and monosodium phosphate in the extracellular fluid is 4 to 1 ( 80 % to 20 % ) at the normal pH of 7 . 4 .
This buffer ratio varies with the pH , but owing to its relatively low concentration , it contributes little to the buffering capacity of the extracellular fluid .
Phosphorus , present in large amounts in erythrocytes and other tissue cells , plays a significant intracellular role in the synthesis of high energy organic phosphates .
It has been shown to be essential to maintain red cell glucose utilization , lactate production , and the concentration of both erythrocyte adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) and 2 , 3 diphosphoglycerate ( DPG ) , and must be deemed as important to other tissue cells .
Hypophosphatemia should be avoided during periods of total parenteral nutrition , or other lengthy periods of intravenous infusions .
It has been suggested that patients receiving total parenteral nutrition receive 12 to 15 mM phosphorus per 250 g of dextrose .
Serum phosphorus levels should be regularly monitored and appropriate amounts of phosphorus should be added to the infusions to maintain normal serum phosphorus levels .
Intravenous infusion of inorganic phosphorus may be accompanied by a decrease in the serum level and urinary excretion of calcium .
The normal level of serum phosphorus is 3 . 0 to 4 . 5 mg / 100 mL in adults ; 4 . 0 to 7 . 0 mg / 100 mL in children .
Intravenously infused phosphorus not taken up by the tissues is excreted almost entirely in the urine .
Plasma phosphorus is believed to be filterable by the renal glomeruli , and the major portion of filtered phosphorus ( greater than 80 % ) is actively reabsorbed by the tubules .
Many modifying influences tend to alter the amount excreted in the urine .
Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of the total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 142 mEq / liter .
While the sodium ion can diffuse across cell membranes , intracellular sodium is maintained at a much lower concentration than extracellular sodium through the expenditure of energy by the cell ( so called " sodium cation pump " ) .
Loss of intracellular potassium ion is usually accompanied by an increase in intracellular sodium ion .
When serum sodium concentration is low , the secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) by the pituitary is inhibited , thereby preventing water reabsorption by the distal renal tubules .
On the other hand , adrenal secretion of aldosterone increases renal tubular reabsorption of sodium in an effort to re - establish normal serum sodium concentration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP , 3 mM P / mL is indicated as a source of phosphorus , for addition to large volume intravenous fluids , to prevent or correct hypophosphatemia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific parenteral fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
The concomitant amount of sodium ( Na + 4 mEq / mL ) must be calculated into total electrolyte dose of such prepared solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium phosphate is contraindicated in diseases where high phosphorus or low calcium levels may be encountered , and in patients with hypernatremia .
WARNINGS Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP , 3 mM P / mL must be diluted and thoroughly mixed before use .
To avoid phosphorus intoxication , infuse solutions containing sodium phosphate slowly .
Infusing high concentrations of phosphorus may result in a reduction of serum calcium and symptoms of hypocalcemic tetany .
Calcium levels should be monitored .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Phosphorus replacement therapy with sodium phosphate should be guided primarily by the serum phosphorus level and the limits imposed by the accompanying sodium ( Na + ) ion .
Use with caution in patients with renal impairment , cirrhosis , cardiac failure and other edematous or sodium - retaining states .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium phosphate .
It is also not known whether sodium phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium phosphate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of sodium phosphate has been established in pediatric patients ( neonates , infants , children and adolescents ) .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sodium ions and phosphorus are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of phosphorus intoxication .
Phosphorus intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany .
See WARNINGS .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusions containing sodium phosphate immediately and institute corrective therapy to restore depressed serum calcium and to reduce elevated serum sodium levels .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP , 3 mM P / mL is administered intravenously only after dilution and thorough mixing in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
Serum sodium , phosphorus and calcium levels should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , all or part of the contents of one or more vials may be added to other intravenous fluids to provide any desired number of millimoles ( mM ) of phosphorus .
In patients on total parenteral nutrition , approximately 12 to 15 mM of phosphorus ( equivalent to 372 to 465 mg elemental phosphorus ) per liter bottle of TPN solution containing 250 g dextrose is usually adequate to maintain normal serum phosphorus , though larger amounts may be required in hypermetabolic states .
The amount of sodium and phosphorus which accompanies the addition of sodium phosphate also should be kept in mind , and if necessary , serum sodium levels should be monitored .
The suggested dose of phosphorus for infants receiving TPN is 1 . 5 to 2 mM P / kg / day .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP , 3 mM P / mL is supplied as per below .
Unit of Sale Concentration Unit of Use NDC 0409 - 7391 - 72 Tray containing 25 vials 45 mM ( 3 mM P / mL ) containing 60 mEq Na + ( 4 . 0 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 7391 - 82 15 mL Single - dose Plastic Vial Each container is partially filled to provide air space needed for complete vacuum withdrawal of the contents into the I . V . container .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1044 - 3 . 0 01 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mL Vial Label 15 mL Single - dose Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP 45 mM P / 15 mL ( 3 mM P / mL ) 60 mEq Na + / 15 mL ( 4 mEq / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Hospira Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mL Vial Tray 15 mL Single - dose Rx only 25 Units / NDC 0409 - 7391 - 72 Sodium Phosphates Injection , USP 45 mM P / 15 mL ( 3 mM P / mL ) 60 mEq Na + / 15 mL ( 4 mEq / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
