Active ingredient Hydrogen peroxide ( stabilized ) 3 % Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Oral debriding agent Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than one week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For First aid antiseptic : • clean the affected area • spray a small amount of product on the affected area 1 to 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first Oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults , children over 2 years of age : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute , then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use • children 2 years of age : consult a dentist , doctor Other information keep tightly closed and at controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive ingredients purified water Distributed by : Vi - Jon , LLC . , 8515 Page Ave . St . Louis , MO 63114 Principal Display Panel NDC 0869 - 0871 - 45 Swan Hydrogen Peroxide Topical Solution USP • First Aid Antiseptic / Oral Debriding Agent • For treatment of minor cuts & abrasions • For use as a gargle or rinse Square bottle uses less plastic than a similarly sized round bottle .
Recyclable ( if available in your area ) DO NOT USE IF HEAT INDUCTION SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING 32 FL OZ ( 1 QT ) 946 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing mountain falls for treatment of minor cuts and abrasions 3 % U . S . P . hydrogen peroxide topical solution USP first aid antiseptic oral debriding agent Made in the USA with US and foreign parts 32 FL OZ ( 1 QT ) 946 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
