Rx only DESCRIPTION : Tropicamide Ophthalmic Solution , USP is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution in two strengths .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H20N2O2 MW = 284 . 36 Established name : Tropicamide Chemical name : Benzeneacetamide , N - ethyl - α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - N - ( 4 - pyridinylmethyl ) - .
Each mL contains : Active : Tropicamide 1 % ( 10 mg ) .
Inactives : Edetate Disodium , Sodium Chloride , Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , Water for Injection .
pH range 4 . 0 to 5 . 8 .
Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle to cholinergic stimulation , dilating the pupil ( mydriasis ) .
The stronger preparation ( 1 % ) also paralyzes accommodation .
This preparation acts in 15 - 30 minutes and the duration of activity is approximately 3 - 8 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require 24 hours .
The weaker strength may be useful in producing mydriasis with only slight cycloplegia .
Heavily pigmented irides may require more doses than lightly pigmented irides .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For mydriasis and cycloplegia for diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Contraindicated in persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS : For topical use only — not for injection .
This preparation may cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
The possibility of psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances due to hypersensitivity to anticholinergic drugs should be considered .
Mydriatics may produce a transient elevation of intraocular pressure .
Remove contact lenses before using .
PRECAUTIONS : General : The lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation to avoid excessive systemic absorption .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Patient should be advised not to drive or engage in potentially hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patient may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ' s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ' s hands following administration .
Drug Interactions : Tropicamide may interfere with the antihypertensive action of carbachol , pilocarpine , or ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There have been no long - term studies done using tropicamide in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with tropicamide .
It is also not known whether tropicamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Tropicamide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted inhuman milk , caution should be exercised when tropicamide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Tropicamide may rarely cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs ( See WARNINGS ) .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Ocular : Transient stinging , blurred vision , photophobia and superficial punctate keratitis have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Increased intraocular pressure has been reported following the use of mydriatics .
Non - Ocular : Dryness of the mouth , tachycardia , headache , allergic reactions , nausea , vomiting , pallor , central nervous system disturbances and muscle rigidity have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For refraction , instill one or two drops of 1 % solution in the eye ( s ) , repeated in five minutes .
If patient is not seen within 20 to 30 minutes , an additional drop may be instilled to prolong mydriatic effect .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require higher strength or more doses .
Mydriasis will reverse spontaneously with time , typically in 4 to 8 hours .
However , in some cases , complete recovery may take up to 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED : Tropicamide Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % are supplied as sterile solutions in plastic dropper bottles .
• 1 % NDC 0404 - 7192 - 01 ( 15 mL ) STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperatures .
Keep container tightly closed .
Distributed by ( in US only ) : HENRY SCHEIN INC . 135 DURYEA ROAD MELVILLE , NY 11747 USA BTC00N Rev . 12 / 14 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : HENRY SCHEIN Logo NDC 0404 - 7192 - 01 112 - 7192 TROPICAMIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION , USP 1 % Sterile Rx only 15 mL FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : HENRY SCHEIN Logo NDC 0404 - 7192 - 01 112 - 7192 TROPICAMIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION , USP 1 % FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Sterile Rx only 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
