Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Cetearyl glucoside , Dimethicone , Tribehenin , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Cetearyl alcohol , Tocopheryl acetate , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Citric acid , Simethicone USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK No7 Beautiful Skin .
Created to provide tailored skin nutrition for healthy looking , bright and beautiful skin .
Protect your skin from the damaging effects of the sun everyday with this lightweight and oil free formulated sunscreen skin protector that melts into your skin without blocking pores .
Created with anti - oxidant Vitamin E to help protect against damaging free radicals and mattifying ingredients to help keep skin shine free .
It ' s non - greasy texture wo n't block pores so your skin will stay feeling fresh all day long .
Hypo - allergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our products are hypo - allergenic , using ingredients we know and trust .
For Best Results : Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every morning or apply over your moisturizer for extra SPF protection .
Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 3 . 5 % , Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a .
m . - 2 p .
m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun TUBE TEXT No7 Beautiful Skin .
Created to provide tailored skin protection for healthy looking , bright and beautiful skin .
Protect your skin from the damaging effects of the sun everyday with this lightweight and oil free formulated sunscreen skin protector , that melts into your skin without blocking pores .
Created with anti - oxidant Vitamin E to help protect against damaging free radicals and mattifying ingredients to help keep skin shine free .
It ' s non - greasy texture wo n't block pores so your skin will stay feeling fresh all day long .
For Best Results : Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every morning or apply over your moisturizer for extra SPF protection .
TUBE TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
TUBE TEXT Active ingredients : Octocrylene 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 3 . 5 % , Avobenzone 3 % .
TUBE TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . boots . com / no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Beautiful Skin Oil Free Skin Protector All Skin Types Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 25 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Beautiful Skin Oil Free Skin Protector All Skin Types Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 25 Hypo - allergenic 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
