Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Isostearyl isostearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glyeryl stearate , Tribehenin , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Myristyl myristate , Rosa moschata seed oil , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Retinyl palmitate , Diospyros kaki calyx extract , Cholesterol , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Propylene glycol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Ceramide3 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Ceramide 6 ll , Phytosphingosine , Tocpherol , Triethyl citrate , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ascorbyl palmitate , Ceramide 1 , CI77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI14700 ( Red 4 ) Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Description Restore and Renew Skincare System A daily skincare regimen to nourish and revitalise mature skin , revealing younger looking , firmer feeling and more even toned skin in just 4 weeks .
Key Ingredients Matrixyl 3000 and Retinyl Palmitate ( pro - retinol ) to help reduce the appearance of wrinkles and provide firmer feeling skin .
Sophora and kiwi extracts to help provide a more even skin tone .
Enhanced by a Poly - hydroxyacid in the night serum .
Hyaluronic acid to help moisturise and maintain skin ' s elasticity .
Ceramide complex , a skin - identical lipid , to help restore the protective barrier function of the skin .
Persimmon Tree extract to help boost skin vitality , for younger looking skin .
Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 ( Day Cream ) helps to provide protection against the ageing effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures .
For best results : In the morning , smooth Restore and Renew Day Serum onto face and neck with your fingertips , followed by No7 Restore and Renew Day Cream .
At night , follow your No7 Restore and Renew Night Serum application with No7 Restore and Renew Night Cream , to help boost the skin ' s moisture barrier to rejuvenate the look of your skin overnght .
To complete your beauty regimen use No7 Restore and Renew Eye Cream , specially developed for the delicate skin around the eyes to provide day long hydration , revealing smoother skin with a renewed healthy glow .
Day Cream and Night Cream Made in the UK Day Serum and Night Serum Made in Germany The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc . New York NY 10005 www . shopbootsusa . com Description No7 Restore and Renew Skincare System A Daily skincare system with clinically proven serum to provide anti - ageing benefits for mature skin .
Hypoallergenic No7 Restore and Renew Skincare System contains : No7 Restore and Renew Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz No7 Restore and Renew Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz No7 Restore and Renew Day Serum 15 ml e 0 . 5 US Fl . Oz No7 Restore and Renew Night Serum 15 ml e 0 . 5 Us Fl .
Oz Description Clinically proven serum Visible results No7 Restore and Renew Day and Night Serum Clinically proven anti - ageing benefits for mature skin .
Actively targets the 5 key signd of ageing in mature skin to reveal revitalised younger looking skin in just 4 weeks .
Persimmon Tree extract to help boost skin vitality , for younger looking skin After 4 weeks , skins natural hydration level and youthful radiance are improved , deep lines and wrinkles are less visible , skin feels firmer and looks more evenly toned .
No7 Restore and Renew Skincare System Experience a range formulated to work even better together to reveal revitalised younger looking skin .
No7 Restore and Renew Skincare System A Daily skincare regimen to nourish and revitalise mature skin , revealing younger looking , firmer feeling and more toned skin in just 4 weeks .
No7 Restore and Renew Day and Night Serum Clinically proven day and night serum helps skin appear strengthened to reveal youthful radiance .
This powerful duo works together to effectively target 5 key signs of ageing in mature skin : 1 .
Lines and wrinkles , 2 .
lack of firmness , 3 .
uneven skin tone , 4 .
fragility , 5 .
dullness .
For best results : Smooth the day serum onto your face and neck every morning .
Smooth the night serum onto your face and neck every morning .
Follow with your Restore and Renew Day or Night Cream .
No7 Restore and Renew Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 Nourish and revitalise your skin with this protecting and replenishing daytime formula .
Created to provide day long hydration , replenish lost lipids and help boost your skin ' s repair and recovery process .
Formulated with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 to help provide protection from the ageing effects of the sun .
The result is smoother , plumper looking skin that feels firmer and has a renewed healthy glow .
For best results : Use in the morning after cleansing and applying Restore and Renew Day Serum .
Simply smooth onto yourface and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eye area .
No7 Restore and Renew Night Cream Nourish and revitalise your skin with this replenishing night time formula .
Created to replenish lost lipids and help boost the skin ' s moisture barrier to rejuvenate the look of our skin overnight .
Helps boost your skin ' s resilience to environmental stress and the result is smoother , plumper looking skin that feels firmer .
For best results : Use just before bedtime , after cleansing the skin and applying Restore and Renew Night Serum .
Smooth onto your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eye area .
carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
