Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each caplet ) Loperamide HCl 2 mg Purpose Anti - diarrheal Use controls symptoms of diarrhea , including Traveler ' s Diarrhea Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl .
Heart alert : Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death .
Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool • a history of liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking antibiotics When using this product tiredness , drowsiness , or dizziness may occur .
Be careful when driving or operating machinery .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms get worse • diarrhea lasts more than 2 days • you get abdominal swelling or bulging .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • drink plenty of clear liquids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • find the right dose on the chart .
If possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise , use age .
adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool ; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool ; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9 - 11 years ( 60 - 95 lbs ) 1 caplet after the first loose stool ; 1 / 2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool ; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6 - 8 years ( 48 - 59 lbs ) 1 caplet after the first loose stool ; 1 / 2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool ; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children under 6 years ( up to 47 lbs ) ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Corn starch , D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , dicalcium phosphate dihydrate , FD & C blue # 1 brilliant blue lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , silica gel Questions ?
call toll free 1 - 800 - 687 - 0176 Mon - Fri 8 am to 4 pm Compare to the active ingredient in Imodium ® A - D † ORIGINAL PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH CONTROLS SYMPTOMS OF DIARRHEA DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS MISSING OR DAMAGED † This product is not manufactured or distributed by the owner of the registered trademark of Imodium ® A - D .
L . Rev .
08 / 18 Distributed by : SDA Laboratories , Inc .
Greenwich , CT 06830 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
