Rx Only DESCRIPTION UroAv - 81 Tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet contains : Methenamine 81 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 32 . 4 mg Methylene Blue 10 . 8 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg Inactive ingredients : Lactose , Polyethylene Glycol , Crospovidone , Magnesium Stearate , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , FD & C Blue # 1 .
METHENAMINE .
[ 100 - 97 - 0 ] 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - Tetraazatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . - 1 3 , 7 ] decane ; hexamethylenetetramine ; HMT ; HMTA ; hexamine ; 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraazaadamantane hexamethylenemine ; Uritone ; Urotropin .
C 6 H 12 N 4 ; mol wt 140 . 19 ; C 51 . 40 % , H 8 . 63 % , N 39 . 96 % .
Methenamine ( hexamethylenetetramine ) exists as colorless , lustrous crystals or white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohol and in chloroform .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC .
[ 7558 - 80 - 7 ] Phosphoric acid sodium salt ( 1 : 1 ) ; Sodium biphosphate ; sodium dihydrogen phosphate ; acid sodium phosphate ; monosodium orthophosphate ; primary sodium phosphate ; H 2 NaO 4 P ; mol wt 119 . 98 , H 1 . 68 % , Na 19 . 16 % , O 53 . 34 % , P 25 . 82 % .
Monohydrate , white , odorless slightly deliquesce crystals or granules .
At 100 ° C loses all its water ; when ignited it converts to metaphosphate .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
The aqueous solution is acid .
pH of 0 . 1 molar aqueous solution at 25 ° C : 4 . 5 .
PHENYL SALICYLATE .
[ 118 - 55 - 8 ] 2 - Hydroxybenzoic acid phenyl ester ; Salol .
C 13 H 10 O 3 ; mol wt 214 . 22 , C 72 . 89 % , H 4 . 71 % , O 22 . 41 % .
Made by the action of phosphorus oxy - chloride on a mixture of phenol and salicylic acid .
Phenyl Salicylate exists as white crystals with a melting point of 41 ° - 43 ° C .
It is very slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol .
METHYLENE BLUE .
[ 61 - 73 - 4 ] 3 , 7 - Bis ( dimethylamino ) phenothiazin - 5 - ium chloride ; C . I . Basic Blue 9 ; methylthioninium chloride ; tetramethylthionine chloride ; 3 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) phenazathionium chloride .
C 16 H 18 ClN 3 S ; mol wt 319 . 85 , C 60 . 08 % , H 5 . 67 % , Cl 11 . 08 % , N 13 . 14 % , S 10 . 03 % .
Methylene Blue ( Methylthionine chloride ) exists as dark green crystals .
It is soluble in water and in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in alcohol .
HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE .
[ 620 - 61 - 1 ] [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - α - ( Hydroxymethyl ) - benzeneacetic acid 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 1αH , 5αH - tropan - 3α - ol ( - ) - tropate ( ester ) sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 3α - tropanyl S - ( - ) - tropate ; I - tropic acid ester with tropine ; I - tropine tropate .
C 34 H 48 N 2 O 10 S .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate is an alkaloid of belladonna .
Exists as a white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Affected by light , it is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in alcohol ; sparingly soluble in ether .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY METHENAMINE degrades in an acidic urine environment releasing formaldehyde which provides bactericidal or bacteriostatic action .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
70 to 90 % reaches the urine unchanged at which point it is hydrolyzed if the urine is acidic .
Within 24 hours it is almost completely ( 90 % ) excreted ; of this amount at pH 5 , approximately 20 % is formaldehyde .
Protein binding - some formaldehyde is bound to substances in the urine and surrounding tissues .
Methenamine is freely distributed to body tissue and fluids but is not clinically significant as it does not hydrolyze at a pH greater than 6 . 8 .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC an acidifier , helps to maintain an acid pH in the urine necessary for the degradation of methenamine .
PHENYL SALICYLATE releases salicylate , a mild analgesic for pain .
METHYLENE BLUE possesses weak antiseptic properties .
It is well absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly reduced to leukomethylene blue which is stabilized in some combination form in the urine .
75 % is excreted unchanged .
HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE is a parasympatholytic drug which relaxes smooth muscles and thus produces an antispasmodic effect .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly distributed throughout the body tissues .
Most is excreted in the urine within 12 hours , 13 % to 50 % being unchanged .
Protein binding for hyoscyamine sulfate is moderate and biotransformation is hepatic .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE UroAv - 81 Tablets is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding .
Indicated for the relief of local symptoms , such as inflammation , hypermotility , and pain , which accompany lower urinary tract infections .
Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS UroAv - 81 Tablets is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Risk - benefit should be considered when the following medical problems exist : Cardiac disease ( especially cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , coronary heart disease , and mitral stenosis ) ; gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease ; glaucoma ; myasthenia gravis ; acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy ( such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) .
WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage .
If rapid pulse , dizziness , or blurring of vision occurs , discontinue use immediately .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
PRECAUTIONS Cross sensitivity and / or related problems : Patients intolerant of other belladonna alkaloids or other salicylates may be intolerant of this medication also .
Delay in gastric emptying could complicate the management of gastric ulcers .
Pregnancy / Reproduction ( FDA Pregnancy Category C ) : Hyoscyamine and methenamine cross the placenta .
Studies have not been done in either animals or humans .
It is not known whether UroAv - 81 Tablets tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
UroAv - 81 Tablets tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : Methenamine and traces of hyoscyamine are excreted in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when UroAv - 81 Tablets are administered to a nursing mother .
Prolonged use : There have been no studies to establish the safety of prolonged use in humans .
No known long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pediatric : Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effect of the belladonna alkaloids .
Geriatric : Use with caution in elderly patients as they may respond to the usual doses of the belladonna alkaloids with excitement , agitation , drowsiness , or confusion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse , flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision , dizziness , drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition , acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth , nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare .
Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , including itching , rash , severe dizziness , swelling or trouble breathing .
This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue - green .
This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped .
Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS As a result of hyoscyamine ' s effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying , absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication .
Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics : May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde .
Antimuscarinics : Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications .
Antacids / antidiarrheals : Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness .
Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde .
Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine .
Antimyasthenics : Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility , therefore , caution is recommended .
Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH . Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole .
Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors : Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects .
Opioid ( narcotic ) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation .
Sulfonamides : These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria .
Patients should be advised that the urine and / or stools may become blue to blue - green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue .
Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of UroAv - 81 Tablets has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients , abuse of UroAv - 81 Tablets is not expected .
OVERDOSAGE Emesis or gastric lavage .
Slow intravenous administration of physostigmine in doses of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in children ) repeated as needed in one to two hours to reverse severe antimuscarinic symptoms .
Administration of small doses of diazepam to control excitement and seizures .
Artificial respiration with oxygen if needed for respiratory depression .
Adequate hydration .
Symptomatic treatment as necessary .
If overdose is suspected , contact the poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or your local emergency room immediately .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Pediatric : Dosage must be individualized by physician for older children .
Not recommended for use in children six years of age or younger .
HOW SUPPLIED UroAv - 81 Tablets are blue speckled tablets imprinted with 210 on one side and plain on the other , available in bottles of 90 tablets , ( NDC : 42291 - 851 - 90 ) .
STORAGE Store in a cool , dry place at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from moisture and direct sunlight .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child resistant closure .
WARNING : Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
Rx Only Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 10 / 14 AV 01 / 16 ( P ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 3 4229185190 0 AvKARE NDC 42291 - 851 - 90 UroAv - 81 Urinary Antiseptic Each tablet contains : Methenamine ................................
81 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic ..
40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate ....................... 32 . 4 mg Methylene Blue ......................... 10 . 8 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate ................
0 . 12 mg 90 Tablets Rx Only Dosage and Administration : Adults : One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Pediatric : Dosage must be individualized by physician for older children .
Not recommended for use in children six years of age or younger .
Note : Patient should be advised that urine may be colored blue to blue - green while taking this medication .
SEE PRODUCT LITERATURE FOR FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION .
Tamper evident seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is missing or broken .
Storage : Store in a cool , dry place at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from moisture and direct sunlight .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 .
WARNING : KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 10 / 2014 AV 01 / 16 ( P ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
