AztreonamFOR INJECTION , USP Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of aztreonam for injection and other antibacterial drugs , aztreonam for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Aztreonam for Injection , USP contains the active ingredient aztreonam , a monobactam .
It was originally isolated from Chromobacterium violaceum .
It is a synthetic bactericidal antibiotic .
The monobactams , having a unique monocyclic beta - lactam nucleus , are structurally different from other beta - lactam antibiotics ( e . g . , penicillins , cephalosporins , cephamycins ) .
The sulfonic acid substituent in the 1 - position of the ring activates the beta - lactam moiety ; an aminothiazolyl oxime side chain in the 3 - position and a methyl group in the 4 - position confer the specific antibacterial spectrum and beta - lactamase stability .
Aztreonam is designated chemically as ( Z ) - 2 - [ [ [ ( 2 - amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) [ [ ( 2 S , 3 S ) - 2 - methyl - 4 - oxo - 1 - sulfo - 3 - azetidinyl ] carbamoyl ] methylene ] amino ] oxy ] - 2 - methylpropionic acid .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C13H17N5O8S2 M . W . 435 . 44 Aztreonam for injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , sodium - free lyophilized , off - white to slightly yellow solid containing approximately 780 mg arginine per gram of aztreonam .
Following constitution , the product is for intramuscular or intravenous use .
Aqueous solutions of the product have a pH in the range of 4 . 5 to 7 . 5 .
Each 1 gram vial contains 1 gram aztreonam with approximately 780 mg arginine .
Each 2 gram vial contains 2 grams aztreonam with approximately 1 . 56 grams arginine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Single 30 - minute intravenous infusions of 500 mg , 1 g , and 2 g doses of aztreonam for injection in healthy subjects produced aztreonam peak serum levels of 54 mcg / mL , 90 mcg / mL , and 204 mcg / mL , respectively , immediately after administration ; at 8 hours , serum levels were 1 mcg / mL , 3 mcg / mL , and 6 mcg / mL , respectively ( Figure 1 ) .
Single 3 - minute intravenous injections of the same doses resulted in serum levels of 58 mcg / mL , 125 mcg / mL , and 242 mcg / mL at 5 minutes following completion of injection .
Serum concentrations of aztreonam in healthy subjects following completion of single intramuscular injections of 500 mg and 1 g doses are depicted in Figure 1 ; maximum serum concentrations occur at about 1 hour .
After identical single intravenous or intramuscular doses of aztreonam for injection , the serum concentrations of aztreonam are comparable at 1 hour ( 1 . 5 hours from start of intravenous infusion ) with similar slopes of serum concentrations thereafter .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The serum levels of aztreonam following single 500 mg or 1 g ( intramuscular or intravenous ) or 2 g ( intravenous ) doses of aztreonam for injection exceed the MIC90 for Neisseria sp . , Haemophilus influenzae , and most genera of the Enterobacteriaceae for 8 hours ( for Enterobacter sp . , the 8 - hour serum levels exceed the MIC for 80 % of strains ) .
For Pseudomonas aeruginosa , a single 2 g intravenous dose produces serum levels that exceed the MIC90 for approximately 4 to 6 hours .
All of the above doses of aztreonam for injection result in average urine levels of aztreonam that exceed the MIC90 for the same pathogens for up to 12 hours .
When aztreonam pharmacokinetics were assessed for adult and pediatric patients , they were found to be comparable ( down to 9 months old ) .
The serum half - life of aztreonam averaged 1 . 7 hours ( 1 . 5 - 2 . 0 ) in subjects with normal renal function , independent of the dose and route of administration .
In healthy subjects , based on a 70 kg person , the serum clearance was 91 mL / min and renal clearance was 56 mL / min ; the apparent mean volume of distribution at steady - state averaged 12 . 6 liters , approximately equivalent to extracellular fluid volume .
In elderly patients , the mean serum half - life of aztreonam increased and the renal clearance decreased , consistent with the age - related decrease in creatinine clearance .
The dosage of aztreonam for injection should be adjusted accordingly ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Renal Impairment in Adult Patients ) .
In patients with impaired renal function , the serum half - life of aztreonam is prolonged .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Renal Impairment in Adult Patients . )
The serum half - life of aztreonam is only slightly prolonged in patients with hepatic impairment since the liver is a minor pathway of excretion .
Average urine concentrations of aztreonam were approximately 1 , 100 mcg / mL , 3 , 500 mcg / mL , and 6 , 600 mcg / mL within the first 2 hours following single 500 mg , 1 g , and 2 g intravenous doses of aztreonam for injection ( 30 - minute infusions ) , respectively .
The range of average concentrations for aztreonam in the 8 - to 12 - hour urine specimens in these studies was 25 to 120 mcg / mL .
After intramuscular injection of single 500 mg and 1 g doses of aztreonam for injection , urinary levels were approximately 500 mcg / mL and 1 , 200 mcg / mL , respectively , within the first 2 hours , declining to 180 mcg / mL and 470 mcg / mL in the 6 - to 8 - hour specimens .
In healthy subjects , aztreonam is excreted in the urine about equally by active tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
Approximately 60 % to 70 % of an intravenous or intramuscular dose was recovered in the urine by 8 hours .
Urinary excretion of a single parenteral dose was essentially complete by 12 hours after injection .
About 12 % of a single intravenous radiolabeled dose was recovered in the feces .
Unchanged aztreonam and the inactive beta - lactam ring hydrolysis product of aztreonam were present in feces and urine .
Intravenous or intramuscular administration of a single 500 mg or 1 g dose of aztreonam for injection every 8 hours for 7 days to healthy subjects produced no apparent accumulation of aztreonam or modification of its disposition characteristics ; serum protein binding averaged 56 % and was independent of dose .
An average of about 6 % of a 1 g intramuscular dose was excreted as a microbiologically inactive open beta - lactam ring hydrolysis product ( serum half - life approximately 26 hours ) of aztreonam in the 0 - to 8 - hour urine collection on the last day of multiple dosing .
Renal function was monitored in healthy subjects given aztreonam ; standard tests ( serum creatinine , creatinine clearance , BUN , urinalysis , and total urinary protein excretion ) as well as special tests ( excretion of N - acetyl - ß - glucosaminidase , alanine aminopeptidase , and ß2 - microglobulin ) were used .
No abnormal results were obtained .
Aztreonam achieves measurable concentrations in the following body fluids and tissues : Table 1 : Extravascular Concentrations of Aztreonam After a Single Parenteral Dosea a Tissue penetration is regarded as essential to therapeutic efficacy , but specific tissue levels have not been correlated with specific therapeutic effects .
Fluid or Tissue Dose ( g ) Route Hours Post - injection Number of Patients Mean Concentration ( mcg / mL or mcg / g ) Fluids bile 1 IV 2 10 39 blister fluid 1 IV 1 6 20 bronchial secretion 2 IV 4 7 5 cerebrospinal fluid ( inflamed meninges ) 2 IV 0 . 9 - 4 . 3 16 3 pericardial fluid 2 IV 1 6 33 pleural fluid 2 IV 1 . 1 - 3 . 0 3 51 synovial fluid 2 IV 0 . 8 - 1 . 9 11 83 Tissues atrial appendage 2 IV 0 . 9 - 1 . 6 12 22 endometrium 2 IV 0 . 7 - 1 . 9 4 9 fallopian tube 2 IV 0 . 7 - 1 . 9 8 12 fat 2 IV 1 . 3 - 2 . 0 10 5 femur 2 IV 1 . 0 - 2 . 1 15 16 gallbladder 2 IV 0 . 8 - 1 . 3 4 23 kidney 2 IV 2 . 4 - 5 . 6 5 67 large intestine 2 IV 0 . 8 - 1 . 9 9 12 liver 2 IV 0 . 9 - 2 . 0 6 47 lung 2 IV 1 . 2 - 2 . 1 6 22 myometrium 2 IV 0 . 7 - 1 . 9 9 11 ovary 2 IV 0 . 7 - 1 . 9 7 13 prostate 1 IM 0 . 8 - 3 . 0 8 8 skeletal muscle 2 IV 0 . 3 - 0 . 7 6 16 skin 2 IV 0 . 0 - 1 . 0 8 25 sternum 2 IV 1 6 6 The concentration of aztreonam in saliva at 30 minutes after a single 1 g intravenous dose ( 9 patients ) was 0 . 2 mcg / mL ; in human milk at 2 hours after a single 1 g intravenous dose ( 6 patients ) , 0 . 2 mcg / mL , and at 6 hours after a single 1 g intramuscular dose ( 6 patients ) , 0 . 3 mcg / mL ; in amniotic fluid at 6 to 8 hours after a single 1 g intravenous dose ( 5 patients ) , 2 mcg / mL .
The concentration of aztreonam in peritoneal fluid obtained 1 to 6 hours after multiple 2 g intravenous doses ranged between 12 mcg / mL and 90 mcg / mL in 7 of 8 patients studied .
Aztreonam given intravenously rapidly reaches therapeutic concentrations in peritoneal dialysis fluid ; conversely , aztreonam given intraperitoneally in dialysis fluid rapidly produces therapeutic serum levels .
Concomitant administration of probenecid or furosemide and aztreonam causes clinically insignificant increases in the serum levels of aztreonam .
Single - dose intravenous pharmacokinetic studies have not shown any significant interaction between aztreonam and concomitantly administered gentamicin , nafcillin sodium , cephradine , clindamycin , or metronidazole .
No reports of disulfiram - like reactions with alcohol ingestion have been noted ; this is not unexpected since aztreonam does not contain a methyl - tetrazole side chain .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Microbiology Mechanism of Action Aztreonam is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Aztreonam has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to aztreonam is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials Aztreonam and aminoglycosides have been shown to be synergistic in vitro against most strains of P . aeruginosa , many strains of Enterobacteriaceae , and other Gram - negative aerobic bacilli .
Aztreonam has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic Gram - negative microorganisms : Citrobacter species Enterobacter species Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant and other penicillinase - producing strains ) Klebsiella oxytoca Klebsiella pneumoniae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia species The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 % of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for aztreonam .
However , the efficacy of aztreonam in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic Gram - negative microorganisms : Aeromonas hydrophila Morganella morganii Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) Pasteurella multocida Proteus vulgaris Providencia stuartii Providencia rettgeri Yersinia enterocolitica Aztreonam and aminoglycosides have been shown to be synergistic in vitro against most strains of P . aeruginosa , many strains of Enterobacteriaceae , and other Gram - negative aerobic bacilli .
Alterations of the anaerobic intestinal flora by broad - spectrum antibiotics may decrease colonization resistance , thus permitting overgrowth of potential pathogens , e . g . , Candida and Clostridium species .
Aztreonam has little effect on the anaerobic intestinal microflora in in vitro studies .
Clostridium difficile and its cytotoxin were not found in animal models following administration of aztreonam .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Gastrointestinal . )
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of aztreonam for injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , aztreonam for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Aztreonam for Injection is indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram - negative microorganisms : Urinary Tract Infections ( complicated and uncomplicated ) , including pyelonephritis and cystitis ( initial and recurrent ) caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Enterobacter cloacae , Klebsiella oxytoca * , Citrobacter species * , and Serratia marcescens * .
Lower Respiratory Tract Infections , including pneumonia and bronchitis caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Haemophilus influenzae , Proteus mirabilis , Enterobacter species , and Serratia marcescens * .
Septicemia caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Proteus mirabilis * , Serratia marcescens * , and Enterobacter species .
Skin and Skin - Structure Infections , including those associated with postoperative wounds , ulcers , and burns , caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Serratia marcescens , Enterobacter species , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Klebsiella pneumoniae , and Citrobacter species * .
* Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
Intra - abdominal Infections , including peritonitis caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species including K . pneumoniae , Enterobacter species including E . cloacae * , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Citrobacter species * including C . freundii * , and Serratia species * including S . marcescens * .
Gynecologic Infections , including endometritis and pelvic cellulitis caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae * , Enterobacter species * including E . cloacae * , and Proteus mirabilis * .
Aztreonam for injection is indicated for adjunctive therapy to surgery in the management of infections caused by susceptible organisms , including abscesses , infections complicating hollow viscus perforations , cutaneous infections , and infections of serous surfaces .
Aztreonam for injection is effective against most of the commonly encountered Gram - negative aerobic pathogens seen in general surgery .
Concurrent Therapy Concurrent initial therapy with other antimicrobial agents and aztreonam for injection is recommended before the causative organism ( s ) is known in seriously ill patients who are also at risk of having an infection due to Gram - positive aerobic pathogens .
If anaerobic organisms are also suspected as etiologic agents , therapy should be initiated using an anti - anaerobic agent concurrently with aztreonam for injection ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Certain antibiotics ( e . g . , cefoxitin , imipenem ) may induce high levels of beta - lactamase in vitro in some Gram - negative aerobes such as Enterobacter and Pseudomonas species , resulting in antagonism to many beta - lactam antibiotics including aztreonam .
These in vitro findings suggest that such beta - lactamase - inducing antibiotics not be used concurrently with aztreonam .
Following identification and susceptibility testing of the causative organism ( s ) , appropriate antibiotic therapy should be continued .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This preparation is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to aztreonam or any other component in the formulation .
WARNINGS Both animal and human data suggest that aztreonam for injection , USP is rarely cross - reactive with other beta - lactam antibiotics and weakly immunogenic .
Treatment with aztreonam can result in hypersensitivity reactions in patients with or without prior exposure .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has any history of hypersensitivity reactions to any allergens .
While cross - reactivity of aztreonam with other beta - lactam antibiotics is rare , this drug should be administered with caution to any patient with a history of hypersensitivity to beta - lactams ( e . g . , penicillins , cephalosporins , and / or carbapenems ) .
Treatment with aztreonam can result in hypersensitivity reactions in patients with or without prior exposure to aztreonam .
If an allergic reaction to aztreonam occurs , discontinue the drug and institute supportive treatment as appropriate ( e . g . , maintenance of ventilation , pressor amines , antihistamines , corticosteroids ) .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions may require epinephrine and other emergency measures .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including aztreonam for injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Rare cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported in association with aztreonam in patients undergoing bone marrow transplant with multiple risk factors including sepsis , radiation therapy , and other concomitantly administered drugs associated with toxic epidermal necrolysis .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing aztreonam for injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
In patients with impaired hepatic or renal function , appropriate monitoring is recommended during therapy .
If an aminoglycoside is used concurrently with aztreonam , especially if high dosages of the former are used or if therapy is prolonged , renal function should be monitored because of the potential nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity of aminoglycoside antibiotics .
The use of antibiotics may promote the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including Gram - positive organisms ( Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus faecalis ) and fungi .
Should superinfection occur during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including aztreonam for injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When aztreonam for injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by aztreonam for injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with aztreonam have not been conducted using an intravenous route of administration .
A 104 - week rat inhalation toxicology study to assess the carcinogenic potential of aztreonam demonstrated no drug - related increase in the incidence of tumors .
Rats were exposed to aerosolized aztreonam for up to 4 hours per day .
Peak plasma levels of aztreonam averaging approximately 6 . 8 mcg / mL were measured in rats at the highest dose level .
Genetic toxicology studies performed with aztreonam in vitro ( Ames test , mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , gene conversion assay , chromosome aberration assay in human lymphocytes ) and in vivo ( mouse bone marrow cytogenetic assay ) did not reveal evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential .
A two - generation reproduction study in rats at daily doses of 150 , 600 , or 2 , 400 mg / kg given prior to and during gestation and lactation , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
Based on body surface area , the high dose is 2 . 9 - fold greater than the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for adults of 8 g per day .
There was a slightly reduced survival rate during the lactation period in the offspring of rats that received the highest dose , but not in offspring of rats that received lower doses of aztreonam .
Pregnancy In pregnant women , aztreonam crosses the placenta and enters the fetal circulation .
Developmental toxicity studies in pregnant rats and rabbits with daily doses of aztreonam up to 1 , 800 and 1 , 200 mg / kg , respectively , revealed no evidence of embryotoxicity or fetotoxicity or teratogenicity .
These doses , based on body surface area , are 2 . 2 - and 2 . 9 - fold greater than the MRHD for adults of 8 g per day .
A peri / postnatal study in rats revealed no drug - induced changes in any maternal , fetal , or neonatal parameters .
The highest dose used in this study , 1 , 800 mg / kg / day , is 2 . 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of aztreonam on human pregnancy outcomes .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , aztreonam should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Aztreonam is excreted in human milk in concentrations that are less than 1 % of concentrations determined in simultaneously obtained maternal serum ; consideration should be given to temporary discontinuation of nursing and use of formula feedings .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of intravenous aztreonam for injection have been established in the age groups 9 months to 16 years .
Use of aztreonam for injection in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of aztreonam for injection in adults with additional efficacy , safety , and pharmacokinetic data from noncomparative clinical studies in pediatric patients .
Sufficient data are not available for pediatric patients under 9 months of age or for the following treatment indications / pathogens : septicemia and skin and skin - structure infections ( where the skin infection is believed or known to be due to H . influenzae type b ) .
In pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis , higher doses of aztreonam for injection may be warranted .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and CLINICAL STUDIES . )
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of aztreonam for injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In elderly patients , the mean serum half - life of aztreonam increased and the renal clearance decreased , consistent with the age - related decrease in creatinine clearance .
Since aztreonam is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , renal function should be monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Renal Impairment in Adult Patients and Dosage in the Elderly ) .
Aztreonam for injection contains no sodium .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Local reactions such as phlebitis / thrombophlebitis following intravenous administration , and discomfort / swelling at the injection site following intramuscular administration occurred at rates of approximately 1 . 9 % and 2 . 4 % , respectively .
Systemic reactions ( considered to be related to therapy or of uncertain etiology ) occurring at an incidence of 1 % to 1 . 3 % include diarrhea , nausea and / or vomiting , and rash .
Reactions occurring at an incidence of less than 1 % are listed within each body system in order of decreasing severity : Hypersensitivity — anaphylaxis , angioedema , bronchospasm Hematologic — pancytopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis Gastrointestinal — abdominal cramps ; rare cases of C . difficile - associated diarrhea , including pseudomembranous colitis , or gastrointestinal bleeding have been reported .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment .
( See WARNINGS . )
Dermatologic — toxic epidermal necrolysis ( see WARNINGS ) , purpura , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , urticaria , petechiae , pruritus , diaphoresis Cardiovascular — hypotension , transient ECG changes ( ventricular bigeminy and PVC ) , flushing Respiratory — wheezing , dyspnea , chest pain Hepatobiliary — hepatitis , jaundice Nervous System — seizure , confusion , encephalopathy , vertigo , paresthesia , insomnia , dizziness Musculoskeletal — muscular aches Special Senses — tinnitus , diplopia , mouth ulcer , altered taste , numb tongue , sneezing , nasal congestion , halitosis Other — vaginal candidiasis , vaginitis , breast tenderness Body as a Whole — weakness , headache , fever , malaise Pediatric Adverse Reactions Of the 612 pediatric patients who were treated with aztreonam for injection in clinical trials , less than 1 % required discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events .
The following systemic adverse events , regardless of drug relationship , occurred in at least 1 % of treated patients in domestic clinical trials : rash ( 4 . 3 % ) , diarrhea ( 1 . 4 % ) , and fever ( 1 . 0 % ) .
These adverse events were comparable to those observed in adult clinical trials .
In 343 pediatric patients receiving intravenous therapy , the following local reactions were noted : pain ( 12 % ) , erythema ( 2 . 9 % ) , induration ( 0 . 9 % ) , and phlebitis ( 2 . 1 % ) .
In the US patient population , pain occurred in 1 . 5 % of patients , while each of the remaining 3 local reactions had an incidence of 0 . 5 % .
The following laboratory adverse events , regardless of drug relationship , occurred in at least 1 % of treated patients : increased eosinophils ( 6 . 3 % ) , increased platelets ( 3 . 6 % ) , neutropenia ( 3 . 2 % ) , increased AST ( 3 . 8 % ) , increased ALT ( 6 . 5 % ) , and increased serum creatinine ( 5 . 8 % ) .
In US pediatric clinical trials , neutropenia ( absolute neutrophil count less than 1 , 000 / mm3 ) occurred in 11 . 3 % of patients ( 8 / 71 ) younger than 2 years receiving 30 mg / kg every 6 hours .
AST and ALT elevations to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal were noted in 15 % to 20 % of patients aged 2 years or above receiving 50 mg / kg every 6 hours .
The increased frequency of these reported laboratory adverse events may be due to either increased severity of illness treated or higher doses of aztreonam for injection administered .
Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were : Hepatic — elevations of AST ( SGOT ) , ALT ( SGPT ) , and alkaline phosphatase ; signs or symptoms of hepatobiliary dysfunction occurred in less than 1 % of recipients ( see above ) .
Hematologic — increases in prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , positive Coombs ' test .
Renal — increases in serum creatinine .
OVERDOSAGE If necessary , aztreonam may be cleared from the serum by hemodialysis and / or peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adult Patients Aztreonam for injection may be administered intravenously or by intramuscular injection .
Dosage and route of administration should be determined by susceptibility of the causative organisms , severity and site of infection , and the condition of the patient .
Table 2 : Aztreonam for Injection Dosage Guidelines for Adults * * Maximum recommended dose is 8 g per day .
Type of Infection Dose Frequency ( hours ) Urinary tract infections 500 mg or 1 g 8 or 12 Moderately severe systemic infections 1 g or 2 g 8 or 12 Severe systemic or life - threatening infections 2 g 6 or 8 Because of the serious nature of infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa , dosage of 2 g every six or eight hours is recommended , at least upon initiation of therapy , in systemic infections caused by this organism .
The intravenous route is recommended for patients requiring single doses greater than 1 g or those with bacterial septicemia , localized parenchymal abscess ( e . g . , intra - abdominal abscess ) , peritonitis , or other severe systemic or life - threatening infections .
The duration of therapy depends on the severity of infection .
Generally , aztreonam for injection should be continued for at least 48 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
Persistent infections may require treatment for several weeks .
Doses smaller than those indicated should not be used .
Renal Impairment in Adult Patients Prolonged serum levels of aztreonam may occur in patients with transient or persistent renal insufficiency .
Therefore , the dosage of aztreonam for injection should be halved in patients with estimated creatinine clearances between 10 and 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 after an initial loading dose of 1 or 2 g .
When only the serum creatinine concentration is available , the following formula ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to approximate the creatinine clearance ( Clcr ) .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Males : Clcr = weight ( kg ) x ( 140 - age ) 72 x serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) Females : 0 . 85 x above value In patients with severe renal failure ( creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , such as those supported by hemodialysis , the usual dose of 500 mg , 1 g , or 2 g should be given initially .
The maintenance dose should be one - fourth of the usual initial dose given at the usual fixed interval of 6 , 8 , or 12 hours .
For serious or life - threatening infections , in addition to the maintenance doses , one - eighth of the initial dose should be given after each hemodialysis session .
Dosage in the Elderly Renal status is a major determinant of dosage in the elderly ; these patients in particular may have diminished renal function .
Serum creatinine may not be an accurate determinant of renal status .
Therefore , as with all antibiotics eliminated by the kidneys , estimates of creatinine clearance should be obtained and appropriate dosage modifications made if necessary .
Dosage in Pediatric Patients Aztreonam for injection should be administered intravenously to pediatric patients with normal renal function .
There are insufficient data regarding intramuscular administration to pediatric patients or dosing in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use . )
Table 3 : Aztreonam for Injection Dosage Guidelines for Pediatric Patients * * Maximum recommended dose is 120 mg / kg / day .
Type of Infection Dose Frequency ( hours ) Mild to moderate infections 30 mg / kg 8 Moderate to severe infections 30 mg / kg 6 or 8 CLINICAL STUDIES A total of 612 pediatric patients aged 1 month to 12 years were enrolled in uncontrolled clinical trials of aztreonam in the treatment of serious Gram - negative infections , including urinary tract , lower respiratory tract , skin and skin - structure , and intra - abdominal infections .
Preparation of Parenteral Solutions General Upon the addition of the diluent to the container , contents should be shaken immediately and vigorously .
Constituted solutions are not for multiple - dose use ; should the entire volume in the container not be used for a single dose , the unused solution must be discarded .
Depending upon the concentration of aztreonam and diluent used , constituted aztreonam for injection yields a colorless to light straw yellow solution which may develop a slight pink tint on standing ( potency is not affected ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit .
Admixtures with Other Antibiotics Intravenous infusion solutions of aztreonam not exceeding 2 % w / v prepared with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % or Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % , to which clindamycin phosphate , gentamicin sulfate , tobramycin sulfate , or cefazolin sodium have been added at concentrations usually used clinically , are stable for up to 48 hours at room temperature or 7 days under refrigeration .
Ampicillin sodium admixtures with aztreonam in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % are stable for 24 hours at room temperature and 48 hours under refrigeration ; stability in Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % is 2 hours at room temperature and 8 hours under refrigeration .
Aztreonam - cloxacillin sodium and aztreonam - vancomycin hydrochloride admixtures are stable in Dianeal 137 ( Peritoneal Dialysis Solution ) with 4 . 25 % Dextrose for up to 24 hours at room temperature .
Aztreonam is incompatible with nafcillin sodium , cephradine , and metronidazole .
Other admixtures are not recommended since compatibility data are not available .
Intravenous Solutions For Bolus Injection : The contents of an aztreonam for injection vial should be constituted with 6 to 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
For Infusion : If the contents of a vial are to be transferred to an appropriate infusion solution , each gram of aztreonam should be initially constituted with at least 3 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Further dilution may be obtained with one of the following intravenous infusion solutions : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Ringer ' s Injection , USP Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP Dextrose Injection , USP , 5 % or 10 % Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 5 % : 0 . 9 % , 5 % : 0 . 45 % , or 5 % : 0 . 2 % Sodium Lactate Injection , USP ( M / 6 Sodium Lactate ) Ionosol ® B and 5 % Dextrose Isolyte ® E Isolyte ® E with 5 % Dextrose Isolyte ® M with 5 % Dextrose Normosol ® - R Normosol ® - R and 5 % Dextrose Normosol ® - M and 5 % Dextrose Mannitol Injection , USP , 5 % or 10 % Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection Plasma - Lyte M and 5 % Dextrose Intramuscular Solutions The contents of an aztreonam for injection vial should be constituted with at least 3 mL of an appropriate diluent per gram aztreonam .
The following diluents may be used : Sterile Water for Injection , USP Sterile Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( with benzyl alcohol or with methyl - and propylparabens ) Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( with benzyl alcohol ) Stability of Intravenous and Intramuscular Solutions Aztreonam solutions for intravenous infusion at concentrations not exceeding 2 % w / v must be used within 48 hours following constitution if kept at controlled room temperature ( 20º to 25ºC / 68º to 77ºF , see USP ) or within 7 days if refrigerated ( 2º to 8ºC / 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Aztreonam for Injection , USP , solutions at concentrations exceeding 2 % w / v , except those prepared with Sterile Water for Injection , USP or Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , should be used promptly after preparation ; the 2 excepted solutions must be used within 48 hours if stored at controlled room temperature or within 7 days if refrigerated .
Intravenous Administration Bolus Injection : A bolus injection may be used to initiate therapy .
The dose should be slowly injected directly into a vein , or the tubing of a suitable administration set , over a period of 3 to 5 minutes ( see next paragraph regarding flushing of tubing ) .
Infusion : With any intermittent infusion of aztreonam and another drug with which it is not pharmaceutically compatible , the common delivery tube should be flushed before and after delivery of aztreonam with any appropriate infusion solution compatible with both drug solutions ; the drugs should not be delivered simultaneously .
Any aztreonam for injection infusion should be completed within a 20 - to 60 - minute period .
With use of a Y - type administration set , careful attention should be given to the calculated volume of aztreonam solution required so that the entire dose will be infused .
A volume control administration set may be used to deliver an initial dilution of aztreonam for injection ( see Preparation of Parenteral Solutions : Intravenous Solutions : For Infusion ) into a compatible infusion solution during administration ; in this case , the final dilution of aztreonam should provide a concentration not exceeding 2 % w / v .
Intramuscular Administration The dose should be given by deep injection into a large muscle mass ( such as the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus or lateral part of the thigh ) .
Aztreonam is well tolerated and should not be admixed with any local anesthetic agent .
HOW SUPPLIED Aztreonam for Injection , USP Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each NP400120 NDC 63323 - 401 - 26 Unit of 10 1 g per vial NDC 63323 - 401 - 21 20 mL single - dose vial NP400220 NDC 63323 - 402 - 30 Unit of 10 2 g per vial NDC 63323 - 402 - 03 30 mL single - dose vial Storage Store in original packages at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; avoid excessive heat .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
The brand names mentioned in this document are the trademarks of their respective owners .
Novaplus is a registered trademark of Vizient , Inc .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451441 B Revised : March 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Aztreonam 1 gram Single Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 401 - 21 NP400120 Aztreonam for Injection , USP 1 gram * per vial Single - Dose Vial For Intravenous or Intramuscular use after constitution Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Aztreonam 1 gram Single Dose Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 401 - 26 NP400120 Aztreonam for Injection , USP 1 gram * per vial For Intravenous or Intramuscular use after constitution 10 x 20 mL Single - Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Aztreonam 2 grams Single Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 402 - 03 NP400220 Aztreonam for Injection , USP 2 grams * per vial Single - Dose Vial For Intravenous or Intramuscular use after constitution Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Aztreonam 2 grams Single Dose Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 402 - 30 NP400220 Aztreonam for Injection , USP 2 grams * per vial For Intravenous or Intramuscular use after constitution 10 x 30 mL Single - Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
