1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OMTRYG ™ ( omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ) capsules , USP , is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride ( TG ) levels in adult patients with severe ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) hypertriglyceridemia .
Usage Considerations : Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving OMTRYG and should continue this diet during treatment with OMTRYG .
Laboratory studies should be done to ascertain that the lipid levels are consistently abnormal before instituting OMTRYG therapy .
Every attempt should be made to control serum lipids with appropriate diet , exercise , weight loss in obese patients , and control of any medical problems , such as diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism , that are contributing to the lipid abnormalities .
Medications known to exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia ( such as beta blockers , thiazides , estrogens ) should be discontinued or changed if possible prior to consideration of triglyceride - lowering drug therapy .
Limitations of Use : The effect of OMTRYG on the risk for pancreatitis has not been determined .
The effect of OMTRYG on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
OMTRYG is a combination of ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids , principally eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride ( TG ) levels in adult patients with severe ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) hypertriglyceridemia .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : The effect of OMTRYG on the risk for pancreatitis has not been determined .
( 1 ) The effect of OMTRYG on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Assess triglyceride levels carefully before initiating therapy .
Identify other causes ( e . g . , diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , or medications ) of high triglyceride levels and manage as appropriate .
[ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
• • Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving OMTRYG and should continue this diet during treatment with OMTRYG .
The daily dose of OMTRYG is 4 capsules per day taken as a single dose ( 4 capsules ) or as 2 capsules given twice daily .
OMTRYG should be taken with meals .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Patients should be advised to swallow OMTRYG capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve or chew OMTRYG .
• • The daily dose of OMTRYG is 4 capsules per day taken as a single dose or as 2 capsules given twice daily .
OMTRYG should be taken with meals .
( 2 ) • • Patients should be advised to swallow OMTRYG capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve or chew OMTRYG .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS OMTRYG ( omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ) capsules , USP , are supplied as 1 . 2 - gram , transparent , soft - gelatin capsules filled with light - yellow oil and bearing the designation TP0001 .
Capsules : 1 . 2 grams .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS OMTRYG is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction ) to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or any component of OMTRYG .
Patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction ) to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or any component of OMTRYG .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • In patients with hepatic impairment , monitor ALT and AST levels periodically during therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • OMTRYG may increase levels of LDL .
Monitor LDL levels periodically during therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Use with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to fish and / or shellfish .
( 5 . 2 ) • • There is a possible association between omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and more frequent recurrences of symptomatic atrial fibrillation or flutter in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation , particularly within the first months of initiating therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Monitoring : Laboratory Tests In patients with hepatic impairment , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with OMTRYG .
In some patients , increases in ALT levels without a concurrent increase in AST levels were observed .
In some patients , OMTRYG increases LDL - cholesterol levels .
LDL - cholesterol levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with OMTRYG .
5 . 2 Fish Allergy OMTRYG contains ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids ( EPA and DHA ) obtained from the oil of several fish sources .
It is not known whether patients with allergies to fish and / or shellfish are at increased risk of an allergic reaction to OMTRYG .
OMTRYG should be used with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to fish and / or shellfish .
5 . 3 Recurrent Atrial Fibrillation ( AF ) or Flutter In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of 663 patients with symptomatic paroxysmal AF ( n = 542 ) or persistent AF ( n = 121 ) , recurrent AF or flutter was observed in patients randomized to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters who received 8 capsules / day for 7 days and 4 capsules / day thereafter for 23 weeks at a higher rate relative to placebo .
Patients in this trial had median baseline triglycerides of 127 mg / dL , had no substantial structural heart disease , were taking no anti - arrhythmic therapy ( rate control permitted ) , and were in normal sinus rhythm at baseline .
At 24 weeks , in the paroxysmal AF stratum , there were 129 ( 47 % ) first recurrent symptomatic AF or flutter events on placebo and 141 ( 53 % ) on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters [ primary endpoint , HR 1 . 19 ; 95 % CI 0 . 93 , 1 . 35 ] .
In the persistent AF stratum , there were 19 ( 35 % ) events on placebo and 34 ( 52 % ) events on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters [ HR 1 . 63 ; 95 % CI 0 . 91 , 2 . 18 ] .
For both strata combined , the HR was 1 . 25 ; 95 % CI 1 . 00 , 1 . 40 .
Although the clinical significance of these results is uncertain , there is a possible association between omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and more frequent recurrences of symptomatic atrial fibrillation or flutter in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation , particularly within the first 2 to 3 months of initiating therapy .
OMTRYG is not indicated for the treatment of AF or flutter .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 3 % and greater than placebo ) were eructation , dyspepsia , and taste perversion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Trygg Pharma at 1 - 855 - 3 - OMTRYG ( 1 - 855 - 366 - 8794 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions reported in at least 3 % and at a greater rate than placebo for patients treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters based on pooled data across 23 clinical studies are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring at Incidence ≥ 3 % and Greater than Placebo in Clinical Studies of Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters * Studies included subjects with HTG and severe HTG .
† OMTRYG and omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters each contain , among other components , at least 900 mg per capsule of ethyl esters from omega - 3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils .
Body System Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters † ( N = 655 ) Placebo ( N = 370 ) Adverse Reaction * n % n % Eructation 29 4 5 1 Dyspepsia 22 3 6 2 Taste perversion 27 4 1 < 1 Additional adverse reactions from clinical studies are listed below : Digestive System : Constipation , gastrointestinal disorder and vomiting .
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Increased ALT and increased AST .
Skin : Pruritus and rash .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following events have been reported : anaphylactic reaction , hemorrhagic diathesis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Omega - 3 - acids may prolong bleeding time .
Patients taking OMTRYG and an anticoagulant or other drug affecting coagulation ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents ) should be monitored periodically .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Anticoagulants or Other Drugs Affecting Coagulation Some studies with omega - 3 - acids demonstrated prolongation of bleeding time .
The prolongation of bleeding time reported in these studies has not exceeded normal limits and did not produce clinically significant bleeding episodes .
Clinical studies have not been done to thoroughly examine the effect of OMTRYG and concomitant anticoagulants .
Patients receiving treatment with OMTRYG and an anticoagulant or other drug affecting coagulation ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents ) should be monitored periodically .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
It is unknown whether OMTRYG can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
OMTRYG should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the patient justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Animal Data : Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have been shown to have an embryocidal effect in pregnant rats when given in doses resulting in exposures 7 times the recommended human dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison .
In female rats given oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day beginning 2 weeks prior to mating and continuing through gestation and lactation , no adverse effects were observed in the high dose group ( 5 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 1 , 000 , 3 , 000 , and 6 , 000 mg / kg / day from gestation day 6 through 15 , no adverse effects were observed ( 14 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day from gestation day 14 through lactation day 21 , no adverse effects were seen at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
However , decreased live births ( 20 % reduction ) and decreased survival to postnatal day 4 ( 40 % reduction ) were observed in a dose - ranging study using higher doses of 3 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 7 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rabbits given oral gavage doses of 375 , 750 , and 1 , 500 mg / kg / day from gestation day 7 through 19 , no findings were observed in the fetuses in groups given 375 mg / kg / day ( 2 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
However , at higher doses , evidence of maternal toxicity was observed ( 4 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Studies with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have demonstrated excretion in human milk .
The effect of this excretion on the infant of a nursing mother is unknown ; caution should be exercised when OMTRYG is administered to a nursing mother .
An animal study in lactating rats given oral gavage 14 C - ethyl EPA demonstrated that drug levels were 6 to 14 times higher in milk than in plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A limited number of patients older than 65 years were enrolled in the clinical studies of omega ‑ 3 ‑ acid ethyl esters .
Safety and efficacy findings in subjects older than 60 years did not appear to differ from those of subjects younger than 60 years .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE OMTRYG does not have any known drug abuse or withdrawal effects .
11 DESCRIPTION OMTRYG , a lipid - regulating agent , is supplied as a liquid - filled gel capsule for oral administration .
Each OMTRYG capsule contains 1 . 2 grams of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters type A , USP , liquid concentrate consisting of at least 900 mg omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters sourced from fish oils .
These are predominantly a combination of ethyl esters of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA - approximately 465 mg ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA - approximately 375 mg ) .
The empirical formula of EPA ethyl ester is C22H34O2 , and the molecular weight of EPA ethyl ester is 330 . 51 .
The structural formula of EPA ethyl ester is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula of DHA ethyl ester is C24H36O2 , and the molecular weight of DHA ethyl ester is 356 . 55 .
The structural formula of DHA ethyl ester is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] OMTRYG capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients : 4 . 6 mg α - tocopherol ( in a carrier of sunflower oil ) , gelatin , glycerol , and purified water ( components of the capsule shell ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of OMTRYG is not completely understood .
Potential mechanisms of action include inhibition of acyl - CoA : 1 , 2 - diacylglycerol acyltransferase , increased mitochondrial and peroxisomal ß - oxidation in the liver , decreased lipogenesis in the liver , and increased plasma lipoprotein lipase activity .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters may reduce the synthesis of triglycerides in the liver because EPA and DHA are poor substrates for the enzymes responsible for TG synthesis , and EPA and DHA inhibit esterification of other fatty acids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic Bioavailability : When OMTRYG was administered under fasted condition , on average the peak ( Cmax ) and total ( AUC0 - 72 h ) exposure were lower by up to 20 to 80 - fold , respectively , for total plasma EPA , and lower by up to 2 to 4 - fold , respectively , for total plasma DHA , in comparison to those observed under fed condition ( high - fat high - calorie meal ) .
Therefore , OMTRYG should be taken with food .
In healthy volunteers and in patients with hypertriglyceridemia , EPA and DHA were absorbed when administered as ethyl esters orally .
Omega - 3 - acids administered as ethyl esters induced significant , dose - dependent increases in serum phospholipid EPA content , though increases in DHA content were less marked and not dose - dependent when administered as ethyl esters .
Specific Populations : Age : Uptake of EPA and DHA into serum phospholipids in subjects treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters was independent of age ( < 49 years versus ≥ 49 years ) .
Gender : Females tended to have more uptake of EPA into serum phospholipids than males .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
Pediatric : Pharmacokinetics of OMTRYG have not been studied .
Renal or Hepatic Impairment : OMTRYG has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Drug - Drug Interactions : Simvastatin : In a 14 - day study of 24 healthy adult subjects , daily co - administration of simvastatin 80 mg with 4 capsules of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters did not affect the extent ( AUC ) or rate ( Cmax ) of exposure to simvastatin or the major active metabolite , beta - hydroxy simvastatin , at steady state .
Atorvastatin : In a 14 - day study of 50 healthy adult subjects , daily co ‑ administration of atorvastatin 80 mg with 4 capsules of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters did not affect AUC or Cmax of exposure to atorvastatin , 2 ‑ hydroxyatorvastatin , or 4 - hydroxyatorvastatin at steady state .
Rosuvastatin : In a 14 - day study of 48 healthy adult subjects , daily co ‑ administration of rosuvastatin 40 mg with 4 capsules of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters did not affect AUC or Cmax of exposure to rosuvastatin at steady state .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that clinically significant cytochrome P450 mediated inhibition by EPA / DHA combinations are not expected in humans .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a rat carcinogenicity study with oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters for 101 weeks and females for 89 weeks without an increased incidence of tumors ( up to 5 times human systemic exposures following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Standard lifetime carcinogenicity bioassays were not conducted in mice .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) test with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli or in the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster V79 lung cells or human lymphocytes .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In a rat fertility study with oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated for 10 weeks prior to mating and females were treated for 2 weeks prior to and throughout mating , gestation , and lactation .
No adverse effect on fertility was observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 capsules / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of OMTRYG compared with both placebo and an omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters product in 254 patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 500 - 1500 mg / dL ) .
Patients entered a 6 - week wash - out / dietary lead - in period and then were randomized to 12 - week treatment with either OMTRYG , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , or placebo ( vegetable oil ) , each administered as 4 capsules once daily .
Each capsule of both OMTRYG and omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters contains , among other components , at least 900 mg of ethyl esters from omega - 3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils .
The primary endpoint was percent change in serum triglycerides ( TG ) from baseline to Week 12 .
The secondary endpoints were percent change in non ‑ HDL ‑ C , VLDL ‑ C , LDL ‑ C , and HDL ‑ C from baseline to Week 12 .
Overall , the mean age was 51 years , 72 % were men , 92 % were Caucasian , the mean BMI was 33 kg / m2 , and 21 % were taking a statin .
The baseline median TG level was 675 mg / dL , mean LDL ‑ C was 87 mg / dL , and mean HDL ‑ C was 30 mg / dL .
OMTRYG statistically significantly reduced TG at Week 12 compared with placebo ( p - value < 0 . 05 ) .
The changes in the major lipid parameters for the groups receiving OMTRYG , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , and placebo are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Median Baseline and Percent Change From Baseline in Lipid Parameters in Patients with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) OMTRYG N = 104 Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters N = 103 Placebo N = 43 Median difference from Placebo Parameter BL % Change BL % Change BL % Change OMTRYG vs . Placebo Omega - 3 - Acid EE vs . Placebo BL = Baseline ( mg / dL ) median ; % Change = Median Percent Change from Baseline ; Median difference from placebo = Hodges Lehmann median of all pairwise differences from placebo * p < 0 . 05 , ** p < 0 . 01 , statistically significant difference between treatment groups based on the pre - specified Hommel method for controlling Type 1 error among the secondary endpoints .
TG 702 - 24 . 7 655 - 26 . 8 624 - 17 . 4 - 12 . 2 * - 14 . 0 * Non - HDL - C 237 - 9 . 2 210 - 3 . 6 222 - 0 . 8 - 8 . 5 - 3 . 5 TC 270 - 8 . 1 244 - 1 . 0 250 - 0 . 8 - 6 . 9 - 1 . 9 VLDL - C 153 - 21 . 2 117 - 18 . 0 114 + 5 . 6 - 28 . 7 ** - 23 . 7 * HDL - C 28 0 . 0 30 0 . 0 30 0 . 0 + 3 . 9 + 5 . 2 LDL - C 78 + 20 . 3 85 + 12 . 8 94 - 5 . 9 + 24 . 7 ** + 18 . 9 * The effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 capsules per day were assessed in 2 randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel - group studies of 84 adult patients ( 42 on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , 42 on placebo ) with severe hypertriglyceridemia .
Patients whose baseline TG levels were between 500 and 2 , 000 mg / dL were enrolled in these 2 studies of 6 and 16 weeks duration .
The median triglyceride and LDL - C levels in these patients were 792 mg / dL and 100 mg / dL , respectively .
Median HDL - C level was 23 . 0 mg / dL .
The changes in the major lipoprotein lipid parameters for the groups receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or placebo are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Median Baseline and Percent Change From Baseline in Lipid Parameters in Patients with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) Parameter Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters * N = 42 Placebo N = 42 Difference BL % Change BL % Change BL = Baseline ( mg / dL ) ; % Change = Median Percent Change from Baseline ; Difference = Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters Median % Change – Placebo Median % Change * OMTRYG and omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters each contain , among other components , at least 900 mg per capsule of ethyl esters from omega - 3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils .
TG 816 - 44 . 9 788 + 6 . 7 - 51 . 6 Non - HDL - C 271 - 13 . 8 292 - 3 . 6 - 10 . 2 TC 296 - 9 . 7 314 - 1 . 7 - 8 . 0 VLDL - C 175 - 41 . 7 175 - 0 . 9 - 40 . 8 HDL - C 22 + 9 . 1 24 0 . 0 + 9 . 1 LDL - C 89 + 44 . 5 108 - 4 . 8 + 49 . 3 Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters reduced median TG , VLDL - C , and non - HDL - C levels and increased HDL - C from baseline relative to placebo .
Treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters to reduce very high TG levels may result in elevations in LDL - C and non - HDL - C in some individuals .
Patients should be monitored to ensure that the LDL - C level does not increase excessively .
The effect of OMTRYG on the risk of pancreatitis has not been evaluated .
The effect of OMTRYG on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OMTRYG ( omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ) capsules , USP , 1 . 2 grams , are supplied as type A transparent soft - gelatin capsules filled with light - yellow oil and bearing the designation TP0001 .
Bottles of 120 : NDC 61112 - 001 - 01 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) • • Use OMTRYG with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to fish and / or shellfish [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients that use of lipid - regulating agents does not reduce the importance of adhering to diet [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to take OMTRYG as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , patients should take it as soon as they remember .
However , if they miss one day of OMTRYG , they should not double the dose when they take it .
• • Advise patients to take OMTRYG capsules with meals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to swallow OMTRYG capsules whole .
Do not break , open , crush , dissolve or chew OMTRYG [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Patient labeling is provided as a tear - off leaflet at the end of this full prescribing information .
Manufactured for : Trygg Pharma , Inc . 1001 North 19 th St . Suite 1200 Arlington , VA 22209 OMTRYG is a registered trademark of Trygg Pharma Inc .
PHARMACIST - DETACH HERE AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO PATIENT PATIENT INFORMATION OMTRYG ™ ( om ’ trig ) ( Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters ) Capsules , USP Read this Patient Information before you start taking OMTRYG , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is OMTRYG ?
OMTRYG is a prescription medicine used along with a low fat and low cholesterol diet to lower very high triglyceride ( fat ) levels in adults .
It is not known if OMTRYG changes your risk of having inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
It is not known if OMTRYG prevents you from having a heart attack or stroke .
It is not known if OMTRYG is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take OMTRYG ?
Do not take OMTRYG if you are allergic to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or any of the ingredients in OMTRYG .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in OMTRYG .
What should I tell my doctor before taking OMTRYG ?
Before you take OMTRYG , tell your doctor if you : • • have diabetes • • have a low thyroid problem ( hypothyroidism ) • • have a liver problem • • have a pancreas problem • • have a certain heart rhythm problem called atrial fibrillation or flutter • • are allergic to fish or shellfish .
It is not known if people who are allergic to fish or shellfish are also allergic to OMTRYG .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if OMTRYG will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
OMTRYG can pass into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take OMTRYG or breastfeed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicine , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
OMTRYG can interact with certain other medicines that you are taking .
Using OMTRYG with medicines that affect blood clotting ( anticoagulants or blood thinners ) may cause serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take OMTRYG ?
• • Take OMTRYG exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• • You should not take more than 4 capsules of OMTRYG each day .
Either take all 4 capsules at one time , or 2 capsules two times a day .
• • Do not change your dose or stop OMTRYG without talking to your doctor .
• • Take OMTRYG with meals .
• • Take OMTRYG capsules whole .
Do not break , crush , dissolve , or chew OMTRYG capsules before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow OMTRYG capsules whole , tell your doctor .
You may need a different medicine .
• • Your doctor may start you on a diet that is low in saturated fat , cholesterol , carbohydrates , and low in added sugars before giving you OMTRYG .
Stay on this diet while you take OMTRYG .
• • Your doctor should do blood tests to check your triglyceride , bad cholesterol and liver function levels while you take OMTRYG .
What are the possible side effects of OMTRYG ?
OMTRYG may cause serious side effects , including : • • increases in the results of blood tests used to check your liver function ( ALT and AST ) and your bad cholesterol levels ( LDL - C ) .
• • increases in the frequency of a heart rhythm problem ( atrial fibrillation or flutter ) may especially happen in the first few months of taking OMTRYG if you already have that problem .
The most common side effects of OMTRYG include : • • burping • • upset stomach • • a change in your sense of taste Talk to your doctor if you have a side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of OMTRYG .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OMTRYG ?
• • Store OMTRYG at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not freeze OMTRYG .
• • Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep OMTRYG and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OMTRYG Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use OMTRYG for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OMTRYG to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about OMTRYG .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about OMTRYG that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to http : / / www . OMTRYG . com or call 1 ‑ 855 ‑ 3 ‑ OMTRYG ( 1 ‑ 855 ‑ 366 ‑ 8794 ) .
What are the ingredients in OMTRYG ?
Active Ingredient : omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , mostly EPA and DHA Inactive Ingredients : alpha - tocopherol ( in sunflower oil ) , gelatin , glycerol , purified water This patient labeling has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Trygg Pharma , Inc . 1001 North 19 th St . Suite 1200 Arlington , VA 22209 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 61112 - 001 - 01 Rx Only Omtryg ™ ( omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters ) Capsules , USP 1 . 2 grams * 120 Capsules TRYGG Pharma * Each capsule contains 1 . 2 grams of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters type A , USP , liquid concentrate consisting of at least 900 mg omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Each Capsule Provides : Eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) ethyl ester : 465 mg Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ethyl ester : 375 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Swallow capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve or chew .
Store at : 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Keep out of reach of children .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Manufactured by : Swiss Caps AG Husenstrasse 35 Kirchberg Switzerland , 9533 Manufactured for : Trygg Pharma , Inc . 1001 North 19 th St . Suite 1200 Arlington , VA 22209 89918 - 01 REV . 02 LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
