DESCRIPTION Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % is a white to off - white , water washable cream for intravaginal administration containing 0 . 4 % of the antifungal agent terconazole , cis - 1 - [ p - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - Dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - 4 - isopropylpiperazine , compounded in a cream base consisting of butylated hydroxyanisole , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , and purified water .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % is a white to off - white , water washable cream for intravaginal administration containing 0 . 8 % of the antifungal agent terconazole , cis - 1 - [ p - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - Dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - 4 - isopropylpiperazine , compounded in a cream base consisting of butylated hydroxyanisole , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , and purified water .
The structural formula of terconazole is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terconazole , a triazole derivative , is a white to almost white powder with a molecular weight of 532 . 47 .
It is insoluble in water ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; and soluble in butanol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Absorption Following a single intravaginal application of a suppository containing 240 mg 14 C - terconazole to healthy women , approximately 70 % ( range : 64 – 76 % ) of terconazole remains in the vaginal area during the suppository retention period ( 16 hours ) ; approximately 10 % ( range : 5 – 16 % ) of the administered radioactivity was absorbed systemically over 7 days .
Maximum plasma concentrations of terconazole occur 5 to 10 hours after intravaginal application of the cream or suppository .
Systemic exposure to terconazole is approximately proportional to the applied dose , whether as the cream or suppository .
The rate and extent of absorption of terconazole are similar in patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis ( pregnant or non - pregnant ) and healthy subjects .
Distribution Terconazole is highly protein bound ( 94 . 9 % ) in human plasma and the degree of binding is independent of drug concentration over the range of 0 . 01 to 5 . 0 mcg / mL .
Metabolism Systemically absorbed terconazole is extensively metabolized ( > 95 % ) .
Elimination Across various studies in healthy women , after single or multiple intravaginal administration of terconazole as the cream or suppository / ovule , the mean elimination half - life of unchanged terconazole ranged from 6 . 4 to 8 . 5 hours .
Following a single intravaginal administration of a suppository containing 240 mg 14 C - terconazole to hysterectomized or tubal ligated women , approximately 3 to 10 % ( mean ± SD : 5 . 7 ± 3 . 0 % ) of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in the urine and 2 to 6 % ( mean ± SD : 4 . 2 ± 1 . 6 % ) was eliminated in the feces during the 7 - day collection period .
Multiple Dosing There is no significant increase in maximum plasma concentration or overall exposure ( AUC ) after multiple daily applications of the cream for 7 days or suppositories for 3 days .
Photosensitivity reactions were observed in some normal volunteers following repeated dermal application of terconazole 2 . 0 % and 0 . 8 % creams under conditions of filtered artificial ultraviolet light .
Photosensitivity reactions have not been observed in U . S . and foreign clinical trials in patients who were treated with terconazole suppositories or vaginal cream ( 0 . 4 % and 0 . 8 % ) .
Microbiology Mechanism of action Terconazole , an azole antifungal agent , inhibits fungal cytochrome P - 450 - mediated 14 alpha - lanosterol demethylase enzyme .
This enzyme functions to convert lanosterol to ergosterol .
The accumulation of 14 alpha - methyl sterols correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol in the fungal cell wall and may be responsible for the antifungal activity of terconazole .
Mammalian cell demethylation is less sensitive to terconazole inhibition .
Activity in vitro Terconazole exhibits antifungal activity in vitro against Candida albicans and other Candida species .
The MIC values of terconazole against most Lactobacillus spp .
typically found in the human vagina were ≥ 128 mcg / mL ; therefore these beneficial bacteria are not affected by drug treatment .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terconazole Vaginal Cream is indicated for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( moniliasis ) .
As this product is effective only for vulvovaginitis caused by the genus Candida , the diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smears and / or cultures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients known to be hypersensitive to terconazole or to any of the components of the cream .
WARNINGS Anaphylaxis and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported during terconazole therapy .
Terconazole therapy should be discontinued if anaphylaxis or toxic epidermal necrolysis develops .
PRECAUTIONS General For vulvovaginal use only .
Terconazole is not for ophthalmic or oral use .
Discontinue use and do not retreat with terconazole if sensitization , irritation , fever , chills or flu - like symptoms are reported during use .
Laboratory Tests If there is lack of response to terconazole , appropriate microbiologic studies ( standard KOH smear and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens .
Drug Interactions The therapeutic effect of terconazole is not affected by oral contraceptive usage .
The levels of estradiol and progesterone did not differ significantly when 0 . 8 % terconazole vaginal cream was administered to healthy female volunteers established on a low dose oral contraceptive .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies to determine the carcinogenic potential of terconazole have not been performed .
Mutagenicity Terconazole was not mutagenic when tested in vitro for induction of microbial point mutations ( Ames test ) , or for inducing cellular transformation , or in vivo for chromosome breaks ( micronucleus test ) or dominant lethal mutations in mouse germ cells .
Impairment of Fertility No impairment of fertility occurred when female rats were administered terconazole orally up to 40 mg / kg / day for a three month period .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There was no evidence of teratogenicity when terconazole was administered orally up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 50 × the recommended intravaginal human dose of the 0 . 8 % vaginal cream formulation , and 100 × the intravaginal human dose of the 0 . 4 % vaginal cream formulation ) in rats , or 20 mg / kg / day in rabbits , or subcutaneously up to 20 mg / kg / day in rats .
Dosages at or below 10 mg / kg / day produced no embryotoxicity ; however , there was a delay in fetal ossification at 10 mg / kg / day in rats .
There was some evidence of embryotoxicity in rabbits and rats at 20 – 40 mg / kg .
In rats , this was reflected as a decrease in litter size and number of viable young and reduced fetal weight .
There was also delay in ossification and an increased incidence of skeletal variants .
The no - effect dose of 10 mg / kg / day resulted in a mean peak plasma level of terconazole in pregnant rats of 0 . 176 mcg / mL which exceeds by 44 times the mean peak plasma level ( 0 . 004 mcg / mL ) seen in normal subjects after intravaginal administration of terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream , and by 30 times the mean peak plasma level ( 0 . 006 mcg / mL ) seen in normal subjects after intravaginal administration of terconazole 0 . 8 % vaginal cream .
This safety assessment does not account for possible exposure of the fetus through direct transfer to terconazole from the irritated vagina by diffusion across amniotic membranes .
Since terconazole is absorbed from the human vagina , it should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
Terconazole may be used during the second and third trimester if the potential benefit outweighs the possible risks to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Animal studies have shown that rat offspring exposed via the milk of treated ( 40 mg / kg / orally ) dams showed decreased survival during the first few post - partum days , but overall pup weight and weight gain were comparable to or greater than controls throughout lactation .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for adverse reaction in nursing infants from terconazole , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of terconazole did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % During controlled clinical studies conducted in the United States , 521 patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were treated with terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream .
Based on comparative analyses with placebo , the adverse experiences considered most likely related to terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream were headache ( 26 % vs . 17 % with placebo ) and body pain ( 2 . 1 % vs . 0 % with placebo ) .
Fever ( 1 . 7 % vs . 0 . 5 % with placebo ) and chills ( 0 . 4 % vs . 0 . 0 % with placebo ) , vulvovaginal burning , itching and irritation have also been reported .
The adverse drug experience on terconazole most frequently causing discontinuation was vulvovaginal itching .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % During controlled clinical studies conducted in the United States , patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were treated with terconazole 0 . 8 % vaginal cream for three days .
Based on comparative analyses with placebo and a standard agent , the adverse experiences considered most likely related to terconazole 0 . 8 % vaginal cream were headache ( 21 % vs . 16 % with placebo ) and dysmenorrhea ( 6 % vs . 2 % with placebo ) .
Other adverse experiences reported with terconazole 0 . 8 % vaginal cream were abdominal pain ( 3 . 4 % vs . 1 % with placebo ) and fever ( 1 % vs . 0 . 3 % with placebo ) .
The adverse drug experience most frequently causing discontinuation of therapy was vulvovaginal itching , 0 . 7 % with the terconazole 0 . 8 % vaginal cream group and 0 . 3 % with the placebo group .
Post - marketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been first identified during post - marketing experience with terconazole .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General : Asthenia , Influenza - Like Illness consisting of multiple listed reactions including fever and chills , nausea , vomiting , myalgia , arthralgia , malaise Immune : Hypersensitivity , Anaphylaxis , Face Edema Nervous : Dizziness Respiratory : Bronchospasm Skin : Rash , Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis , Urticaria OVERDOSAGE In the rat , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 1741 and 849 mg / kg for the male and female , respectively .
The oral LD 50 values for the male and female dog were ≅ 1280 and ≥ 640 mg / kg , respectively .
In the event of oral ingestion of cream , supportive and symptomatic measures should be carried out .
If the cream is accidentally applied to the eyes , wash with clean water or saline and seek medical attention if symptoms persist .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % One full applicator ( 5 g ) of Terconazole Vaginal Cream ( 20 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for seven consecutive days .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % One full applicator ( 5 g ) of Terconazole Vaginal Cream ( 40 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for three consecutive days .
Before prescribing another course of therapy , the diagnosis should be reconfirmed by smears and / or cultures and other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis ruled out .
The therapeutic effect of these products is not affected by menstruation .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 1901 Product : 50090 - 2341 NDC : 50090 - 2341 - 0 45 g in a TUBE , WITH APPLICATOR Manufactured for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured by : Jubilant HollisterStier General Partnership Kirkland , Quebec , Canada H9H 4J4 or JOLLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Revised July 2014 TERCONAZOLE Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % 7 – Day Regimen TERCONAZOLE Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % 3 – Day Regimen PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS Filling the applicator : • 1 .
Remove the cap from the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Use the pointed tip on the top of the cap to puncture the seal on the tube .
• 3 .
Screw the applicator onto the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Squeeze the tube from the bottom and fill the applicator until the plunger stops .
• 5 .
Unscrew the applicator from the tube .
Using the applicator : • 1 .
Lie on your back with your knees drawn up toward your chest .
• 2 .
Holding the applicator by the ribbed end of the barrel , insert the filled applicator into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
• 3 .
Slowly press the plunger of the applicator to release the cream into the vagina .
• [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Remove the applicator from the vagina .
• 5 .
Apply one applicatorful each night for as many days at bedtime , as directed by your doctor .
Cleaning the applicator : After each use , you should thoroughly clean the applicator by following the procedure below : • 1 .
Pull the plunger out of the barrel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Wash the pieces with lukewarm , soapy water , and dry them thoroughly .
• 3 .
Put the applicator back together by gently pushing the plunger into the barrel as far as it will go .
NOTE : Store the cream at Controlled Room Temperature 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
See end flap for lot number and expiration date .
A WORD ABOUT YEAST INFECTIONS Why do yeast infections occur ?
Yeast infections are caused by an organism called Candida ( KAN di duh ) .
It may be present in small and harmless amounts in the mouth , digestive tract , and vagina .
Sometimes the natural balance of the vagina becomes upset .
This may lead to rapid growth of Candida , which results in a yeast infection .
Symptoms of a yeast infection include itching , burning , redness , and an abnormal discharge .
Your doctor can make the diagnosis of a yeast infection by evaluating your symptoms and looking at a sample of the discharge under the microscope .
How can I prevent yeast infections ?
Certain factors may increase your chance of developing a yeast infection .
These factors do n't actually cause the problem , but they may create a situation that allows the yeast to grow rapidly .
• Clothing : Tight jeans , nylon underwear , pantyhose , and wet bathing suits can hold in heat and moisture ( two conditions in which yeast organisms thrive ) .
Looser pants or skirts , 100 % cotton underwear , and stockings may help avoid this problem .
• Diet : Cutting down on sweets , milk products , and artificial sweeteners may reduce the risk of yeast infections .
• Antibiotics : Antibiotics work by eliminating disease - causing organisms .
While they are helpful in curing other problems , antibiotics may lead to an overgrowth of Candida in the vagina .
• Pregnancy : Hormonal changes in the body during pregnancy encourage the growth of yeast .
This is a very common time for an infection to occur .
Until the baby is born , it may be hard to completely eliminate yeast infections .
If you believe you are pregnant , tell your doctor .
• Menstruation : Sometimes monthly changes in hormone levels may lead to yeast infections .
• Diabetes : In addition to heat and moisture , yeast thrives on sugar .
Because diabetics often have sugar in their urine , their vaginas are rich in this substance .
Careful control of diabetes may help prevent yeast infection .
Controlling these factors can help eliminate yeast infections and may prevent them from coming back .
Some other helpful tips : • 1 .
For best results , be sure to use the medication as prescribed by your doctor , even if you feel better quickly .
• 2 .
Avoid sexual intercourse , if your doctor advises you to do so .
• 3 .
If your partner has any penile itching , redness , or discomfort , he should consult his physician and mention that you are being treated for a yeast infection .
• 4 .
You can use the medication even if you are having your menstrual period .
However , you should not use tampons because they may absorb the medication .
Instead , use external pads or napkins until you have finished your medication .
You may also wish to wear a sanitary napkin if the vaginal medication leaks .
• 5 .
Dry the genital area thoroughly after showering , bathing , or swimming .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp exercise clothes as soon as possible .
A dry environment is less likely to encourage the growth of yeast .
• 6 .
Wipe from front to rear ( away from the vagina ) after a bowel movement .
• 7 .
Do n't douche unless your doctor specifically tells you to do so .
Douching may disturb the vaginal balance .
• 8 .
Do n't scratch if you can help it .
Scratching can cause more irritation and spread the infection .
• 9 .
Discuss with your physician any medication you are already taking .
Certain types of medication can make your vagina more susceptible to infection .
• 10 .
Eat nutritious meals to promote your general health .
Manufactured for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured by : Jubilant HollisterStier General Partnership Kirkland , Quebec , Canada H9H 4J4 or JOLLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Revised July 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TERCONAZOLE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TERCONAZOLE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
