Dosage and Administration , Dose Selection ( ) , 02 / 2013 2 . 2 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INTUNIV is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications .
The efficacy of INTUNIV was studied for the treatment of ADHD in three controlled monotherapy clinical trials ( up to 8 weeks in duration ) and one controlled adjunctive trial with psychostimulants ( 8 weeks in duration ) in children and adolescents ages 6 - 17 who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD [ ] .
The effectiveness of INTUNIV for longer - term use ( more than 8 weeks ) has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials .
®®® see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ® INTUNIV is a central alpha - adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications ( ) .
® 2A1 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose : 1 to 4 mg once daily in the morning or evening ( ) .
2 . 2 • Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg / week ( ) .
2 . 2 • Do not crush , chew or break tablets before swallowing ( ) .
2 . 1 • Do not administer with high - fat meals , because of increased exposure ( ) .
2 . 1 • Do not substitute for immediate - release guanfacine tablets on a mg - per - mg basis , because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles ( ) .
2 . 3 • If switching from immediate - release guanfacine , discontinue that treatment and titrate with INTUNIV as directed ( ) .
® 2 . 3 • Consider dosing on a mg / kg basis .
Improvements observed starting at doses of 0 . 05 - 0 . 08 mg / kg once daily .
Doses up to 0 . 12 mg / kg once daily may provide additional benefit ( ) .
2 . 2 • When discontinuing , taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days ( ) .
2 . 5 2 . 1 General Instruction for Use Do not administer with high fat meals , due to increased exposure .
Swallow tablets whole .
Do not crush , chew , or break tablets because this will increase the rate of guanfacine release .
2 . 2 Dose Selection INTUNIV should be taken once daily , either in the morning or evening , at approximately same time each day .
Begin at a dose of 1 mg / day , and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg / week .
Maintain the dose within the range of 1 mg to 4 mg once daily , depending on clinical response and tolerability , for both monotherapy and adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant .
Doses above 4 mg / day have not been systematically studied in controlled clinical studies .
[ ] see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) Clinically relevant improvements were observed beginning at doses in the range 0 . 05 - 0 . 08 mg / kg once daily in both mono - and adjunctive therapy .
Efficacy increased with increasing weight - adjusted dose ( mg / kg ) .
If well tolerated , doses up to 0 . 12 mg / kg once daily may provide additional benefit .
In clinical trials , there were dose - related and exposure - related risks for several clinically significant adverse reactions ( hypotension , bradycardia , sedative events ) .
Thus , consideration should be given to dosing INTUNIV on a mg / kg basis , in order to balance the exposure - related potential benefits and risks of treatment .
® 2 . 3 Switching from Immediate - Release Guanfacine to INTUNIV If switching from immediate - release guanfacine , discontinue that treatment , and titrate with INTUNIV following above recommended schedule .
® Do not substitute for immediate - release guanfacine tablets on a milligram - per - milligram basis , because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles .
INTUNIV has a delayed T , reduced C and lower bioavailability compared to those of the same dose of immediate - release guanfacine .
® maxmax [ ] see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) 2 . 4 Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for an extended period .
The effectiveness of INTUNIV for longer - term use ( more than 9 weeks ) has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials .
Therefore the physician electing to use INTUNIV for extended periods should periodically re - evaluate the long - term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
®® 2 . 5 Discontinuation Infrequent , transient elevations in blood pressure above original baseline ( i . e . , rebound ) have been reported to occur upon abrupt discontinuation of guanfacine .
To minimize these effects , the dose should generally be tapered in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days .
2 . 6 Missed Doses When reinitiating patients to the previous maintenance dose after two or more missed consecutive doses , physicians should consider titration based on patient tolerability .
2 . 7 Dose Adjustment with Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Dosage adjustments for INTUNIV are recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , boceprevir , clarithromycin , conivaptan , grapefruit juice , indinavir , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , mibefradil , nefazodone , nelfinavir , posaconazole , ritonavir , saquinavir , telaprevir , telithromycin , and voriconazole ) , or CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , avasimibe , carbamazepine , phenytoin , rifampin , and St . John ’ s wort ) ( Table 1 ) .
® [ ] see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) Table 1 : Dose Adjustments in Patients Taking Concomitant CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Comedications Scenarios Initiate INTUNIV when taking comedications ® Continue INTUNIV when adding a comedication ® Stop a comedication when continuing INTUNIV ® Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors INTUNIV dose should be limited to 2 mg / day ® INTUNIV dose should be decreased by half .
® INTUNIV dose should be doubled based on patient tolerability .
The maximum dose should not exceed 4 mg / day ® Strong CYP3A4 Inducers INTUNIV dose may be titrated up to 8 mg / day .
Consider faster titration ( e . g . in increments of 2 mg / week ) ® Consider increase INTUNIV dose gradually in 1 - 2 weeks to 2 fold of the original dose based on patient tolerability .
® INTUNIV dose should be decreased by half in 1 - 2 weeks based on patient tolerability .
The maximum dose should not exceed 4 mg / day ® 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg extended - release tablets Extended - release tablets : 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ( ) 3 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to INTUNIV , its inactive ingredients or other products containing guanfacine should not take INTUNIV .
® [ ] see Description ( 11 ) ® History of hypersensitivity to INTUNIV , its inactive ingredients , or other products containing guanfacine ( ) .
® 4 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension , bradycardia , and syncope : Use INTUNIV with caution in patients at risk for hypotension , bradycardia , heart block , or syncope ( e . g . , those taking antihypertensives ) .
Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated ( ) .
® 5 . 1 • Sedation and somnolence : Occur commonly with INTUNIV .
Consider the potential for additive sedative effects with CNS depressant drugs .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to INTUNIV ( ) .
®® 5 . 2 5 . 1 Hypotension , Bradycardia , and Syncope Treatment with INTUNIV can cause dose - dependent decreases in blood pressure and heart rate .
Decreases were less pronounced over time of treatment .
Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported .
® [ ] see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Use INTUNIV with caution in patients with a history of hypotension , heart block , bradycardia , cardiovascular disease , or who have a history of syncope or may have a condition that predisposes them to syncope , such as hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , bradycardia , or dehydration .
Use INTUNIV with caution in patients treated concomitantly with antihypertensives or other drugs that can reduce blood pressure or heart rate or increase the risk of syncope .
Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated .
®® 5 . 2 Sedation and Somnolence Somnolence and sedation were commonly reported adverse reactions in clinical studies [ .
Before using INTUNIV with other centrally active depressants ( such as phenothiazines , barbiturates , or benzodiazepines ) , consider the potential for additive sedative effects .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to treatment with INTUNIV Advise patients to avoid use with alcohol . ]
see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ®® .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labelling : • Hypotension , bradycardia , and syncope [ ] see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) • Sedation and somnolence [ ] see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice placebo rate ) in the monotherapy trials : somnolence , fatigue , nausea , lethargy , and hypotension ( ) .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice placebo rate ) in the adjunctive trial : somnolence , fatigue , insomnia , dizziness , and abdominal pain ( ) .
66 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Shire US Inc . at 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 orwww . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
A total of 2 , 028 subjects have been exposed to INTUNIV while participating in clinical trials .
This includes 1 , 533 patients from completed studies in children and adolescents , and 495 subjects in completed studies in adult healthy volunteers .
® The mean duration of exposure of 446 patients that previously participated in two 2 - year , open - label long - term studies was approximately 10 months .
Monotherapy Trials The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate for placebo ) in the monotherapy trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) with INTUNIV were : somnolence , fatigue , nausea , lethargy , and hypotension .
Most Common Adverse Reactions - ® Twelve percent ( 12 % ) of patients receiving INTUNIV discontinued from the monotherapy clinical studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) due to adverse reactions , compared to 4 % in the placebo group .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of INTUNIV - treated patients from the studies were somnolence / sedation ( 6 % ) and fatigue ( 2 % ) .
Less common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation ( occurring in approximately 1 % of patients ) included : hypotension , headache , and dizziness .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation - ®® Adjunctive Trial The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate for placebo ) in the adjunctive trial with INTUNIV were : somnolence , fatigue , insomnia , dizziness , and abdominal pain .
Most Common Adverse Reactions - ® In the adjunctive clinical study , 3 % of patients receiving INTUNIV discontinued due to adverse reactions , compared to 1 % in the placebo group .
Each adverse reaction leading to discontinuation occurred in less than 1 % of INTUNIV - treated patients .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation –®® Short Term Monotherapy Clinical Studies - Two short - term , placebo - controlled , double - blind pivotal studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) were conducted in children and adolescents with ADHD , using fixed doses of INTUNIV ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg / day ) .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( occurring in ≥ 2 % of patients ) that were considered drug - related and reported in a greater percentage of patients taking INTUNIV compared to patients taking placebo are shown in Table 2 .
Adverse reactions that were dose - related include : somnolence / sedation , abdominal pain , dizziness , hypotension , dry mouth and constipation .
Common Adverse Reactions ®® Table 2 : Percentage of Patients Experiencing Common ( ≥ 2 % ) Adverse Reactions in Short - Term Monotherapy Studies 1 and 2 Adverse Reaction Term All Doses of INTUNIV ( N = 513 ) ® Placebo ( N = 149 ) Somnolence a 38 % 12 % Headache 24 % 19 % Fatigue 14 % 3 % Abdominal pain b 11 % 9 % Hypotension c 7 % 3 % Nausea 6 % 2 % Lethargy 6 % 3 % Dizziness 6 % 4 % Irritability 6 % 4 % Decreased appetite 5 % 3 % Dry mouth 4 % 1 % Constipation 3 % 1 % a : The somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
b : The abdominal pain term includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , and abdominal pain lower .
c : The hypotension term includes hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , and decreased blood pressure .
In an 8 - week , placebo - controlled study in children 6 - 12 years of age with ADHD in which INTUNIV was dosed once ( 1 - 4 mg / day ) in the morning or evening ( Study 4 ) , the safety profile was consistent with the once daily morning dosing of INTUNIV .
®® Short Term Adjunctive Clinical Study - A 8 - week , placebo - controlled , double - blind , dose - optimized pivotal study ( Study 3 ) was conducted in children and adolescents aged 6 - 17 years with a diagnosis of ADHD who were identified as having a sub - optimal response to psychostimulants .
Patients received INTUNIV ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg / day ) or placebo , dosed in the morning or in the evening , in combination with their morning dose of psychostimulant .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( occurring in ≥ 2 % of patients in the overall INTUNIV group ) that were reported in a greater percentage of patients taking INTUNIV compared to patients taking placebo are shown in Table 3 .
Common Adverse Reactions ®®® Table 3 : Percentage of Patients Experiencing Common ( ≥ 2 % ) Adverse Reactions in Short - Term Adjunctive Study 3 Adverse Reaction Term All Doses of INTUNIV ® ( N = 302 ) a Placebo ( N = 153 ) Headache 21 % 13 % Somnolence b 18 % 7 % Insomnia c 12 % 6 % Fatigue 10 % 3 % Abdominal pain d 10 % 3 % Dizziness 8 % 4 % Decreased appetite 7 % 4 % Nausea 5 % 3 % Diarrhea 4 % 1 % Hypotension e 3 % 0 % Affect lability 2 % 1 % Bradycardia 2 % 0 % Constipation 2 % 0 % Dry mouth 2 % 0 % a : The morning and evening dose groups of INTUNIV are combined .
b : The somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
c : The insomnia term includes insomnia , initial insomnia , and middle insomnia .
d : The abdominal pain term includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , and abdominal pain lower .
e : The hypotension term includes hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , and decreased blood pressure .
® Effects on Blood Pressure and Heart Rate In the monotherapy pediatric , short - term , controlled trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) , the maximum mean changes from baseline in systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and pulse were − 5 mmHg , − 3 mmHg , and − 6 bpm , respectively , for all dose groups combined ( generally one week after reaching target doses of 1 mg / day , 2 mg / day , 3 mg / day or 4 mg / day ) .
These changes were dose dependent .
Decreases in blood pressure and heart rate were usually modest and asymptomatic ; however , hypotension and bradycardia can occur .
Hypotension was reported as an adverse reaction for 7 % of the INTUNIV group and 3 % of the placebo group .
This includes orthostatic hypotension , which was reported for 1 % of the INTUNIV group and none in the placebo group .
In the adjunctive trial , hypotension ( 3 % ) and bradycardia ( 2 % ) were observed in patients treated with INTUNIV as compared to none in the placebo group .
In long - term , open label studies , ( mean exposure of approximately 10 months ) , maximum decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure occurred in the first month of therapy .
Decreases were less pronounced over time .
Syncope occurred in 1 % of pediatric subjects in the clinical program .
The majority of these cases occurred in the long - term , open - label studies .
®®® Other Adverse Reactions Observed in Clinical Studies Table 4 includes additional adverse reactions observed in short - term , placebo - controlled and long - term , open - label clinical studies not included elsewhere in section 6 . 1 , listed by organ system .
Table 4 : Other adverse reactions observed in clinical studies Body System Adverse Reaction Cardiac Atrioventricular block , sinus arrhythmia Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia , stomach discomfort , vomiting General Asthenia , chest pain Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity Investigations Increased alanine amino transferase , increased weight Nervous system Convulsion Psychiatric Agitation , anxiety , depression , nightmare Renal Increased urinary frequency , enuresis Respiratory Asthma Vascular Hypertension , pallor 6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of guanfacine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
An open - label post - marketing study involving 21 , 718 patients was conducted to assess the safety of guanfacine ( as the hydrochloride ) 1 mg / day given at bedtime for 28 days .
Guanfacine was administered with or without other antihypertensive agents .
Adverse events reported in the post - marketing study at an incidence greater than 1 % included dry mouth , dizziness , somnolence , fatigue , headache and nausea .
The most commonly reported adverse events in this study were the same as those observed in controlled clinical trials .
Less frequent , possibly guanfacine - related events observed in the post - marketing study and / or reported spontaneously , not included in , include : section 6 . 1 edema , malaise , tremor General : palpitations , tachycardia Cardiovascular : paresthesias , vertigo Central Nervous System : blurred vision Eye Disorders : arthralgia , leg cramps , leg pain , myalgia Musculo - Skeletal System : confusion , hallucinations Psychiatric : impotence Reproductive System , Male : dyspnea Respiratory System : alopecia , dermatitis , exfoliative dermatitis , pruritus , rash Skin and Appendages : alterations in taste Special Senses : 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be affected significantly by CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers ( Figure 1 ) .
Dose adjustments are recommended .
Guanfacine does not significantly affect exposures of methylphenidate and lisdexamfetamine when coadministered ( Figure 2 ) .
Therefore , no dose adjustments in methylphenidate or lisdexamfetamine are necessary .
[ ] see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) Figure 1 : Impact of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of Intuniv [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Impact of Intuniv on the Pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of Other Drugs [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) : Coadministration increases guanfacine exposure .
Guanfacine dose should be limited to no more than 2 mg / day .
When discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors , guanfacine dose should be doubled based on patient tolerability .
The maximum dose should not exceed 4 mg / day ( and ) .
2 . 77 • Strong CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) : Coadministration decreases guanfacine exposure .
Guanfacine dose may be titrated up to 8 mg / day .
When discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers , guanfacine dose should be decreased by half in 1 - 2 weeks based on patient tolerability .
The maximum dose should not exceed 4 mg / day ( and ) .
2 . 77 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic or Renal Impairment : dose reduction may be required in patients with clinically significant impairment of hepatic or renal function ( ) .
8 . 6 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of INTUNIV in pregnant women .
No fetal harm was observed in rats and rabbits with administration of guanfacine at 6 and 4 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Animal data Reproduction studies conducted in rats have shown that guanfacine crosses the placenta .
However , administration of guanfacine to rats and rabbits at 6 and 4 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose of 4 mg / day on a mg / m basis resulted in no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Higher doses ( 20 times the maximum recommended human dose in both rabbits and rats ) were associated with reduced fetal survival and maternal toxicity .
2 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether guanfacine is excreted in human milk ; however , guanfacine is excreted in rat milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when INTUNIV is administered to a nursing woman .
Observe human milk - fed infants for sedation and somnolence .
® 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of INTUNIV in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age have not been established .
® Animal Data In studies in juvenile rats , guanfacine alone produced a slight delay in sexual maturation in males and females at 2 - 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
Guanfacine in combination with methylphenidate produced a slight delay in sexual maturation and decreased growth as measured by a decrease in bone length in males at a dose of guanfacine comparable to the MRHD and a dose of methylphenidate approximately 4 times the MRHD .
In a study where juvenile rats were treated with guanfacine alone from 7 to 59 days of age , development was delayed as indicated by a slight delay in sexual maturation and decreased body weight gain in males at 2 mg / kg / day and in females at 3 mg / kg / day .
The No Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) for delayed sexual maturation was 1 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to the MRHD of 4 mg / day , on a mg / m basis .
The effects on fertility were not evaluated in this study .
2 In a study where juvenile rats were treated with guanfacine in combination with methylphenidate from 7 to 59 days of age , a decrease in ulna bone length and a slight delay in sexual maturation were observed in males given 1 mg / kg / day of guanfacine in combination with 50 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate .
The NOAELs for these findings were 0 . 3 mg / kg of guanfacine in combination with 16 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate , which are equivalent to 0 . 3 and 1 . 4 times the MRHD of 4 mg / day and 54 mg / day for guanfacine and methylphenidate , respectively , on a mg / m basis .
These findings were not observed with guanfacine alone at 1 mg / kg / day or methylphenidate alone at 50 mg / kg / day .
2 8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and efficacy of INTUNIV in geriatric patients have not been established .
® 8 . 6 Use in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment Renal Impairment The impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of guanfacine in children was not assessed .
In adult patients with impaired renal function , the cumulative urinary excretion of guanfacine and the renal clearance diminished as renal function decreased .
In patients on hemodialysis , the dialysis clearance was about 15 % of the total clearance .
The low dialysis clearance suggests that the hepatic elimination ( metabolism ) increases as renal function decreases .
It may be necessary to adjust the dose in patients with significant impairment of renal function .
Hepatic Impairment The impact of hepatic impairment on PK of guanfacine in children was not assessed .
Guanfacine in adults is cleared both by the liver and the kidney , and approximately 50 % of the clearance of guanfacine is hepatic .
It may be necessary to adjust the dose in patients with significant impairment of hepatic function .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance INTUNIV is not a controlled substance and has no known potential for abuse or dependence .
® 10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Post - marketing reports of guanfacine overdosage indicate that hypotension , drowsiness , lethargy , and bradycardia have been observed following overdose .
Initial hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension .
Similar symptoms have been described in voluntary reports to the American Association of Poison Control Center ’ s National Poison Data System .
Miosis of the pupils may be noted on examination No fatal overdoses of guanfacine have been reported in published literature .
.
Treatment Consult a Certified Poison Control Center by calling 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for up to date guidance and advice .
Management of INTUNIV overdose should include monitoring for and the treatment of initial hypertension , if that occurs , as well as hypotension , bradycardia , lethargy and respiratory depression .
Children and adolescents who develop lethargy should be observed for the development of more serious toxicity including coma , bradycardia and hypotension for up to 24 hours , due to the possibility of delayed onset hypotension .
® 11 DESCRIPTION INTUNIV is a once - daily , extended - release formulation of guanfacine hydrochloride ( HCl ) in a matrix tablet formulation for oral administration only .
The chemical designation is N - amidino - 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) acetamide monohydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C H Cl N O · HCl corresponding to a molecular weight of 282 . 55 .
The chemical structure is : ® 9923 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Guanfacine HCl is a white to off - white crystalline powder , sparingly soluble in water ( approximately 1 mg / mL ) and alcohol and slightly soluble in acetone .
The only organic solvent in which it has relatively high solubility is methanol ( > 30 mg / mL ) .
Each tablet contains guanfacine HCl equivalent to 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , or 4 mg of guanfacine base .
The tablets also contain hypromellose , methacrylic acid copolymer , lactose , povidone , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , fumaric acid , and glyceryl behenate .
In addition , the 3 mg and 4 mg tablets also contain green pigment blend PB - 1763 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Guanfacine is a central alpha - adrenergic receptor agonist .
Guanfacine is not a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mechanism of action of guanfacine in ADHD is not known .
2 A 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Guanfacine is a selective central alpha - adrenergic receptor agonist in that it has a 15 - 20 times higher affinity for this receptor subtype than for the alpha or alpha subtypes .
2A2B2C Guanfacine is a known antihypertensive agent .
By stimulating central alpha - adrenergic receptors , guanfacine reduces sympathetic nerve impulses from the vasomotor center to the heart and blood vessels .
This results in a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance and a reduction in heart rate .
2 A Effects on Height , Weight , and Body Mass Index ( BMI ) Patients taking INTUNIV demonstrated similar growth compared to normative data .
Patients taking INTUNIV had a mean increase in weight of 0 . 5 kg ( 1 lb ) compared to those receiving placebo over a comparative treatment period .
Patients receiving INTUNIV for at least 12 months in open - label studies gained an average of 8 kg ( 17 lbs ) in weight and 8 cm ( 3 in ) in height .
The height , weight , and BMI percentile remained stable in patients at 12 months in the long - term studies compared to when they began receiving INTUNIV .
®®®® Effect on ECG The effect of two dose levels of immediate - release guanfacine ( 4 mg and 8 mg ) on the QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled , cross - over study in healthy adults .
A dose - dependent decrease in heart rate was observed during the first 12 hours , at time of maximal concentrations .
The mean change in heart rate was - 13 bpm at 4 mg and - 22 bpm at 8 mg .
An apparent increase in mean QTc was observed for both doses .
However , guanfacine does not appear to interfere with cardiac repolarization of the form associated with pro - arrhythmic drugs .
This finding has no known clinical relevance .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Distribution Guanfacine is readily absorbed and approximately 70 % bound to plasma proteins independent of drug concentration .
After oral administration of INTUNIV the time to peak plasma concentration is approximately 5 hours in children and adolescents with ADHD .
® Immediate - release guanfacine and INTUNIV have different pharmacokinetic characteristics ; dose substitution on a milligram for milligram basis will result in differences in exposure .
® A comparison across studies suggests that the C is 60 % lower and AUC 43 % lower , respectively , for INTUNIV compared to immediate - release guanfacine .
Therefore , the relative bioavailability of INTUNIV to immediate - release guanfacine is 58 % .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters in adults following the administration of INTUNIV 1 mg once daily and immediate - release guanfacine 1 mg once daily are summarized in Table 5 .
max0 - ∞®®® Table 5 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Adults Parameter INTUNIV ® 1 mg once daily ( n = 52 ) Immediate - release guanfacine 1 mg once daily ( n = 12 ) C ( ng / mL ) max 1 . 0 ± 0 . 3 2 . 5 ± 0 . 6 AUC ( ng . h / mL ) 0 - ∞ 32 ± 9 56 ± 15 t ( h ) max 6 . 0 ( 4 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) 3 . 0 ( 1 . 5 - 4 . 0 ) t ( h ) 1 / 2 18 ± 4 16 ± 3 Note : Values are mean + / - SD , except for t which is median ( range ) max Exposure to guanfacine was higher in children ( ages 6 - 12 ) compared to adolescents ( ages 13 - 17 ) and adults .
After oral administration of multiple doses of INTUNIV 4 mg , the C was 10 ng / mL compared to 7 ng / mL and the AUC was 162 ng h / mL compared to 116 ng h / mL in children ( ages 6 - 12 ) and adolescents ( ages 13 - 17 ) , respectively .
These differences are probably attributable to the lower body weight of children compared to adolescents and adults .
® max The pharmacokinetics were affected by intake of food when a single dose of INTUNIV 4 mg was administered with a high - fat breakfast .
The mean exposure increased ( C ~ 75 % and AUC ~ 40 % ) compared to dosing in a fasted state .
® max Dose Proportionality Following administration of INTUNIV in single doses of 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg to adults , C and AUC of guanfacine were proportional to dose .
® max0 - ∞ Metabolism and Elimination In vitro studies with human liver microsomes and recombinant CYP ’ s demonstrated that guanfacine was primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 .
In pooled human hepatic microsomes , guanfacine did not inhibit the activities of the major cytochrome P450 isoenzymes ( CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 / 5 ) .
Guanfacine is a substrate of CYP3A4 / 5 and exposure is affected by CYP3A4 / 5 inducers / inhibitors .
Renal and Hepatic Impairment The impact of renal impairment on PK of guanfacine in children was not assessed .
[ ] see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenic effect of guanfacine was observed in studies of 78 weeks in mice or 102 weeks in rats at doses up to 6 - 7 times the maximum recommended human dose of 4 mg / day on a mg / m basis .
2 Mutagenesis Guanfacine was not genotoxic in a variety of test models , including the Ames test and an chromosomal aberration test ; however , a marginal increase in numerical aberrations ( polyploidy ) was observed in the latter study .
in vitro Impairment of Fertility No adverse effects were observed in fertility studies in male and female rats at doses up to 30 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m basis .
2 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Safety and Efficacy Studies The efficacy of INTUNIV in the treatment of ADHD was established in 3 placebo - controlled monotherapy trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 4 ) and in 1 placebo - controlled adjunctive trial with psychostimulants ( Study 3 ) in pediatric population .
Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 were conducted in children and adolescents ages 6 - 17 and Study 4 was conducted in children ages 6 - 12 years .
® Studies 1 and 2 : Fixed - dose INTUNIV Monotherapy ® Study 1 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , fixed dose study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing with INTUNIV ( 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 5 weeks ( n = 345 ) .
Study 2 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , fixed - dose study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing with INTUNIV ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 6 weeks ( n = 324 ) .
In both studies , randomized subjects in 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg dose groups were titrated to their target fixed dose , and continued on the same dose until a dose tapering phase started The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was assigned only to patients less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) .
Patients who weighed less than 25 kg ( 55 lbs ) were not included in either study .
®® Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a once weekly basis using the clinician administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline to endpoint in ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week for which a valid score was obtained prior to dose tapering ( up to Week 5 in Study 1 and up to Week 6 in Study 2 ) .
The mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for INTUNIV compared to placebo for Studies 1 and 2 .
Placebo - adjusted changes from baseline were statistically significant for each of the 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg INTUNIV randomized treatment groups in both studies , as well as the 1 mg INTUNIV treatment group ( for patients 55 - 110 lbs ) that was included only in Study 2 ( see Table 6 ) .
®®® Dose - responsive efficacy was evident , particularly when data were examined on a weight - adjusted ( mg / kg ) basis .
When evaluated over the dose range of 0 . 01 - 0 . 17 mg / kg / day , clinically relevant improvements were observed beginning at doses in the range 0 . 05 - 0 . 08 mg / kg / day .
Doses up to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day were shown to provide additional benefit .
Controlled , monotherapy long - term efficacy studies ( > 9 weeks ) have not been conducted .
In the monotherapy trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) , subgroup analyses were performed to identify any differences in response based on gender or age ( 6 - 12 vs . 13 - 17 ) .
Analyses of the primary outcome did not suggest any differential responsiveness on the basis of gender .
Analyses by age revealed a statistically significant treatment effect only in the 6 - 12 age subgroup .
Due to the relatively small proportion of adolescent patients ( ages 13 - 17 ) enrolled into these studies ( approximately 25 % ) , these data may not be sufficient to demonstrate efficacy in the adolescent patients .
In these studies , patients were randomized to a fixed dose of INTUNIV rather than optimized by body weight .
Therefore , some adolescent patients were randomized to a dose that might have resulted in relatively lower plasma guanfacine concentrations compared to the younger patients .
Over half ( 55 % ) of the adolescent patients received doses of 0 . 01 - 0 . 04 mg / kg .
In studies in which systematic pharmacokinetic data were obtained , there was a strong inverse correlation between body weight and plasma guanfacine concentrations .
® Table 6 : Fixed dose Studies Study ( Age Range ) Primary Efficacy Measure Treatment Group Placebo Intuniv ® 1 mg Intuniv ® 2 mg Intuniv ® 3 mg Intuniv ® 4 mg ( 6 – 17 years ) 1 Mean Baseline ( SD ) 38 . 1 ( 9 . 34 ) -- 36 . 1 ( 9 . 99 ) 36 . 8 ( 8 . 72 ) 38 . 4 ( 9 . 21 ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 8 . 5 ( 1 . 42 ) -- - 15 . 9 ( 1 . 37 ) - 16 . 0 ( 1 . 38 ) - 18 . 5 ( 1 . 39 ) LS Mean Difference from Placebo ( 95 % CI ) -- -- - 7 . 4 ( - 11 . 3 , - 3 . 5 ) a - 7 . 5 ( - 11 . 4 , - 3 . 6 ) a - 10 . 0 ( - 13 . 9 , - 6 . 1 ) a ( 6 – 17 years ) 2 Mean Baseline ( SD ) 39 . 3 ( 8 . 85 ) 41 . 7 ( 7 . 81 ) 39 . 9 ( 8 . 74 ) 39 . 1 ( 9 . 22 ) 40 . 6 ( 8 . 57 ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 12 . 7 ( 1 . 60 ) - 19 . 4 ( 1 . 69 ) - 18 . 1 ( 1 . 60 ) - 20 . 0 ( 1 . 64 ) - 20 . 6 ( 1 . 60 ) LS Mean Difference from Placebo ( 95 % CI ) -- - 6 . 8 ( - 11 . 3 , - 2 . 2 ) a - 5 . 4 ( - 9 . 9 , - 0 . 9 ) a - 7 . 3 ( - 11 . 8 , - 2 . 8 ) a - 7 . 9 ( - 12 . 3 , - 3 . 4 ) a LS Mean : least - square mean ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; 95 % CI ( unadjusted ) Doses were shown to be statistically significantly superior to placebo .
a Study 3 : Flexible - dose INTUNIV as Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulants ® Study 3 was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , dose - optimization study , in which efficacy of once daily optimized dosing ( morning or evening ) with INTUNIV ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) , when co - administered with psychostimulants , was evaluated for 8 weeks , in children and adolescents aged 6 - 17 years with a diagnosis of ADHD , with a sub - optimal response to stimulants ( n = 455 ) .
Subjects were started at the 1 mg INTUNIV dose level and were titrated weekly over a 5 - week dose - optimization period to an optimal INTUNIV dose not to exceed 4 mg / day based on tolerability and clinical response .
The dose was then maintained for a 3 - week dose maintenance period before entry to 1 week of dose tapering .
Subjects took INTUNIV either in the morning or the evening while maintaining their current dose of psychostimulant treatment given each morning .
Allowable psychostimulants in the study were ADDERALL XR , VYVANSE , CONCERTA , FOCALIN XR , RITALIN LA , METADATE CD or FDA - approved generic equivalents .
®®®®®®®®®® Symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a weekly basis by clinicians using the ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline to endpoint in ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week prior to dose tapering for which a valid score was obtained ( up to Week 8 ) .
Mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for INTUNIV given in combination with a psychostimulant compared to placebo given with a psychostimulant for Study 3 , for both morning and evening INTUNIV dosing ( see Table 7 ) .
Nearly two - thirds ( 64 . 2 % ) of subjects reached optimal doses in the 0 . 05 - 0 . 12 mg / kg / day range .
®® Study 4 : Flexible - dose INTUNIV Monotherapy ® Study 4 was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , dose - optimization study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing ( morning or evening ) with INTUNIV ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 8 weeks in children aged 6 - 12 years ( n = 340 ) .
® Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a once weekly basis using the clinician administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline score at endpoint on the ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week for which a valid score was obtained prior to dose tapering ( up to Week 8 ) .
Mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for INTUNIV compared to placebo in both AM and PM dosing groups of INTUNIV ( see Table 7 ) .
®® Table 7 : Flexible - Dose studies Study ( Age Range ) Treatment Group Placebo Intuniv ® 1 mg – 4 mg AM PM ( 6 – 17 years ) 3 a Mean Baseline ( SD ) 37 . 7 ( 7 . 75 ) 37 . 6 ( 8 . 13 ) 37 . 0 ( 7 . 65 ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 15 . 9 ( 0 . 96 ) - 20 . 3 ( 0 . 97 ) - 21 . 2 ( 0 . 97 ) LS Mean Difference from Placebo ( 95 % CI ) -- - 4 . 5 ( - 7 . 5 , - 1 . 4 ) b - 5 . 3 ( - 8 . 3 , - 2 . 3 ) b ( 6 – 12 years ) 4 Mean Baseline ( SD ) 42 . 9 ( 6 . 21 ) 41 . 7 ( 6 . 39 ) 41 . 6 ( 6 . 66 ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 10 . 6 ( 1 . 20 ) - 20 . 0 ( 1 . 23 ) - 20 . 4 ( 1 . 19 ) LS Mean Difference from Placebo ( 95 % CI ) -- - 9 . 4 ( - 12 . 8 , - 6 . 0 ) b - 9 . 8 ( - 13 . 1 , - 6 . 4 ) b LS Mean : least - square mean ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; 95 % CI ( unadjusted ) Treatment was given in combination with a psychostimulant .
Doses were shown to be statistically significantly superior to placebo .
a b 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 64725 - 0515 - 1 in a CONTAINER of 30 TABLET , EXTENDED RELEASES 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Dosing and Administration Instruct patients to swallow INTUNIV whole with water , milk or other liquid .
Patients should not take INTUNIV together with a high - fat meal , since this can raise blood levels of INTUNIV .
Instruct the parent or caregiver to supervise the child or adolescent taking INTUNIV and to keep the bottle of tablets out of reach of children .
® Tablets should not be crushed , chewed or broken prior to administration because this may increase the rate of release of the active drug .
®®® Instruct patients on how to properly taper the medication , if the physician decides to discontinue treatment .
[ ] .
see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) Adverse Reactions Advise patients that sedation can occur , particularly early in treatment or with dose increases .
Caution against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to treatment with INTUNIV Headache and abdominal pain can also occur .
If any of these symptoms persist , or other symptoms occur , the patient should be advised to discuss the symptoms with the physician .
® [ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated , which may potentially increase the risks of hypotension and syncope Advise patients to avoid use with alcohol .
[ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) Patient Information INTUNIV ( ® in - TOO - niv ) ( guanfacine ) Extended - Release Tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with INTUNIV before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
® This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is INTUNIV ?
® INTUNIV is a prescription medicine used to treat the symptoms of attention deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
® INTUNIV is not a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
® What should I tell my doctor before taking INTUNIV ?
® Before you take INTUNIV , tell your doctor if you : ® • have heart problems or a low heart rate • have fainted • have low blood pressure • have liver or kidney problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if INTUNIV will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
® • are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if INTUNIV passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby while taking INTUNIV .
®® Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
INTUNIV may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how INTUNIV works .
®® Especially tell your doctor if you take : • ketoconazole • medicines that can affect enzyme metabolism • high blood pressure medicine • sedatives • benzodiazepines • barbiturates • antipsychotics Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take INTUNIV ?
® • Take INTUNIV exactly as your doctor tells you .
® • Your doctor may change your dose .
Do not change your dose of INTUNIV without talking to your doctor .
® • Do not stop taking INTUNIV without talking to your doctor .
® • INTUNIV should be taken 1 time a day in the morning or in the evening , either alone or in combination with an ADHD stimulant medication that your doctor may prescribe .
Your doctor will tell you when to take INTUNIV and when to take your ADHD stimulant medication .
®® • INTUNIV should be swallowed whole with a small amount of water , milk , or other liquid .
® • Do not crush , chew , or break INTUNIV .
Tell your doctor if you can not swallow INTUNIV whole .
®® • Do not take INTUNIV with a high - fat meal .
® • Your doctor will check your blood pressure and heart rate while you take INTUNIV .
® • If you take too much INTUNIV , call your local Poison Control Center or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
® What should I avoid while taking INTUNIV ?
® • Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how INTUNIV affects you .
INTUNIV can slow your thinking and motor skills .
®® • Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking INTUNIV until you talk with your doctor .
INTUNIV taken with alcohol or medicines that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
®® What are the possible side effects of INTUNIV ?
® INTUNIV may cause serious side effects including : ® • low blood pressure • low heart rate • fainting • sleepiness Get medical help right away , if you have any of the symptoms listed above .
The most common side effects of INTUNIV include : ® • sleepiness • tiredness • trouble sleeping • low blood pressure • nausea • stomach pain • dizziness Tell the doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of INTUNIV .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
® Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store INTUNIV ?
® • Store INTUNIV between 59 F to 86 F ( 15 C to 30 C ) ® oooo Keep INTUNIV and all medicines out of the reach of children .
® General Information about INTUNIV ® Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use INTUNIV for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give INTUNIV to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
®® This leaflet summarizes the most important information about INTUNIV .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about INTUNIV that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to ®® www . INTUNIV . comor call 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 .
What are the ingredients in INTUNIV ?
® guanfacine hydrochloride Active ingredient : hypromellose , methacrylic acid copolymer , lactose , povidone , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , fumaric acid , and glycerol behenate .
In addition , the 3 mg and 4 mg tablets also contain green pigment blend PB - 1763 .
Inactive ingredients : Manufactured for Shire US Inc . , Wayne , PA 19087 .
INTUNIV is a registered trademark of Shire LLC .
© 2013 Shire US Inc .
This product is covered by US patents including 6 , 287 , 599 ; 6 , 811 , 794 .
Version : 08 2013 ® INTUNIV ( GUANFACINE ) TABLET , EXTENDED RELEASE INTUNIV ( GUANFACINE ) KIT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
