Active Ingredient ( in each lozenge ) Purpose Menthol 5 mg ........ Antitussive ( cough suppressant ) / oral anesthetic JAKEMANS ® Boston ENGLAND Est 1907 Throat & Chest ™ Peppermint Flavored Menthol Cough Suppressant Oral Anesthetic Made in Boston , England , for over 100 years using the finest natural ingredients .
30 Lozenges Jakemans famous and original Throat & Chest Lozenges are made with the finest natural ingredients , carefully blended with soothing menthol to obtain a unique mouth watering and refreshing taste .
Once tasted they will be your favorite soothing lozenge !
Manufactured by : Jakemans ( Confectioners ) Ltd .
Boston PE20 2 JA , United Kingdom US Toll Free : 1 - 866 - 205 - 1185 www . jakemans . us Keep out of reach of children .
Uses Temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation occurring with the common cold or inhaled irritants .
• occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , and sore throat .
Warnings Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe , persists more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema cough that occurs with excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions • adults and children 2 years and over : dissolve lozenge slowly in the mouth .
Repeat every 2 hours as needed or as directed by a doctor .
• children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients glucose syrup , peppermint oil ( flavoring ) , sugar , water .
Questions & Comments ?
To report serious adverse events , call : 1 - 866 - 205 - 1185 No added color [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
