Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritant • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use • if you are taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certan drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
• for children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not use more than directed .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • cough comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device • keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • shake well before using • adult and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL in dosing cup provided avery 4 hours • Children under 12 years of age do not use Other information • each 20 mL contains : sodium 17 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD & C blue # 1 FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Principal Display Panel Compare to active ingredients in Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Severe Congestion & Cough * maximum strength fast mucus relief severe congestion and cough dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg ( cough suppressant ) guaifenesin 400 mg ( expectorant ) phenylephrine HCI 10 mg ( nasal decongestant ) controls cough relieves nasal and chest congestion thins and loosens mucus AGES 12 + YEARS * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Severe Congestion & Cough .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Dist .
by Target Corp .
Minneapolis , MN 55403 Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
