1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is a combination of vitamins indicated for the prevention of vitamin deficiency in pediatric patients up to 11 years of age receiving parenteral nutrition .
The physician should not await the development of clinical signs of vitamin deficiency before initiating vitamin therapy .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is a combination of vitamins indicated for the prevention of vitamin deficiency in pediatric patients up to 11 years of age receiving parenteral nutrition ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is a combination product that contains the following vitamins : ascorbic acid , vitamin A , vitamin D , thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , dexpanthenol , vitamin E , vitamin K1 , folic acid , biotin , and vitamin B12 ( 2 . 1 ) • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution ( 2 . 1 ) • • Recommended daily dosage is based on patient ’ s actual weight ( 2 . 2 ) : • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose : • oWeight less than 1 kg : 1 . 2 mL of Vial 1 and 0 . 3 mL of Vial 2 • oWeight 1 kg to less than 3 kg : 2 . 6 mL of Vial 1 and 0 . 65 mL Vial 2 • oWeight 3 kg or greater : 4 mL of Vial 1 and 1 mL of Vial 2 • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package : • oWeight less than 1 kg : 1 . 5 mL of combined content of Vials 1 and 2 • oWeight 1 kg to less than 3 kg : 3 . 25 mL of combined content of Vials 1 and 2 • oWeight 3 kg or greater : 5 mL of combined content of Vials 1 and 2 .
• • Supplemental vitamin A may be required for low - birth weight infants ( 2 . 2 ) • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is supplied as a single dose and as a pharmacy bulk package : • oSingle Dose consists of two vials labeled Vial 1 and Vial 2 .
Add one daily dose of Vial 1 and one daily dose of Vial 2 directly to at least 100 mL of intravenous dextrose or saline solution prior to intravenous use ( 2 . 3 ) • oPharmacy Bulk Package consists of two vials labeled Vial 1 and Vial 2 .
Transfer contents of Vial 2 to contents of Vial 1 .
Then , take 1 . 5 mL , 3 . 25 mL , or 5 mL from mixture and add to at least 100 mL of intravenous dextrose or saline solution prior to intravenous use ( 2 . 3 ) • • After dilution in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate resulting solution unless used immediately .
Use solution within 24 hours after dilution ( 2 . 3 ) • • Monitor blood vitamin concentrations ( 2 . 4 ) • • See Full Prescribing Information for drug incompatibilities ( 2 . 5 ) .
2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is a combination product that contains the following vitamins : ascorbic acid , vitamin A , vitamin D , thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , dexpanthenol , vitamin E , vitamin K1 , folic acid , biotin , and vitamin B12 .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is supplied as a single dose or as a pharmacy bulk package for intravenous use intended for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution : • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose consists of two vials .
A weightbased volume from each vial must be added directly to dextrose or saline solution prior to intravenous administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
• • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package consists of two pharmacy bulk vials which must be mixed prior to use .
The mixed solution will provide multiple daily doses which must be diluted prior to intravenous administration .
Pharmacy bulk package of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Information The recommended daily dosage volume is based on the patient ' s actual weight : less than 1 kg , 1 kg to less than 3 kg , and 3 kg or greater .
Patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or with increased vitamin requirements may need multiple daily dosages as indicated or additional doses of individual vitamins .
Supplemental vitamin A may be required for low - birth weight infants .
Additional daily dosages of Vitamin E in infants are not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose ( see Table 1 ) : One daily dose of Vial 1 ( 1 . 2 mL , 2 . 6 mL or 4 mL ) and one daily dose of Vial 2 ( 0 . 3 mL , 0 . 65 mL or 1 mL ) based on the patient ’ s weight are added directly to a specified volume of an intravenous fluid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Recommended Weight - Based Dosage of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose Less than 1 kg 1 kg to less than 3 kg 3 kg or greater Daily Dosage Volume – Vial 1 1 . 2 mL 2 . 6 mL 4 mL Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) 24 mg 52 mg 80 mg Vitamin A ( as palmitate ) 690 IU ( equals 0 . 2 mg ) 1495 IU ( equals 0 . 5 mg ) 2 , 300 IU ( equals 0 . 7 mg ) Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) 120 IU ( equals 3 mcg ) 260 IU ( equals 7 mcg ) 400 IU ( equals 10 mcg ) Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as the hydrochloride ) 0 . 4 mg 0 . 8 mg 1 . 2 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) ( as riboflavin 5 - phosphate sodium ) 0 . 4 mg 0 . 9 mg 1 . 4 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( Vitamin B6 ) 0 . 3 mg 0 . 7 mg 1 mg Niacinamide 5 . 1 mg 11 . 1 mg 17 mg Dexpanthenol ( as d - pantothenyl alcohol ) 1 . 5 mg 3 . 3 mg 5 mg Vitamin E ( dl - α - tocopheryl acetate ) 2 . 1 IU ( equals 2 mg ) 4 . 6 IU ( equals 5 mg ) 7 IU ( equals 7 mg ) Vitamin K1 0 . 1 mg 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg Daily Dosage Volume – Vial 2 0 . 3 mL 0 . 65 mL 1 mL Folic acid 42 mcg 91 mcg 140 mcg Biotin 6 mcg 13 mcg 20 mcg Vitamin B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) 0 . 3 mcg 0 . 7 mcg 1 mcg INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package ( see Table 2 ) : The recommended daily dosage volume of combined content of vials 1 and 2 ( 1 . 5 mL , 3 . 25 mL or 5 mL ) is based on the patient ’ s weight and then added directly to the specific volume of an intravenous fluid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Table 2 : Recommended Weight - Based Dosage of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package Less than 1 kg 1 kg to less than 3 kg 3 kg or greater Daily Dosage Volume ( combined contents of Vial 1 and Vial 2 ) 1 . 5 mL 3 . 25 mL 5 mL Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) 24 mg 52 mg 80 mg Vitamin A ( as palmitate ) 690 IU ( equals 0 . 2 mg ) 1495 IU ( equals 0 . 5 mg ) 2 , 300 IU ( equals 0 . 7 mg ) Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) 120 IU ( equals 3 mcg ) 260 IU ( equals 7 mcg ) 400 IU ( equals 10 mcg ) Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as the hydrochloride ) 0 . 4 mg 0 . 8 mg 1 . 2 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) ( as riboflavin 5 - phosphate sodium ) 0 . 4 mg 0 . 9 mg 1 . 4 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( Vitamin B6 ) 0 . 3 mg 0 . 7 mg 1 mg Niacinamide 5 . 1 mg 11 . 1 mg 17 mg Dexpanthenol ( as d - pantothenyl alcohol ) 1 . 5 mg 3 . 3 mg 5 mg Vitamin E ( dl - α - tocopheryl acetate ) 2 . 1 IU ( equals 2 mg ) 4 . 6 IU ( equals 5 mg ) 7 IU ( equals 7 mg ) Vitamin K1 0 . 1 mg 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg Folic acid 42 mcg 91 mcg 140 mcg Biotin 6 mcg 13 mcg 20 mcg Vitamin B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) 0 . 3 mcg 0 . 7 mcg 1 mcg 2 . 3 Preparation and Administration Instructions Do not administer INFUVITE PEDIATRIC as a direct , undiluted intravenous injection as it may cause dizziness , faintness , and possible tissue irritation .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose : • • Use only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• Add one weight - based dose of Vial 1 ( 1 . 2 mL , 2 . 6 mL or 4 mL ) and one weight - based dose of Vial 2 ( 0 . 3 mL , 0 . 65 mL or 1 mL ) directly to at least 100 mL of intravenous dextrose or saline solution .
• • Discard unused portion .
• • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• • After INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is diluted in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate the resulting solution unless it is to be used immediately , and use the solution within 24 hours after dilution .
• • Minimize exposure to light because some of the vitamins in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , particularly A , D and riboflavin , are light sensitive .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package : • • Use only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• • Transfer the contents of Vial 2 ( 10 mL of solution ) into the contents of Vial 1 ( 40 mL of solution ) .
The mixed solution ( 50 mL ) will provide thirty - three 1 . 5 mL single doses , fifteen 3 . 25 mL single doses or ten 5 mL single doses .
• • Each bulk vial closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
• • Once the closure system has been penetrated , complete dispensing from the pharmacy bulk vial should be completed within 4 hours .
• • The mixed solution may be refrigerated and stored for up to 4 hours .
• • Discard unused portion .
• • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• • Add one dose directly to at least 100 mL of intravenous dextrose or saline solution for each patient .
• • After INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is diluted in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate the resulting solution unless it is to be used immediately , and use the solution within 24 hours after dilution .
• • Minimize exposure to light because some of the vitamins in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , particularly A , D and riboflavin , are light sensitive .
2 . 4 Monitoring Vitamin Blood Levels Blood vitamin concentrations should be monitored to ensure maintenance of adequate levels , particularly in patients receiving parenteral multivitamins as the only source of vitamins for long periods of time .
2 . 5 Drug Incompatibilities • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is not physically compatible with moderately alkaline solutions such as a sodium bicarbonate solution and other alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide sodium , aminophylline , ampicillin sodium , tetracycline HCl and chlorothiazide sodium .
• • Folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate .
• • Vitamin A and thiamine in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may react with bisulfite solutions such as sodium bisulfite or vitamin K bisulfite .
• • Do not add INFUVITE PEDIATRIC directly to intravenous fat emulsions .
• • Consult appropriate references for additional listings of physical and chemical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion when needed .
If incompatibilities are identified , avoid admixture or Y - site administration with vitamin solutions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Single Dose is an injection consisting of two single - dose vials labeled Vial 1 ( 4 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 1 mL ) .
For the vitamin strengths [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Description ( 11 ) ] .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC Pharmacy Bulk Package is an injection consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 40 mL Fill in 50 mL Vial ) and Vial 2 ( 10 mL ) .
The mixed solution ( 50 mL ) will provide thirty - three 1 . 5 mL single doses , fifteen 3 . 25 mL single doses or ten 5 mL single doses .
For the vitamin strengths [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Description ( 11 ) ] .
• • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC single dose is an injection consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 4 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 1 mL ) ( 3 ) • • INFUVITE PEDIATRIC pharmacy bulk package is an injection consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 50 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 10 mL ) ( 3 ) • • See Full Prescribing Information for vitamin strengths ( 11 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is contraindicated in patients who have : • • An existing hypervitaminosis , or • • A history of hypersensitivity to any vitamins or excipients contained in this formulation .
• • Hypersensitivity to any of vitamins or excipients ( 4 ) • • Existing hypervitaminosis ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Risk of Aluminum Toxicity : For at risk patients ( renal failure or those with prolonged therapy ) , consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels ( 5 . 1 ) • • Allergic Reactions : To thiamine may occur ( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypervitaminosis A : Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk ( 5 . 3 ) • • Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin : Monitor INR ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis : Avoid during testing for this disorder ( 5 . 5 ) • • Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses : Monitor blood vitamin concentrations ( 5 . 6 ) • • False Negative Urine Glucose Tests : Due to vitamin C ( 5 . 7 ) • • Risk of Vitamin E Toxicity : Additional oral and parenteral vitamin E may result in elevated vitamin E blood concentrations in infants ( 5 . 8 ) • • Low Vitamin A Levels : Monitor vitamin A levels ( 5 . 9 ) • • Risk of E - Ferol Syndrome : Due to polysorbates ( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
To prevent aluminum toxicity periodically monitor aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
5 . 2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria , shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine , which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine .
No fatal anaphylaxis associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported .
5 . 3 .
Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A , manifested by nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1 . 5 mg / day retinol and in patients with liver disease .
Therefore , supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A , an ingredient found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , should be undertaken with caution [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically .
5 . 4 Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains Vitamin K which may decrease the anticoagulant action of warfarin .
In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC monitor blood levels of prothrombin / INR to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted .
5 . 5 Interference with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains folic acid and cyanocobalamin which can mask serum deficiencies of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in patients with megaloblastic anemia .
Avoid the use of INFUVITE PEDIATRICS in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies .
5 . 6 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may not correct long - standing specific vitamin deficiencies .
The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid .
Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose results .
5 . 8 Vitamin E Overdose in Infants Receiving Additional Vitamin E Additional vitamin E supplementations of patients receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may result in elevated blood concentrations of vitamin E and potential vitamin E toxicity in infants .
Avoid additional oral or parental doses of vitamin E in infants .
Daily dose of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains adequate concentrations of vitamin E required to achieve normal blood levels of vitamin E . 5 . 9 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Lower vitamin A concentrations may occur after administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC due to the adherence of Vitamin A to plastic .
Monitor blood vitamin A concentrations periodically .
Additional administration of therapeutic doses of vitamin A may be required , especially in low - birth weight infants .
5 . 10 Risk of E - Ferol Syndrome in Low - Birth Weight Infants E - Ferol syndrome manifested by thrombocytopenia , renal dysfunction , hepatomegaly , cholestasis , ascites , hypotension and metabolic acidosis has been reported in low - birth weight infants following administration of polysorbates which are found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
No E - Ferol syndrome associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling .
• • Allergic reactions to thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Dermatologic : rash , erythema , pruritis • CNS : headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety • Ophthalmic : diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis , rash , erythema , pruritis , headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety , diplopia ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effect of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC on other drugs : • • Antibiotics : Thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin , kanamycin , streptomycin , doxycycline , and lincomycin ( 7 . 1 ) • • Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin ( 7 . 1 ) • • Levodopa : Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease ( 7 . 1 ) • • Phenytoin : Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase risk of seizure activity ( 7 . 1 ) • • Methotrexate : Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate ( 7 . 1 ) Effects of other drugs on INFUVITE PEDIATRIC : • • Hydralazine , Isoniazid : Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • Phenytoin : May decrease folic acid concentrations ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interactions Affecting Co - administered Drugs A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported .
The following are examples of these types of interactions : • Warfarin : Vitamin K , a component of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin .
In patients who are co - administered warfarin and INFUVITE PEDIATRIC , blood levels of prothrombin / INR should be monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Antibiotics : Thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin , kanamycin , streptomycin , doxycycline , and lincomycin .
• Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro , thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced .
• Levodopa : Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa ( decrease blood levels of levodopa ) and decrease its efficacy .
• Phenytoin : Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity .
• Methotrexate : Folic acid may decrease a patient ’ s response to methotrexate therapy .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels • Hydralazine , Isoniazid : • Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements .
• Phenytoin : • Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Renal Impairment : Monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus and vitamin A levels ( 8 . 6 ) • • Hepatic Impairment : Monitor vitamin A levels ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has not been studied in pregnant women .
Pregnant women should follow the U . S . recommended daily allowances for pregnancy because their vitamin requirements may exceed those of non - pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Lactating women may have vitamin requirements that exceed those of non - lactating women .
Caution should be exercised when INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is administered to nursing mothers .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use INFUVITE PEDIATRIC is approved for the prevention of vitamin deficiency in pediatric patients up to 11 years old receiving parenteral nutrition .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has not been studied in pediatric patients older than 11 years .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains aluminum that may be toxic for premature neonates .
Aluminum levels should be monitored periodically during administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC to premature neonates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Additional vitamin E supplementations of infants receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may result in elevated blood concentrations of vitamin E and potential vitamin E toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
E - Ferol syndrome has been reported in low - birth weight infants following administration of polysorbates which are found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
No E - Ferol syndrome associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
Monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus and vitamin A levels in patients with renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has not been studied in patients with liver impairment .
Monitor vitamin A levels in patients with liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of acute or chronic overdosage may be those of individual INFUVITE PEDIATRIC component toxicity .
There is no clinical experience with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) is a sterile product consisting of two vials provided as a single dose or as a pharmacy bulk package for intravenous use intended for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution : INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) supplied as single dose consists of : ( a ) Vial 1 ( 4 mL ) ; and ( b ) Vial 2 ( 1 mL ) .
Vial 1 will provide one daily dose of 1 . 2 mL , 2 . 6 mL or 4 mL and Vial 2 will provide one daily dose of 0 . 3 mL , 0 . 65 mL or 1 mL [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) supplied as pharmacy bulk package consists of : ( a ) Vial 1 ( 40 mL Fill in 50 mL Vial ) ; and ( b ) Vial 2 ( 10 mL ) .
The mixed solution will provide many single doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Each 4 mL of Vial 1 contains 10 vitamins and each 1 mL of Vial 2 contains 3 vitamins ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : INGREDIENTS IN INFUVITE PEDIATRIC FORMULATION Vial 1 Active Ingredient Quantity per 4 mL Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) 80 mg Vitamin A * ( as palmitate ) 2 , 300 IU ( equals 0 . 7 mg ) Vitamin D3 * ( cholecalciferol ) 400 IU ( equals 10 mcg ) Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as the hydrochloride ) 1 . 2 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) ( as riboflavin 5 - phosphate sodium ) 1 . 4 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( Vitamin B6 ) 1 mg Niacinamide 17 mg Dexpanthenol ( as d - pantothenyl alcohol ) 5 mg Vitamin E * ( dl - α - tocopheryl acetate ) 7 IU ( equals 7 mg ) Vitamin K1 * 0 . 2 mg * Polysorbate 80 is used to water solubilize the oil - soluble vitamins A , D , E , and K . Inactive ingredients in 4 mL of Vial 1 : 50 mg polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment , and water for injection .
Vial 2 Active Ingredient Quantity per 1 mL Folic acid 140 mcg Biotin 20 mcg Vitamin B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) 1 mcg Inactive ingredients in 1 mL of Vial 2 : 75 mg mannitol , citric acid and / or sodium citrate for pH adjustment and water for injection .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) makes available a combination of oil - soluble and water - soluble vitamins in an aqueous solution , formulated for incorporation into intravenous solutions .
The liposoluble vitamins A , D , E , and K have been solubilized in an aqueous medium with polysorbate 80 , permitting intravenous administration of these vitamins .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains no more than 30 mcg / L of aluminum ( combined Vials 1 and 2 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies have not been performed with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied : INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) is supplied as follows : INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) Single Dose : • • NDC 54643 - 5646 - 1 - Boxes containing ten single dose vials – five each of Vial 1 ( 4 mL ) and five each of Vial 2 ( 1 mL ) , one Vial 1 plus one Vial 2 to be used for a single dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
INFUVITE PEDIATRIC ( multiple vitamins injection ) Pharmacy Bulk Package : • • NDC 54643 - 5647 - 0 - Boxes containing two vials – Vial 1 ( 40 mL Fill in 50 mL Vial ) and Vial 2 ( 10 mL ) .
Mixed contents of Vial 2 with Vial 1 provide thirty - three 1 . 5 mL single doses , fifteen 3 . 25 mL single doses or 10 single 5 mL doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Storage and Handling : Minimize exposure of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC to light because vitamins A , D and riboflavin are light sensitive .
Store under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct caregiver ( s ) and patients ( if age appropriate ) : • • To watch for signs of allergic reactions such as urticaria , shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema since hypersensitivity reactions may occur to any of the vitamins or excipients contained in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC .
• • To watch for and immediately report nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , blurred vision , especially if patients have renal impairment , as these may be signs of hypervitaminosis A . • • To report other adverse reactions that patients may experience such as rash , erythema , pruritus , headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety , and diplopia .
• • Patients on warfarin anticoagulant therapy will be monitored periodically with blood prothrombin / INR levels to determine if the dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted .
• • About the significance of periodic monitoring of blood vitamin concentrations to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing and the need to monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus , aluminum and vitamin A levels in patients with renal impairment .
• • That INFUVITE PEDIATRIC should be avoided in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies .
• • That vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) contained in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may cause false negative urine glucose results .
Manufactured by Sandoz Canada Inc .
145 Jules - Léger Street Boucherville , Qc , Canada , J4B 7K8 Distributed by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Clintec Nutrition Division Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in Canada ® INFUVITE is a registered trademark of Sandoz Canada Inc .
D46143533 03 - 2016 M Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2A9008 NDC 54643 - 5646 - 1 Baxter INFUVITE ® PEDiatric Multiple Vitamins Injection For intravenous infusion after dilution only .
STERILE Rx only Contains 5 each of Vial 1 ( 4 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 1 mL ) .
One vial of each to be used for a single dose .
Store under refrigeration , 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
