Active Ingredients Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses For the treatment of acne .
Helps keep skin clear of new acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads , and whiteheads .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Do not use if you • Have very sensitive skin .
• Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
When using this product • Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth .
• Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
• Skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop and ask a doctor If skin irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet skin with lukewarm water .
Using fingertips , apply a thin , even layer and massage over entire face for 90 seconds , avoiding all contact with eyes .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Use once daily and increase to twice daily as tolerated .
Wash hands after application to help avoid staining fabrics • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day • If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other Information Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
This product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 lsoparaffin , Jojoba Esters , Carbomer , Diethylhexyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Laureth - 7 , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Propanediol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Benzoate Questions 1 - 888 - 995 - 5656 Principal Display Panel - 125 mL Carton Label RODAN + FIELDS SPOTLESS DAILY ACNE WASH 1 125 mL / 4 . 2 Fl .
Oz .
U . S . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 125 mL Tube Label RODAN + FIELDS SPOTLESS DAILY ACNE WASH 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
