DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % is a sterile aqueous product that contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for specific uses ) .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % contains lidocaine hydrochloride which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , monohydrochloride and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % also contains hypromellose , and the resulting mixture maximizes contact with muscosa and provides lubrication for instrumentation .
The unused portion should be discarded after initial use .
Composition of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % : Each mL contains 20 mg of lidocaine HCl .
The formulation also contains methylparaben , propylparaben , hypromellose , and sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to adjust pH between 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of action : Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Onset of action : The onset of action is 3 - 5 minutes .
It is ineffective when applied to intact skin .
Hemodynamics : Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption varies depending upon concentration and total dose administered , the specific site of application and duration of exposure .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug may appear in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites mono - ethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 ug of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 mcg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 mcg / mL have been shown to be the threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % is indicated for prevention and control of pain in procedures involving the male and female urethra for topical treatment of painful urethritis , and as an anesthetic lubricant for endotracheal intubation ( oral and nasal ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % .
WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
When used for endotracheal tube lubrication , care should be taken to avoid introducing the product into the lumen of the tube .
Do not use the jelly to lubricate the endotracheal stylettes .
If allowed into the inner lumen , the jelly may dry on the inner surface leaving a residue which tends to clump with flexion , narrowing the lumen .
There have been rare reports in which this residue has caused the lumen to occlude ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
PRECAUTIONS General : The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug or its metabolites .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical status .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % should be used with caution in patients with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Information for Patients : Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache , rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
When topical anesthetics are used in the mouth , the patient should be aware that the production of topical anesthesia may impair swallowing and thus enhance the danger of aspiration .
For this reason , food should not be ingested for 60 minutes following use of local anesthetic preparations in the mouth or throat area .
This is particularly important in children because of their frequency of eating .
Numbness of the tongue or buccal mucosa may enhance the danger of unintentional biting trauma .
Food and chewing gum should be taken while the mouth or throat area is anesthetized .
Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache , rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Drug Interactions : Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics .
Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric acid , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic Agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants Phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine Carcinogenesis : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of lidocaine .
Mutagenesis : The mutagenic potential of lidocaine has been tested in the Ames Salmonella reverse mutation assay , an in vitro chromosome aberrations assay in human lymphocytes and in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
There was no indication of any mutagenic effect in these studies .
Impairment of Fertility : The effect of lidocaine on fertility was examined in the rat model .
Administration of 30 mg / kg , s . c . ( 180 mg / m ² ) to the mating pair did not product alterations in fertility or general reproductive performance of rats .
There are no studies that examine the effect of lidocaine on sperm parameters .
There was no evidence of altered fertility .
Use in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies for lidocaine have been performed in both rats and rabbits .
There was no evidence of harm to the fetus at subcutaneous doses of up to 50 mg / kg lidocaine ( 300 mg / m ² on a body surface area basis ) in the rat model .
In the rabbit model , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus at a dose of 5 mg / kg , s . c . ( 60 mg / m ² on a body surface area basis ) .
Treatment of rabbits with 25 mg / kg ( 300 mg / m ² ) produced evidence of maternal toxicity and evidence of delayed fetal development , including a non - significant decrease in fetal weight ( 7 % ) and an increase in minor skeletal anomalies ( skull and sternebral defect , reduced ossification of the phalanges ) .
The effect of lidocaine on post - natal development was examined in rats by treating pregnant female rats daily subcutaneously at doses 2 , 10 , and 50 mg / kg ( 12 , 60 , and 300 mg / m ² ) from day 15 of pregnancy and up to 20 days post partum .
No signs of adverse effects were seen either either in dams or in the pups up to and including the dose of 10 mg / kg ( 60 mg / m ² ) ; however , the number of surviving pups was reduced at 50 mg / kg ( 300 mg / m ² ) , both at birth and the duration of lactation period , the effect most likely being secondary to maternal toxicity .
No other effects on litter size , litter weight , abnormalities in the pups and physical developments of the pups were seen in this study .
A second study examined the effects of lidocaine on post - natal development in the rat that included assessment of the pups from weaning to sexual maturity .
Rats were treated for 8 months with 10 or 30 mg / kg , s . c . lidocaine ( 60 mg / m ² and 180 mg / m ² on a body surface area basis , respectively ) .
This time period encompassed 3 mating periods .
There was no evidence of altered post - natal development in an offspring ; however , both doses of lidocaine significantly reduced the average number of pups per litter surviving until weaning of offspring from the first 2 mating period .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery : Lidocaine is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Nursing mothers : Lidocaine is secreted in human milk .
The clinical significance of this observation is unknown .
Caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use : Although , the safety and effectiveness of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % in pediatric patients have not been established , a study of 19 premature neonates ( gestational age greater than 33 weeks ) found no correlation between the plasma concentration of lidocaine or monoethylglycinexylidide and infant body weight when moderate amounts of lidocaine ( i . e . 0 . 3 mL / kg of lidocaine gel 20 mg / ml ) were used for lubricating both intranasal and endotracheal tubes .
No neonate had plasma levels of lidocaine above 750 mcg / L .
Dosages in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight , and physical condition .
( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : There have been rare reports of endotracheal tube occlusion associated with the presence of dried jelly residue in the inner lumen of the tube .
see ( WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Central nervous system : CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold , or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system : Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic : Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
The dosage varies and depends upon the area to be anesthetized , vascularity of the tissues , individual tolerance , and the technique of anesthesia .
The lowest dosage needed to provide effective anesthesia should be administered .
Dosages should be reduced for children and for elderly and debilitated patients .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
For surface anesthesia of the male adult urethra : Slowly insill 15 mL ( 300 mg of lidocaine HCl ) into the urethra or until the patient has a feeling of tension .
A penile clamp is then applied for several minutes at the corona .
An additional dose of not more than 15 mL ( 300 mg ) can be instilled for adequate anesthesia .
Prior to sounding or cystoscopy , a penile clamp should be applied for 5 to 10 minutes to obtain adequate anesthesia .
A total dose of 30 mL ( 600 mg ) is usually required to fill and dilate the male urethra .
Prior to catheterization , smaller volumes 5 to 10 mL ( 100 to 200 mg ) are usually adequate for lubrication .
For surface anesthesia of the female adult urethra : Slowly instill 3 to 5 mL ( 600 to 100 mg of lidocaine HCl ) of the jelly into the urethra .
If desired , some jelly may be deposited on a cotton swab and introduced into the urethra .
In order to obtain adequate anesthesia , several minutes should be allowed prior to performing urological procedures .
Lubrication for endotracheal intubation : Apply a moderate amount of jelly to the external surface of the endotracheal tube shortly before use .
Care should be taken to avoid introducing the product into the lumen of the tube .
Do not use the jelly to lubricate endotracheal stylettes .
( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) concerning rare reports of inner lumen occlusion .
It is also recommended that use of endotracheal tubes with dried jelly on the external surface be avoided for lack of lubricating effect .
MAXIMUM DOSAGE : No more than 600 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride should be given in any 12 hour period .
Children : It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ' s rule ) .
For example , in a child of five years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 75 - 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ' s rule .
In any case , the maximum amount of lidocaine administered should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
Overdosage Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . )
Management of local anesthetic emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
The oral LD50 of lidocaine hydrochloride in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 – 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 – 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP , 2 % Box of 25 In unit use packages containing one single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In unit use packages containing one single use vial and a URO - JET ® AC ( Anatomically Constricted ) vial injector .
Box of 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Syringe Assembly Directions USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 76329 - 3012 - 5 Box of 25 In unit use packages containing one single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector NDC 0404 - 9900 - 05 1 unit use package containing 1 5 mL single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 76329 - 3012 - 5 ) 2 % NDC 76329 - 3013 - 5 Box of 25 In unit use packages containing one single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector NDC 0404 - 9898 - 10 1 unit use package containing 1 10 mL single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector in a bag ( Vial bears 76329 - 3013 - 5 ) 2 % NDC 76329 - 3015 - 5 Box of 25 In unit use packages containing one single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector NDC 0404 - 9899 - 20 1 unit use package containing 1 20 mL single use vial and a URO - JET ® vial injector in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 76329 - 3015 - 5 ) 2 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED SOUTH EL MONTE , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company REV . 10 - 19 6930120 Q Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
