[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP , for oral administration contains 100 , 000 Nystatin units per mL .
In addition , the yellow opaque suspension contains the following inactive ingredients : Alcohol ( 0 . 5 % v / v ) , USP , Alcohol free Bubble Gum Flavoring , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , USP , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , USP , Glycerin Natural 99 . 5 % , USP , Methylparaben , NF , ( Preservative ) , Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , USP , Propylparaben , NF , ( Preservative ) , Purified Water , USP , Saccharin Sodium , USP , and Sucrose , NF .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
Candida albicans demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin in vitro on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other Candida species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop in vivo .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible Candida species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP , is indicated for the treatment of candidiasis in the oral cavity .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The preparation is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin oral suspension .
It is also not known whether nystatin oral suspension can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin oral suspension should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic : Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other : Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects or superinfections ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infants 2 mL ( 200 , 000 units ) four times daily ( in infants and young children , use dropper to place one - half of dose in each side of mouth and avoid feeding for 5 to 10 minutes ) .
NOTE : Limited clinical studies in premature and low birth weight infants indicate that 1 mL four times daily is effective .
Children and Adults 4 to 6 mL ( 400 , 000 to 600 , 000 units ) four times daily ( one - half of dose in each side of mouth ) .
The preparation should be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing .
Continue treatment for at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and cultures demonstrate eradication of Candida albicans .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP , 100 , 000 Nystatin units per mL , is available as a bubble gum flavored , yellow opaque , ready - to - use suspension .
Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP , is available as follows : NDC : 63629 - 8521 - 1 : 2 fl .
oz .
bottle ( 60 mL ) : supplied in individual carton with calibrated dropper Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] AVOID FREEZING Rx Only Manufactured By : VistaPharm ® Largo , FL 33771 VP1086R2 06 / 19 Nystatin 100000 Suspension , # 60 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
