Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 03 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EUCRISA is indicated for topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in adult and pediatric patients 3 months of age and older .
EUCRISA is a phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor indicated for topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in adult and pediatric patients 3 months of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of EUCRISA twice daily to affected areas .
EUCRISA is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a thin layer twice daily to affected areas .
( 2 ) • For topical use only .
( 2 ) • Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ointment : 20 mg of crisaborole per gram ( 2 % ) of white to off - white ointment .
Ointment , 2 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EUCRISA is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to crisaborole or any component of the formulation .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 .
1 ) ] Known hypersensitivity to crisaborole or any component of the formulation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions : If signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity occur , discontinue EUCRISA immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including contact urticaria , have occurred in patients treated with EUCRISA .
Hypersensitivity should be suspected in the event of severe pruritus , swelling and erythema at the application site or at a distant site .
If signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity occur , discontinue EUCRISA immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction occurring in ≥ 1 % in subjects is application site pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pfizer Inc . at 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) , 1012 subjects 2 to 79 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were treated with EUCRISA twice daily for 4 weeks .
The adverse reaction reported by ≥ 1 % of EUCRISA - treated subjects is listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reaction Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects in Atopic Dermatitis Trials through Week 4 Adverse Reaction EUCRISA N = 1012 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 499 n ( % ) Application site pain [ 1 ] 45 ( 4 ) 6 ( 1 ) [ 1 ] Refers to skin sensations such as burning or stinging .
Less common ( < 1 % ) adverse reactions in subjects treated with EUCRISA included contact urticaria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of EUCRISA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Skin and Subcutaneous : allergic contact dermatitis 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no available data with EUCRISA in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental effects observed with oral administration of crisaborole in pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 3 and 2 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies carry some risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The background risk of major birth defects in the U . S . general population is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data Rat and rabbit embryo - fetal development was assessed after oral administration of crisaborole .
Crisaborole did not cause adverse effects to the fetus at oral doses up to 300 mg / kg / day in pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis ( 3 times the MRHD on an area under the curve ( AUC ) comparison basis ) .
No crisaborole - related fetal malformations were noted after oral treatment with crisaborole in pregnant rats at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 13 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) during the period of organogenesis .
Maternal toxicity was produced at this high dose of 600 mg / kg / day in pregnant rats and was associated with decreased fetal body weight and delayed skeletal ossification .
Crisaborole did not cause adverse effects to the fetus at oral doses up to the highest dose tested of 100 mg / kg / day in pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis ( 2 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
In a prenatal / postnatal development study , pregnant rats were treated with crisaborole at doses of 150 , 300 , or 600 mg / kg / day by oral gavage during gestation and lactation ( from gestation day 7 through day 20 of lactation ) .
Crisaborole did not have any adverse effects on fetal development at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
Maternal toxicity was produced at the high dose of 600 mg / kg / day in pregnant rats and was associated with stillbirths , pup mortality , and reduced pup weights .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of EUCRISA in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production after topical application of EUCRISA to women who are breastfeeding .
EUCRISA is systemically absorbed .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of EUCRISA to a breastfed infant .
Therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for EUCRISA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from EUCRISA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of EUCRISA have been established in pediatric patients ages 3 months and older for topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis .
Use of EUCRISA in this age group is supported by data from two 28 - day adequate , vehicle - controlled safety and efficacy trials which included 1 , 313 pediatric subjects ages 2 years to 17 years of whom 874 received EUCRISA .
The most commonly reported adverse reaction in subjects 2 years and older was application site pain .
Additionally , use of EUCRISA in pediatric patients ages 3 months to less than 2 years was supported by data from a 28 - day open - label , safety and pharmacokinetics ( PK ) trial in 137 subjects .
No new safety signals were identified in subjects 3 months to less than 2 years of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of EUCRISA in pediatric patients below the age of 3 months have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of EUCRISA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION EUCRISA contains 2 % crisaborole ( w / w ) in a petrolatum - based , white to off - white ointment and is for topical use .
The active ingredient , crisaborole , is a phosphodiesterase - 4 ( PDE - 4 ) inhibitor .
Crisaborole is described chemically as 5 - ( 4 - cyanophenoxy ) - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - hydroxy - [ 2 , 1 ] - benzoxaborole .
The empirical formula is C14H10BNO3 and the molecular weight is 251 . 1 g / mol .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Crisaborole drug substance is freely soluble in common organic solvents such as isopropyl alcohol and propylene glycol , and insoluble in water .
Each gram of EUCRISA contains 20 mg of crisaborole in an ointment containing white petrolatum , propylene glycol , mono - and di - glycerides , paraffin , butylated hydroxytoluene , and edetate calcium disodium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Crisaborole is a phosphodiesterase 4 ( PDE - 4 ) inhibitor .
PDE - 4 inhibition results in increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) levels .
The specific mechanism ( s ) by which crisaborole exerts its therapeutic action for the treatment of atopic dermatitis is not well defined .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At therapeutic doses , EUCRISA ointment is not expected to prolong QTc to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The PK of EUCRISA were investigated in 33 pediatric subjects 2 to 17 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis and a mean ± SD body surface area ( BSA ) involvement of 49 ± 20 % ( range 27 % to 92 % ) .
In this study , subjects applied approximately 3 mg / cm2 of EUCRISA ointment ( dose range was approximately 6 g to 30 g per application ) twice daily for 8 days .
Plasma concentrations were quantifiable in all the subjects .
The mean ± SD maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration time curve from 0 to 12 hours post dose ( AUC0 – 12 ) for crisaborole on Day 8 were 127 ± 196 ng / mL and 949 ± 1240 ng h / mL , respectively .
Systemic concentrations of crisaborole were at steady state by Day 8 .
Based on the ratios of AUC0 – 12 between Day 8 and Day 1 , the mean accumulation factor for crisaborole was 1 . 9 .
The PK of EUCRISA were investigated in 13 subjects 4 months to less than 24 months of age .
The mean ± SD Cmax and AUC0 – 12 for crisaborole were 188 ± 100 ng / mL and 1164 ± 550 ng ∙ h / mL , respectively .
Distribution Based on an in vitro study , crisaborole is 97 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism Crisaborole is substantially metabolized into inactive metabolites .
The major metabolite 5 - ( 4 - cyanophenoxy ) - 2 - hydroxyl benzylalcohol ( metabolite 1 ) , is formed via hydrolysis ; this metabolite is further metabolized into downstream metabolites , among which 5 - ( 4 - cyanophenoxy ) - 2 - hydroxyl benzoic acid ( metabolite 2 ) , formed via oxidation , is also a major metabolite .
PK of metabolites 1 and 2 were assessed in the PK study described above and the systemic concentrations were at or near steady state by Day 8 .
Based on the ratios of AUC0 – 12 between Day 8 and Day 1 , the mean accumulation factors for metabolites 1 and 2 were 1 . 7 and 6 . 3 , respectively .
Excretion Renal excretion of metabolites is the major route of elimination .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that under the conditions of clinical use , crisaborole and metabolite 1 are not expected to inhibit cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 .
In vitro human liver microsomes studies for metabolite 2 showed that it did not inhibit activities of CYP2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 ; was a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2 and 2B6 ; and a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C8 and 2C9 .
The most sensitive enzyme , CYP2C9 , was further investigated in a clinical trial using warfarin as a CYP2C9 substrate .
The results of this study showed no drug interaction potential .
In vitro studies in human hepatocytes showed that under the conditions of clinical use , crisaborole and metabolites 1 and 2 are not expected to induce CYP enzymes .
In vitro studies showed that crisaborole and metabolite 1 did not inhibit the activities of uridine diphosphate ( UDP ) - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) 1A1 , 1A4 , 1A6 , 1A9 , 2B7 , and 2B15 .
Metabolite 2 did not inhibit UGT1A4 , 1A6 , 2B7 , and 2B15 .
Metabolite 2 showed weak inhibition of UGT1A1 , however , no clinically significant drug interactions are expected between crisaborole ( and its metabolites ) and UGT1A1 substrates at therapeutic concentrations .
Metabolite 2 showed moderate inhibition of UGT1A9 and may result in a moderate increase of the concentrations of sensitive UGT1A9 substrates .
In vitro studies indicate that under the condition of clinical use , crisaborole and metabolites 1 and 2 are not expected to cause clinically significant interactions with substrates of P - glycoprotein and organic anionic or cationic transporters .
Crisaborole and metabolite 1 are not expected to inhibit breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) ; metabolite 2 is expected to inhibit BCRP at therapeutic concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an oral carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , oral doses of 30 , 100 , or 300 mg / kg / day crisaborole were administered to rats once daily .
A crisaborole - related increased incidence of benign granular cell tumors in the uterus with cervix and vagina ( combined ) was noted in 300 mg / kg / day crisaborole treated female rats ( 2 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown .
In a dermal carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , topical doses of 2 % , 5 % , or 7 % crisaborole ointment were administered once daily .
No crisaborole - related neoplastic findings were noted at topical doses up to 7 % crisaborole ointment ( 1 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
Crisaborole revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( rat micronucleus assay ) .
No effects on fertility were observed in male or female rats that were administered oral doses up to 600 mg / kg / day crisaborole ( 13 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) prior to and during early pregnancy .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , vehicle - controlled trials ( Trials 1 and 2 ) treated a total of 1522 subjects 2 to 79 years of age ( 86 . 3 % of subjects were 2 to 17 years of age ) with a 5 % to 95 % treatable BSA .
At baseline , 38 . 5 % of the subjects had an Investigator ' s Static Global Assessment [ ISGA ] score of 2 ( mild ) , and 61 . 5 % had an ISGA score of 3 ( moderate ) , in the overall assessment of atopic dermatitis ( erythema , induration / papulation , and oozing / crusting ) on a severity scale of 0 to 4 .
In both trials , subjects were randomized 2 : 1 to receive EUCRISA or vehicle applied twice daily for 28 days .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects at Day 29 who achieved success , defined as an ISGA grade of Clear ( score of 0 ) or Almost Clear ( score of 1 ) with a 2 - grade or greater improvement from baseline , comparing EUCRISA - treated subjects to vehicle - treated subjects .
Efficacy results from the two trials are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Primary Efficacy Outcomes in Subjects with Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis at Day 29 Trial 1 Trial 2 EUCRISA ( N = 503 ) Vehicle ( N = 256 ) EUCRISA ( N = 513 ) Vehicle ( N = 250 ) Success in ISGA [ 1 ] 32 . 8 % 25 . 4 % 31 . 4 % 18 . 0 % [ 1 ] Defined as an ISGA score of Clear ( 0 ) or Almost Clear ( 1 ) with a 2 - grade or greater improvement from baseline .
The success rates over time are presented in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Success in ISGA [ 1 ] Over Time in Subjects with Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis Trial 1 Trial 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Success is defined as an ISGA score of Clear ( 0 ) or Almost Clear ( 1 ) with a 2 - grade or greater improvement from baseline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied EUCRISA is a white to off - white ointment containing 2 % crisaborole and is supplied in 60 g and 100 g laminate tubes .
60 g tube : NDC 55724 - 211 - 21 100 g tube : NDC 55724 - 211 - 11 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C – 25 ° C ( 68 ° F – 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C – 30 ° C ( 59 ° F – 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tube tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregivers to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients to discontinue EUCRISA and seek medical attention immediately if signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients or caregivers that EUCRISA is for external use only and is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0916 - 5 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 04 / 2020 PATIENT INFORMATION EUCRISA ® ( you - KRIS - a ) ( crisaborole ) ointment , 2 % Important information : EUCRISA is for use on skin ( topical use ) only .
Do not use EUCRISA in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is EUCRISA ? EUCRISA is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat mild to moderate eczema ( atopic dermatitis ) in adults and children 3 months of age and older .
It is not known if EUCRISA is safe and effective in children under 3 months of age .
Who should not use EUCRISA ?
Do not use EUCRISA if you are allergic to crisaborole or any of the ingredients in EUCRISA .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in EUCRISA .
Before using EUCRISA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EUCRISA will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if EUCRISA passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use EUCRISA ?
• Use EUCRISA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Apply a thin layer of EUCRISA to the affected areas 2 times each day .
• Wash your hands after applying EUCRISA , unless hands are being treated .
If someone else applies EUCRISA for you , they should wash their hands after applying EUCRISA .
What are the possible side effects of EUCRISA ? EUCRISA may cause side effects .
• Allergic reactions .
EUCRISA may cause allergic reactions at or near the application site .
These can be serious and may include hives , itching , swelling , and redness .
If you have any of these symptoms , stop using EUCRISA and get medical help right away .
The most common side effect of EUCRISA is application site pain , such as burning or stinging .
This is not the only possible side effect of EUCRISA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EUCRISA ?
• Store EUCRISA at room temperature , between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the tube tightly closed .
General information about the safe and effective use of EUCRISAMedicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EUCRISA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EUCRISA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about EUCRISA that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in EUCRISA ? Active ingredient : crisaborole Inactive ingredients : white petrolatum , propylene glycol , mono - and di - glycerides , paraffin , butylated hydroxytoluene , and edetate calcium disodium .
For more information , call 1 - 866 - EUCRISA [ 1 - 866 - 382 - 7472 ] or go to www . EUCRISA . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0917 - 4 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Label eucrisa ® ( crisaborole ) ointment 2 % NDC 55724 - 211 - 21 60 g Rx only For Topical Use Only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton eucrisa ® ( crisaborole ) ointment 2 % For Topical Use Only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
NDC 55724 - 211 - 21 60 g Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Label - Sample eucrisa ® ( crisaborole ) ointment 2 % PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE NDC 55724 - 211 - 23 60 g Rx only For Topical Use Only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton - Sample eucrisa ® ( crisaborole ) ointment 2 % PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE For Topical Use Only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
NDC 55724 - 211 - 23 60 g Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
