Active ingredients Camphor 5 % Menthol 3 . 4 % Purposes External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Do not use • on wounds • on irritated or damaged skin • if the appearance of this product has changed • in excess of 12 hours • if you have known hypersensitivities to this product • otherwise than as directed Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • pregnant • taking other medications When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly • supervise use by children • use caution if prone to allergic reactions Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive irritation of the skin develops • when using for pain of arthritis : • • pain persists for more than 10 days • redness is present • in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply one or two plasters to affected area once a day .
Remove after 12 hours .
• children 2 to 12 years of age and adults with compromised health : Use only under the guidance of a doctor • children under 2 years of age : Do not use , consult a doctor Refer to the above warnings ; use otherwise than as directed may be dangerous .
Other information • keep container tightly closed • store below 20º C ( 68 E F ) in a dry area Inactive ingredients Chinese rhubarb rhizome and root , cinnamon bark , clove , dimethyl sulfoxide , dong - quai root , ginger rhizome , greater galangal rhizome , green peppercorns , lanolin , long pepper ( Piper longum L . ) fruit , paraffin , petrolatum , rosin , safflower flowers , Sichuan lovage rhizome , Sichuan pepper [ Zanthoxylum piperitum ( L . ) DC . ]
peel , and zinc oxide , on a rubberized fabric support with a paper backing .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm TONG LUO QU TONG GAO PAIN RELIEVING POULTICE NDC 44217 - 100 - 01 4 PLASTERS EACH PLASTER 2 . 75 IN X 3 . 94 IN ( 7 CM X 10 CM ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
