L ' BEL SUPREMACIE NX JOUR Replenishing Treatment Daytime Face Cream SPF 15 Normal To Oily Skin Active Ingredients ENSULIZOLE ( 1 . 50 % ) HOMOSALATE ( 1 . 00 % ) OCTINOXATE ( 7 . 50 % ) OXYBENZONE ( 4 . 50 % ) TITANIUM DIOXIDE ( 1 . 17 % ) Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings • Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
• For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 years • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other Information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• Use in the morning after cleanser and toner .
Apply a small quantity with your fingertips , spreading it over your face with rising , circular movements .
Message in gently to help facilitate absorption .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , cyclopentasiloxane , c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , pisum sativum extract ( pisum sativum ( pea ) extract ) , cyclohexasiloxane , triethanolamine , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , propylene glycol , methyl methacrylate crosspolymer , peg - 75 stearate , phenoxyethanol , erythritol , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , xanthan gum , parfum ( fragrance ) , trifolium pratense flower extract ( trifolium pratense ( clover ) flower extract ) , acrylates / c10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , ceteth - 20 , sorghum bicolor stalk juice , steareth - 20 , methylparaben , silica , methicone , butylparaben , dimethicone crosspolymer , dimethicone / vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer , stearic acid , chlorphenesin , butylene glycol , sorbic acid , tetrasodium edta , hydroxyethyl acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , hydrolyzed algin , ethylparaben , dimethiconol , squalane , chlorella vulgaris extract , lecithin , maris aqua ( sea water ) , isobutylparaben , propylparaben , carbomer , polysorbate 60 , homarine hcl , ci 19140 ( yellow 5 ) , biotinoyl tripeptide - 1 , ci 14700 ( red 4 ) .
Purpose Sunscreen EXPERT ROUTINE L ' BEL L ' Bel presents Expert Routine , a skin care program with two steps that work together for enhanced results : 1 .
Cleanse the skin according to its needs 2 .
Nourish according to the age .
SUPREMACIE NX JOUR replenishing daytime face cream SPF 15 L ' Bel , fully specialized in cosmetic facial treatment , presents the latest worldwide exclusive : the new Supremacie NX line of replenishing cosmetic treatments improved for women after age 40 .
Dazzling beauty for women The moisturizing formula of Supremacie NX Jour , Offers enhanced results : • Immediate , strong and long - lasting hydration in the areas where the face needs it most .
• Visibly diminishes the appearance of wrinkles .
• Uncovers skin that looks more firm .
A sensation of well - being that pervades the senses Its rich and creamy texture , ideal for absorption has been specially created to provide a pleasant sensation of softness and comfort .
Its exquisite fragrance rich in essences awakens the skin with new and pleasant emotions .
In two options according to your skin ' s needs : • SUPREMACIE NX JOUR - replenishing daytime face cream SPF 15 Normal to Dry Skin • SUPREMACIE NX JOUR - replenishing daytime face cream SPF 15 Normal to Oily Skin USES : Helps prevent sunburn .
WARNINGS : Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply at least every 2 hours . Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other information : Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Use in the morning after cleanser and toner .
Apply a small quantity with your fingertips , spreading it over your face with rising , circular movements .
Message in gently to help facilitate absorption .
• HYPOALLERGENIC • DERMATOLOGICALLY AND CLINICALLY TESTED L ' BEL SUPREMACIE NX JOUR replenishing daytime face cream SPF 15 normal to oily skin 50 ml e ( 1 . 6 fl . oz . )
US : Dist .
by Ventura International Ltd .
DBA Belcorp USA , San Francisco , CA 94111 P . R . : Dist .
by Ventura Corporation Ltd .
San Juan , Puerto Rico 00926 MADE IN FRANCE L ' BEL SUPREMACIE NX JOUR Replenishing Treatment Daytime Face Cream SPF 15 Normal To Oily Skin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
