Drug Facts Active Ingredients 1 . 1 % Neutral Sodium Floride DESCRIPTION : Self - topical neutral fluoride dentifrice containing 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) sodium fluoride for use as a dental caries preventive in adults and pediatric patients .
Purpose For prevention of tooth decay , orthodontic decalcification and hypersensitivity .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
As with all medications , keep out of reach of children .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Frequent topical applications to the teeth with preparations having a relatively high fluoride content increases tooth resistance to acid dissolution and enhance penetration of the fluoride ion into tooth enamel .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : NeutraMaxx ™ 5000 with Tri - Calcium Phosphate is a self applied dentifrice for prevention of tooth decay , orthodontic decalcification and hypersensitivity A dental caries preventive ; for once daily self - applied topical use .
It is well established that 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators .
1 - 4 NeutalMaxx ™ brand of 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride in a squeeze tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush .
This prescription dental cream should be used once daily in place of your regular toothpaste unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional .
May be used whether or not drinking water is fluoridated , since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorisis .
( See WARNINGS for exceptions ) WARNINGS : Prolonged daily ingestion may result in various degrees of dental fluorosis in pediatric patients under 6 years , especially if the water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm , since younger pediatric patients frequently cannot preform the brushing process without significant swallowing .
Use in pediatric patients under 6 years requires special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of the cream which could cause dental fluorosis .
Read directions carefully before using .
Keep out of reach of infants and children .
Warnings • Do not swallow • For topical use only • As with all medications , keep out of reach of children PRECAUTIONS : Not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogensesis was observed in rats , males or females , treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of boby weight .
Epidemiological data provide no credible evidence for an assocoation between Fluoride , either naturally occuring or added to drinking water , and the risk of human cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shown that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those to which humans are exposed .
Invivo data exposure in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) do not resule in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Catagory B .
It has shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , bot only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered in incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size of fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of sheletal or visceral malformations .
Epidemiologiical studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
heavy exposure to fluoride during utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis , which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when product containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing high concentration of fluoride ( 96 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use : The use of NeutraMaxx ™ in pediatric age group 6 to 16 years as a caries preventive is supported by pioneering clinical studies with 1 . 1 % sodium Fluoride gets in mouth trays in students age 11 - 14 years conducted by Englander , et al . 2 , 3 , 4 Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Please refer to CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
ADVERSE REASTIONS : Allergic reaction and other idosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
OVERDOSE : Accidential ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning of the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salvation , hematemesis and epigastric cramping and abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ) have been ingested , induce emesis , give oral soluble calcium ( e . g . milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more that 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Directions : Use As Directed This prescription dentifrice is recommended for adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older • Apply a thin ribbon of NeutraMaxxtm 5000 TCP along the length of the toothbrush no more than " pea size " total dose .
Brush for two minutes .
• After brushing ADULTS - Expectorate , do not eat for 30 minutes .
CHILDREN 6 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER - Expectorate and rinse mouth with water .
Rinse mouth thoroughly .
• Use at bedtime in place of your regular toothpaste or as directed by your dental professional .
Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by you dental professional .
HOW SUPPLIES : 4 oz .
( 112 gm ) net wt .
tube STORAGE : Store at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients : Filtered Water , Sorbitol , Hydrated Silica , Glycerin , PEG 8000 , Carboxymethylcellulose , Xylitol , MonoSodium Phosphate , Titanium Dioxide , Vanilla Mint Flavor , Sodium Saccharin , Tri - Calcium Phosphate Questions ?
Comments ?
Section Call 1 - 479 - 787 - 5168 M - F 9 am to 5 pm CST NeutraMaxxC TCP VANILLA MINT NDS 63783 63783 - 502 - 04 VANILLA MINT FLAVOR ANTI - CAVITY TOOTHPASTE XYLITOL NeutraMaxx ™ 5000 TRI - CALCIUM PHOSPHATE 1 . 1 % Neutral Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sweetened with Xylitol DOES NOT CONTAIN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE RX ONLY Net wt .
4 oz ( 112 G ) Manufactured By : MASSCO DENTAL A Division of Dunagin Pharmaceuticals , Rogers , AR 800 - 227 - 1296 • www . masscodental . net [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
