WARNING RISK OF CARDIAC ARREST FROM HYPERKALEMIC RHABDOMYOLYSIS There have been rare reports of acute rhabdomyolysis with hyperkalemia followed by ventricular dysrhythmias , cardiac arrest and death after the administration of succinylcholine to apparently healthy pediatric patients who were subsequently found to have undiagnosed skeletal muscle myopathy , most frequently Duchenne ’ s muscular dystrophy .
This syndrome often presents as peaked T - waves and sudden cardiac arrest within minutes after the administration of the drug in healthy appearing pediatric patients ( usually , but not exclusively , males , and most frequently 8 years of age or younger ) .
There have also been reports in adolescents .
Therefore , when a healthy appearing infant or child develops cardiac arrest soon after administration of succinylcholine , not felt to be due to inadequate ventilation , oxygenation or anesthetic overdose , immediate treatment for hyperkalemia should be instituted .
This should include administration of intravenous calcium , bicarbonate , and glucose with insulin , with hyperventilation .
Due to the abrupt onset of this syndrome , routine resuscitative measures are likely to be unsuccessful .
However , extraordinary and prolonged resuscitative efforts have resulted in successful resuscitation in some reported cases .
In addition , in the presence of signs of malignant hyperthermia , appropriate treatment should be instituted concurrently .
Since there may be no signs or symptoms to alert the practitioner to which patients are at risk , it is recommended that the use of succinylcholine in pediatric patients should be reserved for emergency intubation or instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary , e . g . , laryngospasm , difficult airway , full stomach , or for intramuscular use when a suitable vein is inaccessible ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Primary package for Succinylcholine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
