Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 . 72 % Octisalate 3 . 21 % Octocrylene 6 % Oxybenzone 3 . 86 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For sunscreen use : ● apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure ● apply to all skin exposed to the sun [ this statement is optional ] ● reapply : ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours ● Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ● limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ● wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , cyclopentasiloxane , alcohol denat . , silica dicaprylyl ether , styrene / acrylates copolymer , diethylhexyl syringlyidenemalonate , PEG - 30 dipolyhydroxystearate , dimethicone , cyclohexasiloxane , polymethylsilsesquioxane , nylon - 12 , dicaprylyl carbonate , phenoxyethanol , lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 methicone , sodium chloride , caprylyl glycol , PEG - 8 laurate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , poly C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate , disteardimonium hectorite , isostearyl alcohol , p - anisic acid , disodium EDTA , cassia alata leaf extract , maltodextrin , dodecene , poloxamer 407 Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - LRP - LABO 1 - 888 - 577 - 5226 Monday - Friday ( 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . EST ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
