[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 is a sterile , nonpyrogenic isotonic solution in a single dose container for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL contains 526 mg of Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) ; 502 mg of Sodium Gluconate ( C6H11NaO7 ) ; 368 mg of Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP ( C2H3NaO2 • 3H2O ) ; 37 mg of Potassium Chloride , USP ( KCl ) ; and 30 mg of Magnesium Chloride , USP ( MgCl2 • 6H2O ) .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
The pH is 7 . 4 ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 ) .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 administered intravenously has value as a source of water , electrolytes , and calories .
One liter has an ionic concentration of 140 mEq sodium , 5 mEq potassium , 3 mEq magnesium , 98 mEq chloride , 27 mEq acetate , and 23 mEq gluconate .
The osmolarity is 294 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Normal physiologic osmolarity range is 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
The caloric content is 21 kcal / L .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 produces a metabolic alkalinizing effect .
Acetate and gluconate ions are metabolized ultimately to carbon dioxide and water , which requires the consumption of hydrogen cations .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes or as an alkalinizing agent .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the product .
See WARNINGS .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions have been reported with Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction develop , such as tachycardia , chest pain , dyspnea and flushing .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
Electrolyte Imbalances Fluid Overload Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , the intravenous administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP can cause electrolyte disturbances such as overhydration , and congested states , including pulmonary congestion and edema .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use .
Hyponatremia Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP may cause hyponatremia .
Hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy , and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
The risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia is increased in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) treated with high volume of hypotonic Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in hypervolemic or overhydrated patients .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Hypernatremia Hypernatremia may occur with Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP .
Conditions that may increase the risk of hypernatremia , fluid overload and edema ( central and peripheral ) , include patients with : primary hyperaldosteronism ; secondary hyperaldosteronism associated with , for example , hypertension , congestive heart failure , liver disease ( including cirrhosis ) , renal disease ( including renal artery stenosis , nephrosclerosis ) ; and pre - eclampsia .
Certain medications , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin , may also increase risk of sodium and fluid retention , see PRECAUTIONS .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with , or at risk for , hypernatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Hypermagnesemia Avoid solutions containing magnesium including Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with or predisposed to hypermagnesemia , including patients with severe renal impairment and those patients receiving magnesium therapy ( e . g . , treatment of eclampsia and myasthenia gravis ) .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP is not indicated for the treatment of hypomagnesemia .
Acidosis Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP is not for use for the treatment of lactic acidosis or severe metabolic acidosis in patients with severe liver and / or renal impairment .
Alkalosis Excess administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP can result in metabolic alkalosis .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with alkalosis or at risk for alkalosis .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP is not indicated for the treatment of hypochloremic hypokalemic alkalosis .
Avoid use in patients with hypochloremic hypokalemic alkalosis .
Hypocalcemia Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP contains no calcium , and an increase in plasma pH due to its alkalinizing effect may lower the concentration of ionized ( not protein - bound ) calcium .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with hypocalcemia .
Hyperkalemia Potassium - containing solutions , including Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP may increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Patient ' s at increased risk of developing hyperkalemia include those : • With conditions predisposing to hyperkalemia and / or associated with increased sensitivity to potassium , such as patients with severe renal impairment , acute dehydration , extensive tissue injury or burns , certain cardiac disorders such as congestive heart failure .
• Treated concurrently or recently with agents or products that cause or increase the risk of hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with , or at risk for hyperkalemia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum potassium concentrations .
Although Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP has a potassium concentration in plasma , it is insufficient to produce a useful effect in case of severe potassium deficiency ; therefore , it is not indicated for correction of severe potassium deficiency .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment , administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP may result in sodium and / or potassium or magnesium retention ( see WARNINGS ) .
Avoid Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients with severe renal impairment or conditions that may cause sodium and / or potassium retention or magnesium retention , fluid overload , or edema .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor patients with severe renal impairment for development of these adverse reactions .
Drug Interactions Other Products that Affect Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention , may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload .
Avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients receiving such products , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum electrolytes , fluid balance and acid - base balance .
Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia .
Avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients receiving products , such as diuretics , and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications .
Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Lithium Renal clearance of lithium may be increased during administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
Other Products that Increase the Risk of Hyperkalemia Because of its potassium content , avoid use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in patients receiving products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia , such as potassium sparing diuretics , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor antagonists , or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum potassium concentrations .
Drugs with pH Dependent Renal Elimination Due to its alkalinizing effect ( formation of bicarbonate ) , Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP may interfere with the elimination of drugs with pH dependent renal elimination .
Renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased .
Renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions There have been reports of positive test results using the Bio - Rad Laboratories Platelia Aspergillus EIA test in patients receiving gluconate containing Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP solutions .
These patients were subsequently found to be free of Aspergillus infection .
Therefore , positive test results for this test in patients receiving gluconate containing Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP solutions should be interpreted cautiously and confirmed by other diagnostic methods .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP .
It is also not known whether Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP in pediatric patients is based on clinical practice .
Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk of developing electrolyte imbalances .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Therefore , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Consider monitoring renal function in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Post - Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because postmarketing reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity and Infusion Reactions : tachycardia , chest pain , chest discomfort , dyspnea , flushing , hyperemia , asthenia , pyrexia , hypotension , wheezing , urticaria , cold sweat , chills .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : infusion site pain , burning sensation .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : hyperkalemia , hyponatremia .
Nervous System Disorders : hyponatremic encephalopathy .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 can cause : • fluid overload with a risk of edema ( peripheral and / or pulmonary ) , particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired .
• hypernatremia and hyperkalemia , especially in patients with severe renal impairment .
• hypermagnesemia .
See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS • metabolic alkalosis with or without hypokalemia and decreased ionized serum calcium and magnesium concentrations .
When assessing an overdose , any additives in the solution must also be considered .
The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment .
Interventions include discontinuation of Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 , dose reduction , and other measures as indicated for the specific clinical constellation ( e . g . , monitoring of fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions • Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
• Do not connect flexible plastic containers in series in order to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container .
• Set the vent to the closed position on a vented intravenous administration set to prevent air embolism .
• Use a dedicated line without any connections to avoid air embolism .
• Do not pressurize intravenous solutions contained in flexible plastic containers to increase flow rates in order to avoid air embolism due to incomplete evacuation of residual air in the container .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , and container is undamaged .
• Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 is compatible with blood or blood components .
It may be administered prior to or following the infusion of blood through the same administration set ( i . e . , as a priming solution ) , added to or infused concurrently with blood components , or used as a diluent in the transfusion of packed erythrocytes .
Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP are equally compatible with blood or blood components .
Dosing Information The choice of product , dosage , volume , rate , and duration of administration is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient and concomitant therapy , and administration should be determined by a physician experienced in intravenous fluid therapy .
Introduction of Additives Additives may be incompatible .
Evaluate all additions to the plastic container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with a pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
After addition , if there is a discoloration and / or the appearance of precipitates , insoluble complexes or crystals , do not use .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
Discard any unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP , pH 7 . 4 in freeflex ® plastic containers is available as shown below : Product Code Unit of Use Unit of Sale 389150 NDC 65219 - 389 - 00 One 500 mL freeflex ® Bag NDC 65219 - 389 - 05 Package of 20 freeflex ® Bags 389100 NDC 65219 - 389 - 02 One 1000 mL freeflex ® Bag NDC 65219 - 389 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® Bags Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
.
Brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE For Information on Risk of Air Embolism – see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Check solution container composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use solution containers in series connections .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
The intact port caps provide visual tamper evidence .
Do not use if a port cap is prematurely removed .
Maintain strict aseptic technique during handling .
TO OPEN • Always inspect the solution container before and after removal from the overwrap .
• Place the solution container on a clean , flat surface .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove the solution container from the overwrap .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , discard as sterility may be impaired .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
TO PREPARE FOR ADMINISTRATION • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from the solution container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port , twist and push the spike until the spike is fully inserted .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
• The BLUE infusion port contains a selfsealing septum that helps prevent leakage after removing the spike .
The infusion port is not intended to be spiked more than once .
• Suspend solution container from hanger hole .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
TO ADD MEDICATION BEFORE SOLUTION ADMINISTRATION • Identify WHITE Injection Port with arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Injection Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Hold base of WHITE Injection Port .
• Insert needle ( 18 to 23 gauge ) through the center of WHITE Injection Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix solution container contents thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
TO ADD MEDICATION DURING SOLUTION ADMINISTRATION • Close the clamp on the set .
• Identify WHITE Injection Port with arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Injection Port cap with the arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Hold base of WHITE Injection Port .
• Insert needle ( 18 to 23 gauge ) through the center of WHITE Injection Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution container contents thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
For Single Use Only .
Discard unused portion .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Germany 451767 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us Issued : September 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 500 mL Bag Label 500 mL NDC 65219 - 389 - 00 Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 Rx only Each 100 mL contains : 526 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; 502 mg Sodium Gluconate , USP ; 368 mg Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP ; 37 mg Potassium Chloride , USP ; 30 mg Magnesium Chloride , USP pH adjusted with Sodium Hydroxide .
Electrolytes per 1 , 000 mL : Sodium 140 mEq ; Potassium 5 mEq ; Magnesium 3 mEq ; Chloride 98 mEq ; Acetate 27 mEq ; Gluconate 23 mEq 294 mOsmol / Liter ( Calc . )
pH 7 . 4 ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 500 mL Shipper Label NDC 65219 - 389 - 05389150 Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 500 mL x 20 STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] until ready to use .
Avoid excessive heat .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 1000 mL Bag Label 1000 mL NDC 65219 - 389 - 02 Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 Rx only Each 100 mL contains : 526 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; 502 mg Sodium Gluconate , USP ; 368 mg Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP ; 37 mg Potassium Chloride , USP ; 30 mg Magnesium Chloride , USP pH adjusted with Sodium Hydroxide .
Electrolytes per 1 , 000 mL : Sodium 140 mEq ; Potassium 5 mEq ; Magnesium 3 mEq ; Chloride 98 mEq ; Acetate 27 mEq ; Gluconate 23 mEq 294 mOsmol / Liter ( Calc . )
pH 7 . 4 ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 1000 mL Shipper Label NDC 65219 - 389 - 10389100 Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 1 , USP pH 7 . 4 1000 mL x 10 STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] until ready to use .
Avoid excessive heat .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
