Active Ingredient Chlophedianol HCL ; Antitussive Pryilamine Maleate ; Antihstamine Cold and Cough - Anitussive and Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hayfever , ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratroy allergies .
• Cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • Runny Nose • Sneezing • Itching of the Nose or Throat • Itchy , watery eyes Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL IS MISSING OR BROKEN .
Do not use this product If you are now taking prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions or Parkinsons disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have A cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema .
A cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Ask doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Taking sedatives or tranquilizers If you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis If you have glaucoma If you have difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product Excitability may occur , especially in children .
Marked drowsiness may occur Avoid alcoholic drinks Alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if Nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occurs Symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
New symptoms occur Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 6 to 8 hours not to exceed 8 teaspoons in 24 hr Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonfuls ( 5 ml ) every 6 to 8 hours not to exceed 4 teaspoons in 24 hr Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Inactive Ingredients Citric Acid , Glycerin , Natural & Artificial Flavors , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Citrate , Sucralose Questions ?
Comments ?
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 866 - 959 - 4880 Ninjacof Cotton Candy Flavor 16 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
