Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection , USP Rx only DESCRIPTION : Dexamethasone sodium phosphate is a water - soluble inorganic ester of dexamethasone .
It occurs as a white or slightly yellow crystalline powder , is odorless or has a slight odor of alcohol , is exceedingly hygroscopic and is freely soluble in water .
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate is an adrenocortical steroid anti - inflammatory drug .
Chemically , dexamethasone sodium phosphate is 9 - Fluoro - 11ß , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) disodium salt and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection , USP is a sterile solution of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in water for injection for intravenous ( IV ) , intramuscular ( IM ) , intra - articular , soft - tissue or intralesional use .
Each mL contains dexamethasone sodium phosphate equivalent to dexamethasone phosphate 4 mg or dexamethasone 3 . 33 mg ; benzyl alcohol 10 mg added as preservative ; sodium citrate dihydrate 11 mg ; sodium sulfite 1 mg as an antioxidant ; Water for Injection q . s . Citric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 7 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
Air in the container is displaced by nitrogen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Dexamethasone sodium phosphate has a rapid onset but short duration of action when compared with less soluble preparations .
Because of this , it is suitable for the treatment of acute disorders responsive to adrenocortical steroid therapy .
Naturally occurring glucocorticoids ( hydrocortisone and cortisone ) , which also have salt - retaining properties , are used as replacement therapy in adrenocortical deficiency states .
Their synthetic analogs , including dexamethasone , are primarily used for their potent anti - inflammatory effects in disorders of many organ systems .
Glucocorticoids cause profound and varied metabolic effects .
In addition , they modify the body ’ s immune responses to diverse stimuli .
At equipotent anti - inflammatory doses , dexamethasone almost completely lacks the sodium - retaining property of hydrocortisone and closely related derivatives of hydrocortisone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Intravenous or Intramuscular Injection When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength , dosage form , and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition , those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows : • Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency ( hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice ; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable ; in infancy , mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance ) Acute adrenocortical insufficiency ( hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice ; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary , particularly when synthetic analogs are used ) Preoperatively , and in the event of serious trauma or illness , in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer • Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short - term administration ( to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation ) in : Post - traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis , including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( selected cases may require low - dose maintenance therapy ) Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis • Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of : Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis • Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) Exfoliative dermatitis Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe seborrheic dermatitis Severe psoriasis Mycosis fungoides • Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in : Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema ( epinephrine is the drug of first choice ) • Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye , such as : Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis , iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers • Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in : Ulcerative colitis ( Systemic therapy ) Regional enteritis ( Systemic therapy ) • Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Loeffler ’ s syndrome not manageable by other means Aspiration pneumonitis • Hematologic Disorders Acquired ( autoimmune ) hemolytic anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults ( IV only ; IM administration is contraindicated ) Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia ( RBC anemia ) Congenital ( erythroid ) hypoplastic anemia • Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of : Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood • Edematous States To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome , without uremia , of the idiopathic type , or that due to lupus erythematosus • Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement • Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction • Cerebral Edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor , craniotomy , or head injury .
Use in cerebral edema is not a substitute for careful neurosurgical evaluation and definitive management such as neurosurgery or other specific therapy .
By Intra - articular or Soft Tissue Injection As adjunctive therapy for short - term administration ( to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation ) in : Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post - traumatic osteoarthritis By Intralesional Injection Keloids Localized hypertrophic , infiltrated , inflammatory lesions of : lichen planus , psoriatic plaques , granuloma annulare and lichen simplex chronicus ( neurodermatitis ) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata May also be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon ( ganglia ) CONTRAINDICATIONS : Systemic fungal infections ( see WARNINGS regarding amphotericin B ) .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product , including sulfites ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS : Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy , appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration , especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug .
Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported for dexamethasone sodium phosphate ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore , should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions due to amphotericin B . Moreover , there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive failure .
In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress , increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before , during , and after the stressful situation is indicated .
Drug - induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage .
This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy ; therefore , in any situation of stress occurring during that period , hormone therapy should be reinstituted .
If the patient is receiving steroids already , dosage may have to be increased .
Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired , salt and / or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently .
Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection , and new infections may appear during their use .
There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used .
Moreover , corticosteroids may affect the nitroblue - tetrazolium test for bacterial infection and produce false negative results .
In cerebral malaria , a double - blind trial has shown that the use of corticosteroids is associated with prolongation of coma and a higher incidence of pneumonia and gastrointestinal bleeding .
Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis .
Therefore , it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts , glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves , and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses .
Average and large doses of cortisone or hydrocortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure , salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary .
All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion .
Administration of live virus vaccines , including smallpox , is contraindicated in individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids .
If inactivated viral or bacterial vaccines are administered to individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids , the expected serum antibody response may not be obtained .
However , immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy , e . g . , for Addison ’ s disease .
Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in non - immune children or adults on corticosteroids .
In such children or adults who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route and duration of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chickenpox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information ) .
If chickenpox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
The use of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen .
If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity , close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur .
During prolonged corticosteroid therapy , these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis .
Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction ; therefore , therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients .
Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events , some resulting in death , have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids .
Specific events reported include , but are not limited to , spinal cord infarction , paraplegia , quadriplegia , cortical blindness , and stroke .
These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy .
The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids has not been established , and corticosteroids are not approved for this use .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C – Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids , use of these drugs in pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against the possible hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Corticosteroids appear in breast milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other unwanted effects .
Mothers taking pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids should be advised not to nurse .
PRECAUTIONS : This product , like many other steroid formulations , is sensitive to heat .
Therefore , it should not be autoclaved when it is desirable to sterilize the exterior of the vial .
Following prolonged therapy , withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in symptoms of the corticosteroid withdrawal syndrome including fever , myalgia , arthralgia , and malaise .
This may occur in patients even without evidence of adrenal insufficiency .
There is an enhanced effect of corticosteroids in patients with hypothyroidism and in those with cirrhosis .
Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex for fear of corneal perforation .
The lowest possible dose of corticosteroid should be used to control the condition under treatment , and when reduction in dosage is possible , the reduction must be gradual .
Psychic derangements may appear when corticosteroids are used , ranging from euphoria , insomnia , mood swings , personality changes , and severe depression to frank psychotic manifestations .
Also , existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids .
Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia .
Steroids should be used with caution in nonspecific ulcerative colitis , if there is a probability of impending perforation , abscess , or other pyogenic infection , also in diverticulitis , fresh intestinal anastomoses , active or latent peptic ulcer , renal insufficiency , hypertension , osteoporosis , and myasthenia gravis .
Signs of peritoneal irritation following gastrointestinal perforation in patients receiving large doses of corticosteroids may be minimal or absent .
Fat embolism has been reported as a possible complication of hypercortisonism .
When large doses are given , some authorities advise that antacids be administered between meals to help to prevent peptic ulcer .
Growth and development of infants and children on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should be carefully followed .
Steroids may increase or decrease motility and number of spermatozoa in some patients .
Phenytoin , phenobarbital , ephedrine , and rifampin may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity , thus requiring adjustment in corticosteroid dosage .
These interactions may interfere with dexamethasone suppression tests which should be interpreted with caution during administration of these drugs .
False negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test ( DST ) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported .
Thus , results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients .
The prothrombin time should be checked frequently in patients who are receiving corticosteroids and coumarin anticoagulants at the same time because of reports that corticosteroids have altered the response to these anticoagulants .
Studies have shown that the usual effect produced by adding corticosteroids is inhibition of response to coumarins , although there have been some conflicting reports of potentiation not substantiated by studies .
When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium - depleting diuretics , patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia .
Intra - articular injection of a corticosteroid may produce systemic as well as local effects .
Appropriate examination of any joint fluid present is necessary to exclude a septic process .
A marked increase in pain accompanied by local swelling , further restriction of joint motion , fever , and malaise is suggestive of septic arthritis .
If this complication occurs and the diagnosis of sepsis is confirmed , appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be instituted .
Injection of a steroid into an infected site is to be avoided .
Corticosteroids should not be injected into unstable joints .
Patients should be impressed strongly with the importance of not overusing joints in which symptomatic benefit has been obtained as long as the inflammatory process remains active .
Frequent intra - articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues .
The slower rate of absorption by intramuscular administration should be recognized .
Information for Patients Persons who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles .
Patients should also be advised that if they are exposed , medical advice should be sought without delay .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Fluid and electrolyte disturbances : Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal : Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of long bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal : Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel , particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic : Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling , especially in the perineal area ( after IV injection ) Other cutaneous reactions , such as allergic dermatitis , urticaria , angioneurotic edema Neurologic : Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema ( pseudotumor cerebri ) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine : Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness , particularly in times of stress , as in trauma , surgery , or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic : Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic : Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular : Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction ( see WARNINGS ) Other : Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy : Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post - injection flare ( following intra - articular use ) Charcot - like arthropathy OVERDOSAGE : Reports of acute toxicity and / or death following overdosage of glucocorticoids are rare .
In the event of overdosage , no specific antidote is available ; treatment is supportive and symptomatic .
The oral LD50 of dexamethasone in female mice was 6 . 5 g / kg .
The intravenous LD50 of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in female mice was 794 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection , 4 mg per mL – For intravenous , intramuscular , intra - articular , intralesional , and soft tissue injection .
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection can be given directly from the vial , or it can be added to Sodium Chloride Injection or Dextrose Injection and administered by intravenous drip .
Solutions used for intravenous administration or further dilution of this product should be preservative free when used in the neonate , especially the premature infant .
When it is mixed with an infusion solution , sterile precautions should be observed .
Since infusion solutions generally do not contain preservatives , mixtures should be used within 24 hours .
DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Intravenous and Intramuscular Injection : The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection varies from 0 . 5 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated .
In less severe diseases doses lower than 0 . 5 mg may suffice , while in severe diseases doses higher than 9 mg may be required .
The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until the patient ’ s response is satisfactory .
If a satisfactory clinical response does not occur after a reasonable period of time , discontinue dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection and transfer the patient to other therapy .
After a favorable initial response , the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial dosage in small amounts to the lowest dosage that maintains an adequate clinical response .
Patients should be observed closely for signs that might require dosage adjustment , including changes in clinical status resulting from remissions or exacerbations of the disease , individual drug responsiveness , and the effect of stress ( e . g . , surgery , infection , trauma ) .
During stress it may be necessary to increase dosage temporarily .
If the drug is to be stopped after more than a few days of treatment , it usually should be withdrawn gradually .
When the intravenous route of administration is used , dosage usually should be the same as the oral dosage .
In certain overwhelming , acute , life - threatening situations , however , administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages .
The slower rate of absorption by intramuscular administration should be recognized .
Shock There is a tendency in current medical practice to use high ( pharmacologic ) doses of corticosteroids for the treatment of unresponsive shock .
The following dosages of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection have been suggested by various authors : Author Dosage Cavanagh1 3 mg / kg of body weight per 24 hours by constant intravenous infusion after an initial intravenous injection of 20 mg Dietzman2 2 to 6 mg / kg of bodyweight as a single intravenous injection Frank3 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 4 to 6 hours while shock persists Oaks4 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 2 to 6 hours while shock persists Schumer5 1 mg / kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection Administration of high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until the patients condition has stabilized and usually not longer than 48 to 72 hours .
Although adverse reactions associated with high dose , short term corticosteroid therapy are uncommon , peptic ulceration may occur .
Cerebral Edema Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by four mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside .
Response is usually noted within 12 to 24 hours and dosage may be reduced after two to four days and gradually discontinued over a period of five to seven days .
For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors , maintenance therapy with two mg two or three times a day may be effective .
Acute Allergic Disorders In acute , self - limited allergic disorders or acute exacerbations of chronic allergic disorders , the following dosage schedule combining parenteral and oral therapy is suggested : Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection , 4 mg per mL : first day , 1 or 2 mL ( 4 or 8 mg ) , intramuscularly .
Dexamethasone tablets , 0 . 75 mg : second and third days , 4 tablets in two divided doses each day ; fourth day , 2 tablets in two divided doses ; fifth and sixth days , 1 tablet each day ; seventh day , no treatment ; eighth day , follow - up visit .
This schedule is designed to ensure adequate therapy during acute episodes , while minimizing the risk of overdosage in chronic cases .
Intra - articular , Intralesional and Soft Tissue Injection Intra - articular , intralesional , and soft tissue injections are generally employed when the affected joints or areas are limited to one or two sites .
Dosage and frequency of injection varies depending on the condition and the site of injection .
The usual dose is from 0 . 2 to 6 mg .
The frequency usually ranges from once every three to five days to once every two to three weeks .
Frequent intra - articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues .
Some of the usual single doses are : Site of Injection Amount of Dexamethasone Phosphate ( mg ) Large Joints ( e . g . , Knee ) 2 to 4 Small Joints ( e . g . , Interphalangeal , Temporomandibular ) 0 . 8 to 1 Bursae 2 to 3 Tendon Sheaths 0 . 4 to 1 Soft Tissue Infiltration 2 to 6 Ganglia 1 to 2 Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is particularly recommended for use in conjunction with one of the less soluble , longer - acting steroids for intra - articular and soft tissue injection .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : Product No .
NDC No .
16501 63323 - 165 - 01 Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection , USP ( equivalent to 4 mg per mL dexamethasone phosphate ) 1 mL fill , in a 2 mL flip - top vial , packaged in 25 .
STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Sensitive to heat .
Do not autoclave .
Protect from light .
Store container in carton until contents have been used .
Do not use if precipitate is present .
www . fresenius - kabi . us 45799 H Revised : March 2017 REFERENCES : • Cavanagh , D . ; Singh , K . B . : Endotoxin shock in pregnancy and abortion , in : “ Corticosteroids in the Treatment of Shock ” , Schumer , W . ; Nyhus , L . M . , Editors , Urbana , University of Illinois Press , 1970 , pp . 86 - 96 .
• Dietzman , R . H . ; Ersek , R . A . ; Bloch , J . M . ; Lillehei , R . C . : High - output , low - resistance gram - negative septic shock in man , Angiology 20 : 691 - 700 , Dec . 1969 .
• Frank , E . : Clinical observations in shock and management ( In : Shields , T . F . , ed . : Symposium on current concepts and management of shock ) , J . Maine Med .
Ass .
59 : 195 - 200 , Oct . 1968 .
• Oaks , W . W . ; Cohen , H . E . : Endotoxin shock in the geriatric patient , Geriat .
22 : 120 - 130 , Mar . 1967 .
• Schumer , W . ; Nyhus , L . M . : Corticosteroid effect on biochemical parameters of human oligemic shock , Arch .
Surg .
100 : 405 - 408 , Apr . 1970 .
MarcaineTM Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP Rx only DESCRIPTION Bupivacaine hydrochloride is 2 - Piperidinecarboxamide , 1 - butyl - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , monohydrochloride , monohydrate , a white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in 95 percent ethanol , soluble in water , and slightly soluble in chloroform or acetone .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MARCAINE is available in sterile isotonic solutions with and without epinephrine ( as bitartrate ) 1 : 200 , 000 for injection via local infiltration , peripheral nerve block , and caudal and lumbar epidural blocks .
Solutions of MARCAINE may be autoclaved if they do not contain epinephrine .
Solutions are clear and colorless .
Bupivacaine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the aminoacyl local anesthetics .
It is a homologue of mepivacaine and is chemically related to lidocaine .
All three of these anesthetics contain an amide linkage between the aromatic nucleus and the amino , or piperidine group .
They differ in this respect from the procaine - type local anesthetics , which have an ester linkage .
MARCAINE — Sterile isotonic solutions containing sodium chloride .
In multiple - dose vials , each mL also contains 1 mg methylparaben as antiseptic preservative .
The pH of these solutions is adjusted to between 4 and 6 . 5 with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Local anesthetics block the generation and the conduction of nerve impulses , presumably by increasing the threshold for electrical excitation in the nerve , by slowing the propagation of the nerve impulse , and by reducing the rate of rise of the action potential .
In general , the progression of anesthesia is related to the diameter , myelination , and conduction velocity of affected nerve fibers .
Clinically , the order of loss of nerve function is as follows : ( 1 ) pain , ( 2 ) temperature , ( 3 ) touch , ( 4 ) proprioception , and ( 5 ) skeletal muscle tone .
Systemic absorption of local anesthetics produces effects on the cardiovascular and central nervous systems ( CNS ) .
At blood concentrations achieved with normal therapeutic doses , changes in cardiac conduction , excitability , refractoriness , contractility , and peripheral vascular resistance are minimal .
However , toxic blood concentrations depress cardiac conduction and excitability , which may lead to atrioventricular block , ventricular arrhythmias , and cardiac arrest , sometimes resulting in fatalities .
In addition , myocardial contractility is depressed and peripheral vasodilation occurs , leading to decreased cardiac output and arterial blood pressure .
Recent clinical reports and animal research suggest that these cardiovascular changes are more likely to occur after unintended intravascular injection of bupivacaine .
Therefore , incremental dosing is necessary .
Following systemic absorption , local anesthetics can produce central nervous system stimulation , depression , or both .
Apparent central stimulation is manifested as restlessness , tremors and shivering progressing to convulsions , followed by depression and coma progressing ultimately to respiratory arrest .
However , the local anesthetics have a primary depressant effect on the medulla and on higher centers .
The depressed stage may occur without a prior excited state .
Pharmacokinetics : The rate of systemic absorption of local anesthetics is dependent upon the total dose and concentration of drug administered , the route of administration , the vascularity of the administration site , and the presence or absence of epinephrine in the anesthetic solution .
The onset of action with MARCAINE is rapid and anesthesia is long lasting .
The duration of anesthesia is significantly longer with MARCAINE than with any other commonly used local anesthetic .
It has also been noted that there is a period of analgesia that persists after the return of sensation , during which time the need for strong analgesics is reduced .
The onset of action following dental injections is usually 2 to 10 minutes and anesthesia may last two or three times longer than lidocaine and mepivacaine for dental use , in many patients up to 7 hours .
Local anesthetics are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Generally , the lower the plasma concentration of drug the higher the percentage of drug bound to plasma proteins .
Local anesthetics appear to cross the placenta by passive diffusion .
The rate and degree of diffusion is governed by ( 1 ) the degree of plasma protein binding , ( 2 ) the degree of ionization , and ( 3 ) the degree of lipid solubility .
Fetal / maternal ratios of local anesthetics appear to be inversely related to the degree of plasma protein binding , because only the free , unbound drug is available for placental transfer .
MARCAINE with a high protein binding capacity ( 95 % ) has a low fetal / maternal ratio ( 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 ) .
The extent of placental transfer is also determined by the degree of ionization and lipid solubility of the drug .
Lipid soluble , nonionized drugs readily enter the fetal blood from the maternal circulation .
Depending upon the route of administration , local anesthetics are distributed to some extent to all body tissues , with high concentrations found in highly perfused organs such as the liver , lungs , heart , and brain .
Pharmacokinetic studies on the plasma profile of MARCAINE after direct intravenous injection suggest a three - compartment open model .
The first compartment is represented by the rapid intravascular distribution of the drug .
The second compartment represents the equilibration of the drug throughout the highly perfused organs such as the brain , myocardium , lungs , kidneys , and liver .
The third compartment represents an equilibration of the drug with poorly perfused tissues , such as muscle and fat .
The elimination of drug from tissue distribution depends largely upon the ability of binding sites in the circulation to carry it to the liver where it is metabolized .
After injection of MARCAINE for caudal , epidural , or peripheral nerve block in man , peak levels of bupivacaine in the blood are reached in 30 to 45 minutes , followed by a decline to insignificant levels during the next three to six hours .
Various pharmacokinetic parameters of the local anesthetics can be significantly altered by the presence of hepatic or renal disease , factors affecting urinary pH , renal blood flow , the route of drug administration , and the age of the patient .
The half - life of MARCAINE in adults is 2 . 7 hours and in neonates 8 . 1 hours .
In clinical studies , elderly patients reached the maximal spread of analgesia and maximal motor blockade more rapidly than younger patients .
Elderly patients also exhibited higher peak plasma concentrations following administration of this product .
The total plasma clearance was decreased in these patients .
Amide - type local anesthetics such as MARCAINE are metabolized primarily in the liver via conjugation with glucuronic acid .
Patients with hepatic disease , especially those with severe hepatic disease , may be more susceptible to the potential toxicities of the amide - type local anesthetics .
Pipecoloxylidine is the major metabolite of MARCAINE .
The kidney is the main excretory organ for most local anesthetics and their metabolites .
Urinary excretion is affected by urinary perfusion and factors affecting urinary pH . Only 6 % of bupivacaine is excreted unchanged in the urine .
When administered in recommended doses and concentrations , MARCAINE does not ordinarily produce irritation or tissue damage and does not cause methemoglobinemia .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE MARCAINE is indicated for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery , dental and oral surgery procedures , diagnostic and therapeutic procedures , and for obstetrical procedures .
Only the 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % concentrations are indicated for obstetrical anesthesia .
( See WARNINGS . )
Experience with nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients is not sufficient to recommend use of 0 . 75 % concentration of MARCAINE in these patients .
MARCAINE is not recommended for intravenous regional anesthesia ( Bier Block ) .
See WARNINGS .
The routes of administration and indicated MARCAINE concentrations are : • local infiltration 0 . 25 % • peripheral nerve block 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % • retrobulbar block 0 . 75 % • sympathetic block 0 . 25 % • lumbar epidural 0 . 25 % , 0 . 5 % , and 0 . 75 % ( 0 . 75 % not for obstetrical anesthesia ) • caudal 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for additional information ) .
Standard textbooks should be consulted to determine the accepted procedures and techniques for the administration of MARCAINE .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MARCAINE is contraindicated in obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia .
Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death .
MARCAINE is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to it or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide - type or to other components of MARCAINE solutions .
WARNINGS THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION OF MARCAINE IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR OBSTETRICAL ANESTHESIA .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF CARDIAC ARREST WITH DIFFICULT RESUSCITATION OR DEATH DURING USE OF MARCAINE FOR EPIDURAL ANESTHESIA IN OBSTETRICAL PATIENTS .
IN MOST CASES , THIS HAS FOLLOWED USE OF THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION .
RESUSCITATION HAS BEEN DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE DESPITE APPARENTLY ADEQUATE PREPARATION AND APPROPRIATE MANAGEMENT .
CARDIAC ARREST HAS OCCURRED AFTER CONVULSIONS RESULTING FROM SYSTEMIC TOXICITY , PRESUMABLY FOLLOWING UNINTENTIONAL INTRAVASCULAR INJECTION .
THE 0 . 75 % CONCENTRATION SHOULD BE RESERVED FOR SURGICAL PROCEDURES WHERE A HIGH DEGREE OF MUSCLE RELAXATION AND PROLONGED EFFECT ARE NECESSARY .
LOCAL ANESTHETICS SHOULD ONLY BE EMPLOYED BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE - RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED , AND THEN ONLY AFTER INSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN , OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS , CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , AND THE PERSONNEL RESOURCES NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES .
( See also ADVERSE REACTIONS , PRECAUTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE . )
DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE - RELATED TOXICITY , UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE , AND / OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS , CARDIAC ARREST AND , POSSIBLY , DEATH .
Local anesthetic solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives , i . e . , those supplied in multiple - dose vials , should not be used for epidural or caudal anesthesia because safety has not been established with regard to intrathecal injection , either intentionally or unintentionally , of such preservatives .
Intra - articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use , and there have been post - marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions .
The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint ; cases of gleno - humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra - articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours .
There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings .
The time of onset of symptoms , such as joint pain , stiffness and loss of motion can be variable , but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery .
Currently , there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis ; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement .
It is essential that aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid ( where applicable ) be done prior to injecting any local anesthetic , both the original dose and all subsequent doses , to avoid intravascular or subarachnoid injection .
However , a negative aspiration does not ensure against an intravascular or subarachnoid injection .
Until further experience is gained in pediatric patients younger than 12 years , administration of MARCAINE in this age group is not recommended .
Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with MARCAINE cannot be recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures .
There have been reports of cardiac arrest and death during the use of MARCAINE for intravenous regional anesthesia ( Bier Block ) .
Information on safe dosages and techniques of administration of MARCAINE in this procedure is lacking .
Therefore , MARCAINE is not recommended for use in this technique .
Single - dose ampuls and single - dose vials of MARCAINE without epinephrine do not contain sodium metabisulfite .
PRECAUTIONS General : The safety and effectiveness of local anesthetics depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
Resuscitative equipment , oxygen , and other resuscitative drugs should be available for immediate use ( See WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
During major regional nerve blocks , the patient should have intravenous fluids running via an indwelling catheter to assure a functioning intravenous pathway .
The lowest dosage of local anesthetic that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
The rapid injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution should be avoided and fractional ( incremental ) doses should be used when feasible .
Epidural Anesthesia : During epidural administration of MARCAINE , 0 . 5 % and 0 . 75 % solutions should be administered in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection .
Injections should be made slowly , with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection .
Syringe aspirations should also be performed before and during each supplemental injection in continuous ( intermittent ) catheter techniques .
An intravascular injection is still possible even if aspirations for blood are negative .
During the administration of epidural anesthesia , it is recommended that a test dose be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given .
When using a " continuous " catheter technique , test doses should be given prior to both the original and all reinforcing doses , because plastic tubing in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura .
The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds .
Therefore , following the test dose , the heart rate should be monitored for a heart rate increase .
Patients on beta - blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate , but blood pressure monitoring can detect a transient rise in systolic blood pressure .
The test dose should also contain 10 mg to 15 mg of MARCAINE or an equivalent amount of another local anesthetic to detect an unintended intrathecal administration .
This will be evidenced within a few minutes by signs of spinal block ( e . g . , decreased sensation of the buttocks , paresis of the legs , or , in the sedated patient , absent knee jerk ) .
Injection of repeated doses of local anesthetics may cause significant increases in plasma levels with each repeated dose due to slow accumulation of the drug or its metabolites , or to slow metabolic degradation .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients and acutely ill patients should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical status .
Local anesthetics should also be used with caution in patients with hypotension or heartblock .
Careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory ( adequacy of ventilation ) vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness should be performed after each local anesthetic injection .
It should be kept in mind at such times that restlessness , anxiety , incoherent speech , lightheadedness , numbness and tingling of the mouth and lips , metallic taste , tinnitus , dizziness , blurred vision , tremors , twitching , depression , or drowsiness may be early warning signs of central nervous system toxicity .
Local anesthetic solutions containing a vasoconstrictor should be used cautiously and in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits , nose , external ear , or penis .
Patients with hypertensive vascular disease may exhibit exaggerated vasoconstrictor response .
Ischemic injury or necrosis may result .
Because amide - local anesthetics such as MARCAINE are metabolized by the liver , these drugs , especially repeat doses , should be used cautiously in patients with hepatic disease .
Patients with severe hepatic disease , because of their inability to metabolize local anesthetics normally , are at a greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations .
Local anesthetics should also be used with caution in patients with impaired cardiovascular function because they may be less able to compensate for functional changes associated with the prolongation of AV conduction produced by these drugs .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Because it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and because the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure , and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and prompt institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( Consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Use in Head and Neck Area : Small doses of local anesthetics injected into the head and neck area , including retrobulbar , dental , and stellate ganglion blocks , may produce adverse reactions similar to systemic toxicity seen with unintentional intravascular injections of larger doses .
The injection procedures require the utmost care .
Confusion , convulsions , respiratory depression , and / or respiratory arrest , and cardiovascular stimulation or depression have been reported .
These reactions may be due to intra - arterial injection of the local anesthetic with retrograde flow to the cerebral circulation .
They may also be due to puncture of the dural sheath of the optic nerve during retrobulbar block with diffusion of any local anesthetic along the subdural space to the midbrain .
Patients receiving these blocks should have their circulation and respiration monitored and be constantly observed .
Resuscitative equipment and personnel for treating adverse reactions should be immediately available .
Dosage recommendations should not be exceeded ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Use in Ophthalmic Surgery : Clinicians who perform retrobulbar blocks should be aware that there have been reports of respiratory arrest following local anesthetic injection .
Prior to retrobulbar block , as with all other regional procedures , the immediate availability of equipment , drugs , and personnel to manage respiratory arrest or depression , convulsions , and cardiac stimulation or depression should be assured ( see also WARNINGS and Use In Head and Neck Area , above ) .
As with other anesthetic procedures , patients should be constantly monitored following ophthalmic blocks for signs of these adverse reactions , which may occur following relatively low total doses .
Information for Patients : When appropriate , patients should be informed in advance that they may experience temporary loss of sensation and motor activity , usually in the lower half of the body , following proper administration of caudal or epidural anesthesia .
Also , when appropriate , the physician should discuss other information including adverse reactions in the package insert of MARCAINE .
Patients receiving dental injections of MARCAINE should be cautioned not to chew solid foods or test the anesthetized area by biting or probing until anesthesia has worn off ( up to 7 hours ) .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions : The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe , prolonged hypertension .
Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided .
In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary , careful patient monitoring is essential .
Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and of ergot - type oxytocic drugs may cause severe , persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bupivacaine hydrochloride have not been conducted .
The mutagenic potential and the effect on fertility of bupivacaine hydrochloride have not been determined .
Pregnancy : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
MARCAINE should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Bupivacaine hydrochloride produced developmental toxicity when administered subcutaneously to pregnant rats and rabbits at clinically relevant doses .
This does not exclude the use of MARCAINE at term for obstetrical anesthesia or analgesia ( See Labor and Delivery ) .
Bupivacaine hydrochloride was administered subcutaneously to rats at doses of 4 . 4 , 13 . 3 , & 40 mg / kg and to rabbits at doses of 1 . 3 , 5 . 8 , & 22 . 2 mg / kg during the period of organogenesis ( implantation to closure of the hard palate ) .
The high doses are comparable to the daily maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 400 mg / day on a mg / m2 body surface area ( BSA ) basis .
No embryo - fetal effects were observed in rats at the high dose which caused increased maternal lethality .
An increase in embryo - fetal deaths was observed in rabbits at the high dose in the absence of maternal toxicity with the fetal No Observed Adverse Effect Level representing approximately 1 / 5 th the MRHD on a BSA basis .
In a rat pre - and post - natal development study ( dosing from implantation through weaning ) conducted at subcutaneous doses of 4 . 4 , 13 . 3 , & 40 mg / kg , decreased pup survival was observed at the high dose .
The high dose is comparable to the daily MRHD of 400 mg / day on a BSA basis .
Labor and Delivery : SEE BOXED WARNING REGARDING OBSTETRICAL USE OF 0 . 75 % MARCAINE .
MARCAINE is contraindicated for obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia .
Local anesthetics rapidly cross the placenta , and when used for epidural , caudal , or pudendal block anesthesia , can cause varying degrees of maternal , fetal , and neonatal toxicity ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
The incidence and degree of toxicity depend upon the procedure performed , the type , and amount of drug used , and the technique of drug administration .
Adverse reactions in the parturient , fetus , and neonate involve alterations of the central nervous system , peripheral vascular tone , and cardiac function .
Maternal hypotension has resulted from regional anesthesia .
Local anesthetics produce vasodilation by blocking sympathetic nerves .
Elevating the patient ' s legs and positioning her on her left side will help prevent decreases in blood pressure .
The fetal heart rate also should be monitored continuously and electronic fetal monitoring is highly advisable .
Epidural , caudal , or pudendal anesthesia may alter the forces of parturition through changes in uterine contractility or maternal expulsive efforts .
Epidural anesthesia has been reported to prolong the second stage of labor by removing the parturient ' s reflex urge to bear down or by interfering with motor function .
The use of obstetrical anesthesia may increase the need for forceps assistance .
The use of some local anesthetic drug products during labor and delivery may be followed by diminished muscle strength and tone for the first day or two of life .
This has not been reported with bupivacaine .
It is extremely important to avoid aortocaval compression by the gravid uterus during administration of regional block to parturients .
To do this , the patient must be maintained in the left lateral decubitus position or a blanket roll or sandbag may be placed beneath the right hip and gravid uterus displaced to the left .
Nursing Mothers : Bupivacaine has been reported to be excreted in human milk suggesting that the nursing infant could be theoretically exposed to a dose of the drug .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from bupivacaine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or not administer bupivacaine , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Until further experience is gained in pediatric patients younger than 12 years , administration of MARCAINE in this age group is not recommended .
Continuous infusions of bupivacaine in children have been reported to result in high systemic levels of bupivacaine and seizures ; high plasma levels may also be associated with cardiovascular abnormalities ( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Geriatric Use : Patients over 65 years , particularly those with hypertension , may be at increased risk for developing hypotension while undergoing anesthesia with MARCAINE ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Elderly patients may require lower doses of MARCAINE ( See PRECAUTIONS , Epidural Anesthesia and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In clinical studies , differences in various pharmacokinetic parameters have been observed between elderly and younger patients ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
This product is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions to MARCAINE are characteristic of those associated with other amide - type local anesthetics .
A major cause of adverse reactions to this group of drugs is excessive plasma levels , which may be due to overdosage , unintentional intravascular injection , or slow metabolic degradation .
The most commonly encountered acute adverse experiences which demand immediate counter - measures are related to the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system .
These adverse experiences are generally dose related and due to high plasma levels which may result from overdosage , rapid absorption from the injection site , diminished tolerance , or from unintentional intravascular injection of the local anesthetic solution .
In addition to systemic dose - related toxicity , unintentional subarachnoid injection of drug during the intended performance of caudal or lumbar epidural block or nerve blocks near the vertebral column ( especially in the head and neck region ) may result in underventilation or apnea ( " Total or High Spinal " ) .
Also , hypotension due to loss of sympathetic tone and respiratory paralysis or underventilation due to cephalad extension of the motor level of anesthesia may occur .
This may lead to secondary cardiac arrest if untreated .
Patients over 65 years , particularly those with hypertension , may be at increased risk for experiencing the hypotensive effects of MARCAINE .
Factors influencing plasma protein binding , such as acidosis , systemic diseases which alter protein production , or competition of other drugs for protein binding sites , may diminish individual tolerance .
Central Nervous System Reactions : These are characterized by excitation and / or depression .
Restlessness , anxiety , dizziness , tinnitus , blurred vision , or tremors may occur , possibly proceeding to convulsions .
However , excitement may be transient or absent , with depression being the first manifestation of an adverse reaction .
This may quickly be followed by drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Other central nervous system effects may be nausea , vomiting , chills , and constriction of the pupils .
The incidence of convulsions associated with the use of local anesthetics varies with the procedure used and the total dose administered .
In a survey of studies of epidural anesthesia , overt toxicity progressing to convulsions occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of local anesthetic administrations .
Cardiovascular System Reactions : High doses or unintentional intravascular injection may lead to high plasma levels and related depression of the myocardium , decreased cardiac output , heartblock , hypotension , bradycardia , ventricular arrhythmias , including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation , and cardiac arrest ( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Allergic : Allergic - type reactions are rare and may occur as a result of sensitivity to the local anesthetic or to other formulation ingredients , such as the antimicrobial preservative methylparaben contained in multiple - dose vials .
These reactions are characterized by signs such as urticaria , pruritus , erythema , angioneurotic edema ( including laryngeal edema ) , tachycardia , sneezing , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , syncope , excessive sweating , elevated temperature , and possibly , anaphylactoid - like symptomatology ( including severe hypotension ) .
Cross sensitivity among members of the amide - type local anesthetic group has been reported .
The usefulness of screening for sensitivity has not been definitely established .
Neurologic : The incidences of adverse neurologic reactions associated with the use of local anesthetics may be related to the total dose of local anesthetic administered and are also dependent upon the particular drug used , the route of administration , and the physical status of the patient .
Many of these effects may be related to local anesthetic techniques , with or without a contribution from the drug .
In the practice of caudal or lumbar epidural block , occasional unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space by the catheter or needle may occur .
Subsequent adverse effects may depend partially on the amount of drug administered intrathecally and the physiological and physical effects of a dural puncture .
A high spinal is characterized by paralysis of the legs , loss of consciousness , respiratory paralysis , and bradycardia .
Neurologic effects following epidural or caudal anesthesia may include spinal block of varying magnitude ( including high or total spinal block ) ; hypotension secondary to spinal block ; urinary retention ; fecal and urinary incontinence ; loss of perineal sensation and sexual function ; persistent anesthesia , paresthesia , weakness , paralysis of the lower extremities and loss of sphincter control all of which may have slow , incomplete , or no recovery ; headache ; backache ; septic meningitis ; meningismus ; slowing of labor ; increased incidence of forceps delivery ; and cranial nerve palsies due to traction on nerves from loss of cerebrospinal fluid .
Neurologic effects following other procedures or routes of administration may include persistent anesthesia , paresthesia , weakness , paralysis , all of which may have slow , incomplete , or no recovery .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics or to unintended subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic solution ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of Local Anesthetic Emergencies : The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of systemic toxic reactions , as well as underventilation or apnea due to unintentional subarachnoid injection of drug solution , consists of immediate attention to the establishment and maintenance of a patent airway and effective assisted or controlled ventilation with 100 % oxygen with a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
This may prevent convulsions if they have not already occurred .
If necessary , use drugs to control the convulsions .
A 50 mg to 100 mg bolus intravenous injection of succinylcholine will paralyze the patient without depressing the central nervous or cardiovascular systems and facilitate ventilation .
A bolus intravenous dose of 5 mg to 10 mg of diazepam or 50 mg to 100 mg of thiopental will permit ventilation and counteract central nervous system stimulation , but these drugs also depress central nervous system , respiratory , and cardiac function , add to postictal depression and may result in apnea .
Intravenous barbiturates , anticonvulsant agents , or muscle relaxants should only be administered by those familiar with their use .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated .
Endotracheal intubation , employing drugs and techniques familiar to the clinician , may be indicated after initial administration of oxygen by mask if difficulty is encountered in the maintenance of a patent airway , or if prolonged ventilatory support ( assisted or controlled ) is indicated .
Recent clinical data from patients experiencing local anesthetic - induced convulsions demonstrated rapid development of hypoxia , hypercarbia , and acidosis with bupivacaine within a minute of the onset of convulsions .
These observations suggest that oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production are greatly increased during local anesthetic convulsions and emphasize the importance of immediate and effective ventilation with oxygen which may avoid cardiac arrest .
If not treated immediately , convulsions with simultaneous hypoxia , hypercarbia , and acidosis plus myocardial depression from the direct effects of the local anesthetic may result in cardiac arrhythmias , bradycardia , asystole , ventricular fibrillation , or cardiac arrest .
Respiratory abnormalities , including apnea , may occur .
Underventilation or apnea due to unintentional subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic solution may produce these same signs and also lead to cardiac arrest if ventilatory support is not instituted .
If cardiac arrest should occur , successful outcome may require prolonged resuscitative efforts .
The supine position is dangerous in pregnant women at term because of aortocaval compression by the gravid uterus .
Therefore during treatment of systemic toxicity , maternal hypotension or fetal bradycardia following regional block , the parturient should be maintained in the left lateral decubitus position if possible , or manual displacement of the uterus off the great vessels be accomplished .
The mean seizure dosage of bupivacaine in rhesus monkeys was found to be 4 . 4 mg / kg with mean arterial plasma concentration of 4 . 5 mcg / mL .
The intravenous and subcutaneous LD50 in mice is 6 mg / kg to 8 mg / kg and 38 mg / kg to 54 mg / kg respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of any local anesthetic administered varies with the anesthetic procedure , the area to be anesthetized , the vascularity of the tissues , the number of neuronal segments to be blocked , the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required , the duration of anesthesia desired , individual tolerance , and the physical condition of the patient .
The smallest dose and concentration required to produce the desired result should be administered .
Dosages of MARCAINE should be reduced for elderly and / or debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and / or liver disease .
The rapid injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution should be avoided and fractional ( incremental ) doses should be used when feasible .
For specific techniques and procedures , refer to standard textbooks .
There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra - articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures .
MARCAINE is not approved for this use ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In recommended doses , MARCAINE produces complete sensory block , but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations .
0 . 25 % when used for caudal , epidural , or peripheral nerve block , produces incomplete motor block .
Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important , or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently .
Onset of action may be slower than with the 0 . 5 % or 0 . 75 % solutions .
0 . 5 % provides motor blockade for caudal , epidural , or nerve block , but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential .
0 . 75 % produces complete motor block .
Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation , and for retrobulbar anesthesia .
Not for obstetrical anesthesia .
The duration of anesthesia with MARCAINE is such that for most indications , a single dose is sufficient .
Maximum dosage limit must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient , as well as the usual rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site . Most experience to date is with single doses of MARCAINE up to 175 mg without epinephrine ; more or less drug may be used depending on individualization of each case .
These doses may be repeated up to once every three hours .
In clinical studies to date , total daily doses have been up to 400 mg .
Until further experience is gained , this dose should not be exceeded in 24 hours .
The dosages in Table 1 have generally proved satisfactory and are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult .
These dosages should be reduced for elderly or debilitated patients .
Until further experience is gained , MARCAINE is not recommended for pediatric patients younger than 12 years .
MARCAINE is contraindicated for obstetrical paracervical blocks , and is not recommended for intravenous regional anesthesia ( Bier Block ) .
Use in Epidural Anesthesia : During epidural administration of MARCAINE , 0 . 5 % and 0 . 75 % solutions should be administered in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection .
In obstetrics , only the 0 . 5 % and 0 . 25 % concentrations should be used ; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0 . 5 % solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended . Use only the single - dose ampuls and single - dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia .
Unused portions of solution not containing preservatives , i . e . , those supplied in single - dose ampuls and single - dose vials , should be discarded following initial use .
This product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Solutions which are discolored or which contain particulate matter should not be administered .
Table 1 .
Recommended Concentrations and Doses of MARCAINE Type of Block Conc .
Each Dose ( mL ) ( mg ) Motor Block1 Local infiltration 0 . 25 % 4 up to max .
up to max .
_ Epidural 0 . 75 % 2 , 4 10 - 20 75 - 150 complete 0 . 5 % 4 10 - 20 50 - 100 moderate to complete 0 . 25 % 4 10 - 20 25 - 50 partial to moderate Caudal 0 . 5 % 4 15 - 30 75 - 150 moderate to complete 0 . 25 % 4 15 - 30 37 . 5 - 75 moderate Peripheral nerves 0 . 5 % 4 5 to max .
25 to max .
moderate to complete 0 . 25 % 4 5 to max .
12 . 5 to max .
moderate to complete Retrobulbar3 0 . 75 % 4 2 - 4 15 - 30 complete Sympathetic 0 . 25 % 20 - 50 50 - 125 _ 1 With continuous ( intermittent ) techniques , repeat doses increase the degree of motor block .
The first repeat dose of 0 . 5 % may produce complete motor block .
Intercostal nerve block with 0 . 25 % may also produce complete motor block for intra - abdominal surgery .
2 For single - dose use , not for intermittent epidural technique .
Not for obstetrical anesthesia .
3 See PRECAUTIONS .
4 Solutions with or without epinephrine .
HOW SUPPLIED These solutions are not for spinal anesthesia .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
MARCAINE ― Solutions of MARCAINE that do not contain epinephrine may be autoclaved .
Autoclave at 15 - pound pressure , 121 ° C ( 250 ° F ) for 15 minutes .
Unit of Sale Concentration Each 0 . 5 % Contains 5 mg bupivacaine hydrochloride per mL .
NDC 0409 - 1560 - 10 Tray of 10 50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 1560 - 18 Single - dose vial Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1178 - 1 . 0 Revised : 11 / 2017 KENALOG ® - 40 INJECTION ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , USP ) NOT FOR USE IN NEONATES CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL For Intramuscular or Intra - articular Use Only NOT FOR INTRAVENOUS , INTRADERMAL , INTRAOCULAR , EPIDURAL , OR INTRATHECAL USE DESCRIPTION Kenalog ® - 40 Injection ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , USP ) is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory action .
THIS FORMULATION IS SUITABLE FOR INTRAMUSCULAR AND INTRA - ARTICULAR USE ONLY .
THIS FORMULATION IS NOT FOR INTRADERMAL INJECTION .
Each mL of the sterile aqueous suspension provides 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide , with 0 . 66 % sodium chloride for isotonicity , 0 . 99 % ( w / v ) benzyl alcohol as a preservative , 0 . 63 % carboxymethylcellulose sodium , and 0 . 04 % polysorbate 80 .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be present to adjust pH to 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 .
At the time of manufacture , the air in the container is replaced by nitrogen .
The chemical name for triamcinolone acetonide is 9 - Fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triamcinolone acetonide occurs as a white to cream - colored , crystalline powder having not more than a slight odor and is practically insoluble in water and very soluble in alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Glucocorticoids , naturally occurring and synthetic , are adrenocortical steroids that are readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Naturally occurring glucocorticoids ( hydrocortisone and cortisone ) , which also have salt - retaining properties , are used as replacement therapy in adrenocortical deficiency states .
Synthetic analogs such as triamcinolone are primarily used for their anti - inflammatory effects in disorders of many organ systems .
Kenalog - 40 Injection has an extended duration of effect which may be sustained over a period of several weeks .
Studies indicate that following a single intramuscular dose of 60 mg to 100 mg of triamcinolone acetonide , adrenal suppression occurs within 24 to 48 hours and then gradually returns to normal , usually in 30 to 40 days .
This finding correlates closely with the extended duration of therapeutic action achieved with the drug .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intramuscular Where oral therapy is not feasible , injectable corticosteroid therapy , including Kenalog - 40 Injection ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , USP ) is indicated for intramuscular use as follows : Allergic states : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma , atopic dermatitis , contact dermatitis , drug hypersensitivity reactions , perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis , serum sickness , transfusion reactions .
Dermatologic diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis , exfoliative erythroderma , mycosis fungoides , pemphigus , severe erythema multiforme ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) .
Endocrine disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency ( hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice ; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable ; in infancy , mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance ) , congenital adrenal hyperplasia , hypercalcemia associated with cancer , nonsuppurative thyroiditis .
Gastrointestinal diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis and ulcerative colitis .
Hematologic disorders : Acquired ( autoimmune ) hemolytic anemia , Diamond - Blackfan anemia , pure red cell aplasia , selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia .
Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement , tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy .
Neoplastic diseases : For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas .
Nervous system : Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis ; cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy .
Ophthalmic diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia , temporal arteritis , uveitis , and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids .
Renal diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus .
Respiratory diseases : Berylliosis , fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy , idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias , symptomatic sarcoidosis .
Rheumatic disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short - term administration ( to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation ) in acute gouty arthritis ; acute rheumatic carditis ; ankylosing spondylitis ; psoriatic arthritis ; rheumatoid arthritis , including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( selected cases may require low - dose maintenance therapy ) .
For the treatment of dermatomyositis , polymyositis , and systemic lupus erythematosus .
Intra - Articular The intra - articular or soft tissue administration of Kenalog - 40 Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short - term administration ( to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation ) in acute gouty arthritis , acute and subacute bursitis , acute nonspecific tenosynovitis , epicondylitis , rheumatoid arthritis , synovitis , or osteoarthritis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Kenalog - 40 Injection is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product ( see WARNINGS : General ) .
Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura .
WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events , some resulting in death , have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids ( see WARNINGS : Neurologic ) .
Specific events reported include , but are not limited to , spinal cord infarction , paraplegia , quadriplegia , cortical blindness , and stroke .
These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy .
The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established , and corticosteroids are not approved for this use .
General Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity ( hypotension , metabolic acidosis ) , particularly in neonates , and an increased incidence of kernicterus , particularly in small preterm infants .
There have been rare reports of deaths , primarily in preterm infants , associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol .
The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol .
Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered .
The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative , the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
Rare instances of anaphylaxis have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Cases of serious anaphylaxis , including death , have been reported in individuals receiving triamcinolone acetonide injection , regardless of the route of administration .
Because Kenalog - 40 Injection ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , USP ) is a suspension , it should not be administered intravenously .
Unless a deep intramuscular injection is given , local atrophy is likely to occur .
( For recommendations on injection techniques , see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Due to the significantly higher incidence of local atrophy when the material is injected into the deltoid area , this injection site should be avoided in favor of the gluteal area .
Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before , during , and after the stressful situation .
Kenalog - 40 Injection is a long - acting preparation , and is not suitable for use in acute stress situations .
To avoid drug - induced adrenal insufficiency , supportive dosage may be required in times of stress ( such as trauma , surgery , or severe illness ) both during treatment with Kenalog - 40 Injection and for a year afterwards .
Results from one multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate , an intravenous corticosteroid , showed an increase in early ( at 2 weeks ) and late ( at 6 months ) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment .
High doses of systemic corticosteroids , including Kenalog - 40 Injection , should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury .
Cardio - Renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure , salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when they are used in large doses .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion .
Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction ; therefore , therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients .
Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients .
Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage .
Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals .
There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used .
Infection with any pathogen ( viral , bacterial , fungal , protozoan , or helminthic ) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents .
These infections may be mild to severe .
With increasing doses of corticosteroids , the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases .
Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection .
Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions .
There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions : Amphotericin B injection and potassium - depleting agents ) .
Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens , including those caused by Amoeba , Candida , Cryptococcus , Mycobacterium , Nocardia , Pneumocystis , or Toxoplasma .
It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea .
Similarly , corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides ( threadworm ) infestation .
In such patients , corticosteroid - induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration , often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram - negative septicemia .
Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria .
Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in patients with active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti - tuberculosis regimen .
If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity , close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur .
During prolonged corticosteroid therapy , these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis .
Vaccination Administration of live or live , attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids .
Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered .
However , the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted .
Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy , e . g , for Addison ’ s disease .
Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids .
In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chicken pox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information . )
If chicken pox develops , treatment with antiviral agents should be considered .
Neurologic Epidural and intrathecal administration of this product is not recommended .
Reports of serious medical events , including death , have been associated with epidural and intrathecal routes of corticosteroid administration ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Gastrointestinal and Neurologic / Psychiatric ) .
Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts , glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves , and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria , fungi , or viruses .
The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes .
Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex .
Adequate studies to demonstrate the safety of Kenalog Injection use by intraturbinal , subconjunctival , sub - Tenons , retrobulbar , and intraocular ( intravitreal ) injections have not been performed .
Endophthalmitis , eye inflammation , increased intraocular pressure , and visual disturbances including vision loss have been reported with intravitreal administration .
Administration of Kenalog Injection intraocularly or into the nasal turbinates is not recommended .
Intraocular injection of corticosteroid formulations containing benzyl alcohol , such as Kenalog Injection , is not recommended because of potential toxicity from the benzyl alcohol .
PRECAUTIONS General This product , like many other steroid formulations , is sensitive to heat .
Therefore , it should not be autoclaved when it is desirable to sterilize the exterior of the vial .
The lowest possible dose of corticosteroid should be used to control the condition under treatment .
When reduction in dosage is possible , the reduction should be gradual .
Since complications of treatment with glucocorticoids are dependent on the size of the dose and the duration of treatment , a risk / benefit decision must be made in each individual case as to dose and duration of treatment and as to whether daily or intermittent therapy should be used .
Kaposi ’ s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy , most often for chronic conditions .
Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement .
Cardio - Renal As sodium retention with resultant edema and potassium loss may occur in patients receiving corticosteroids , these agents should be used with caution in patients with congestive heart failure , hypertension , or renal insufficiency .
Endocrine Drug - induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage .
This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy ; therefore , in any situation of stress occurring during that period , hormone therapy should be reinstituted .
Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired , salt and / or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently .
Gastrointestinal Steroids should be used with caution in active or latent peptic ulcers , diverticulitis , fresh intestinal anastomoses , and nonspecific ulcerative colitis , since they may increase the risk of a perforation .
Signs of peritoneal irritation following gastrointestinal perforation in patients receiving corticosteroids may be minimal or absent .
There is an enhanced effect of corticosteroids in patients with cirrhosis .
Intra - Articular and Soft Tissue Administration Intra - articularly injected corticosteroids may be systemically absorbed .
Appropriate examination of any joint fluid present is necessary to exclude a septic process .
A marked increase in pain accompanied by local swelling , further restriction of joint motion , fever , and malaise are suggestive of septic arthritis .
If this complication occurs and the diagnosis of sepsis is confirmed , appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be instituted .
Injection of a steroid into an infected site is to be avoided .
Local injection of a steroid into a previously infected joint is not usually recommended .
Corticosteroid injection into unstable joints is generally not recommended .
Intra - articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Musculoskeletal ) .
Musculoskeletal Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption both through their effect on calcium regulation ( i . e , decreasing absorption and increasing excretion ) and inhibition of osteoblast function .
This , together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone secondary to an increase in protein catabolism , and reduced sex hormone production , may lead to inhibition of bone growth in pediatric patients and the development of osteoporosis at any age .
Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis ( ie , postmenopausal women ) before initiating corticosteroid therapy .
Neuro - Psychiatric Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis , they do not show that they affect the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease .
The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids , most often occurring in patients with disorders of neuromuscular transmission ( eg , myasthenia gravis ) , or in patients receiving concomitant therapy with neuromuscular blocking drugs ( eg , pancuronium ) .
This acute myopathy is generalized , may involve ocular and respiratory muscles , and may result in quadriparesis .
Elevation of creatinine kinase may occur .
Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping corticosteroids may require weeks to years .
Psychiatric derangements may appear when corticosteroids are used , ranging from euphoria , insomnia , mood swings , personality changes , and severe depression to frank psychotic manifestations .
Also , existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids .
Ophthalmic Intraocular pressure may become elevated in some individuals .
If steroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks , intraocular pressure should be monitored .
Information for Patients Patients should be warned not to discontinue the use of corticosteroids abruptly or without medical supervision , to advise any medical attendants that they are taking corticosteroids , and to seek medical advice at once should they develop fever or other signs of infection .
Persons who are on corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles .
Patients should also be advised that if they are exposed , medical advice should be sought without delay .
Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid - induced adrenal suppression .
Amphotericin B injection and potassium - depleting agents : When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium - depleting agents ( ie , amphotericin B , diuretics ) , patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia .
There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure .
Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance .
Anticholinesterases : Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis .
If possible , anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy .
Anticoagulants , oral : Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin , although there have been some conflicting reports .
Therefore , coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect .
Antidiabetics : Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations , dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required .
Antitubercular drugs : Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased .
Cholestyramine : Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids .
Cyclosporine : Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently .
Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use .
Digitalis glycosides : Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia .
Estrogens , including oral contraceptives : Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids , thereby increasing their effect .
Hepatic enzyme inducers ( eg , barbiturates , phenytoin , carbamazepine , rifampin ) : Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased .
Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60 % , leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Concomitant use of aspirin ( or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects .
Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia .
The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids .
Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests .
Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response .
Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines .
Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible ( see WARNINGS : Infections : Vaccination ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether corticosteroids have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis .
Steroids may increase or decrease motility and number of spermatozoa in some patients .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in many species when given in doses equivalent to the human dose .
Animal studies in which corticosteroids have been given to pregnant mice , rats , and rabbits have yielded an increased incidence of cleft palate in the offspring .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Infants born to mothers who have received corticosteroids during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use This product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol , a component of this product , has been associated with serious adverse events and death , particularly in pediatric patients .
The “ gasping syndrome ” ( characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine ) has been associated with benzyl alcohol dosages > 99 mg / kg / day in neonates and low - birth - weight neonates .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “ gasping syndrome , ” the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birth - weight infants , as well as patients receiving high dosages , may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Practitioners administering this and other medications containing benzyl alcohol should consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources .
The efficacy and safety of corticosteroids in the pediatric population are based on the well - established course of effect of corticosteroids which is similar in pediatric and adult populations .
Published studies provide evidence of efficacy and safety in pediatric patients for the treatment of nephrotic syndrome ( > 2 years of age ) , and aggressive lymphomas and leukemias ( > 1 month of age ) .
Other indications for pediatric use of corticosteroids , eg , severe asthma and wheezing , are based on adequate and well - controlled trials conducted in adults , on the premises that the course of the diseases and their pathophysiology are considered to be substantially similar in both populations .
The adverse effects of corticosteroids in pediatric patients are similar to those in adults ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Like adults , pediatric patients should be carefully observed with frequent measurements of blood pressure , weight , height , intraocular pressure , and clinical evaluation for the presence of infection , psychosocial disturbances , thromboembolism , peptic ulcers , cataracts , and osteoporosis .
Pediatric patients who are treated with corticosteroids by any route , including systemically administered corticosteroids , may experience a decrease in their growth velocity .
This negative impact of corticosteroids on growth has been observed at low systemic doses and in the absence of laboratory evidence of HPA axis suppression ( ie , cosyntropin stimulation and basal cortisol plasma levels ) .
Growth velocity may therefore be a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients than some commonly used tests of HPA axis function .
The linear growth of pediatric patients treated with corticosteroids should be monitored , and the potential growth effects of prolonged treatment should be weighed against clinical benefits obtained and the availability of treatment alternatives .
In order to minimize the potential growth effects of corticosteroids , pediatric patients should be titrated to the lowest effective dose .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ( listed alphabetically under each subsection ) The following adverse reactions may be associated with corticosteroid therapy : Allergic reactions : Anaphylaxis including death , angioedema .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , cardiac arrest , cardiac arrhythmias , cardiac enlargement , circulatory collapse , congestive heart failure , fat embolism , hypertension , hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants , myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction ( see WARNINGS ) , pulmonary edema , syncope , tachycardia , thromboembolism , thrombophlebitis , vasculitis .
Dermatologic : Acne , allergic dermatitis , cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy , dry scaly skin , ecchymoses and petechiae , edema , erythema , hyperpigmentation , hypopigmentation , impaired wound healing , increased sweating , lupus erythematosus - like lesions , purpura , rash , sterile abscess , striae , suppressed reactions to skin tests , thin fragile skin , thinning scalp hair , urticaria .
Endocrine : Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance , development of cushingoid state , glycosuria , hirsutism , hypertrichosis , increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes , manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus , menstrual irregularities , secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness ( particularly in times of stress , as in trauma , surgery , or illness ) , suppression of growth in pediatric patients .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances : Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients , fluid retention , hypokalemic alkalosis , potassium loss , sodium retention .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal distention , bowel / bladder dysfunction ( after intrathecal administration [ see WARNINGS : Neurologic ] ) , elevation in serum liver enzyme levels ( usually reversible upon discontinuation ) , hepatomegaly , increased appetite , nausea , pancreatitis , peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage , perforation of the small and large intestine ( particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ) , ulcerative esophagitis .
Metabolic : Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism .
Musculoskeletal : Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads , calcinosis ( following intra - articular or intralesional use ) , Charcot - like arthropathy , loss of muscle mass , muscle weakness , osteoporosis , pathologic fracture of long bones , post injection flare ( following intra - articular use ) , steroid myopathy , tendon rupture , vertebral compression fractures .
Neurologic / Psychiatric : Convulsions , depression , emotional instability , euphoria , headache , increased intracranial pressure with papilledema ( pseudotumor cerebri ) usually following discontinuation of treatment , insomnia , mood swings , neuritis , neuropathy , paresthesia , personality changes , psychiatric disorders , vertigo .
Arachnoiditis , meningitis , paraparesis / paraplegia , and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration .
Spinal cord infarction , paraplegia , quadriplegia , cortical blindness , and stroke ( including brainstem ) have been reported after epidural administration of corticosteroids ( see WARNINGS : Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration and WARNINGS : Neurologic ) .
Ophthalmic : Exophthalmos , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , posterior subcapsular cataracts , rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections .
Other : Abnormal fat deposits , decreased resistance to infection , hiccups , increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa , malaise , moon face , weight gain .
OVERDOSAGE Treatment of acute overdosage is by supportive and symptomatic therapy .
For chronic overdosage in the face of severe disease requiring continuous steroid therapy , the dosage of the corticosteroid may be reduced only temporarily , or alternate day treatment may be introduced .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General NOTE : CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The initial dose of Kenalog - 40 Injection may vary from 2 . 5 mg to 100 mg per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated ( see Dosage section below ) .
However , in certain overwhelming , acute , life - threatening situations , administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages .
IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
After a favorable response is noted , the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached .
Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process , the patient ’ s individual drug responsiveness , and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment .
In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient ’ s condition .
If after long - term therapy the drug is to be stopped , it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly .
Dosage SYSTEMIC The suggested initial dose is 60 mg , injected deeply into the gluteal muscle .
Atrophy of subcutaneous fat may occur if the injection is not properly given .
Dosage is usually adjusted within the range of 40 mg to 80 mg , depending upon patient response and duration of relief .
However , some patients may be well controlled on doses as low as 20 mg or less .
Hay fever or pollen asthma : Patients with hay fever or pollen asthma who are not responding to pollen administration and other conventional therapy may obtain a remission of symptoms lasting throughout the pollen season after a single injection of 40 mg to 100 mg .
In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis , daily doses of 160 mg of triamcinolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for one month are recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Neuro - Psychiatric ) .
In pediatric patients , the initial dose of triamcinolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated .
The range of initial doses is 0 . 11 to 1 . 6 mg / kg / day in 3 or 4 divided doses ( 3 . 2 to 48 mg / m2bsa / day ) .
For the purpose of comparison , the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids : Cortisone , 25 Triamcinolone , 4 Hydrocortisone , 20 Paramethasone , 2 Prednisolone , 5 Betamethasone , 0 . 75 Prednisone , 5 Dexamethasone , 0 . 75 Methylprednisolone , 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds .
When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces , their relative properties may be greatly altered .
LOCAL Intra - articular administration : A single local injection of triamcinolone acetonide is frequently sufficient , but several injections may be needed for adequate relief of symptoms .
Initial dose : 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg for smaller joints and from 5 mg to 15 mg for larger joints , depending on the specific disease entity being treated .
For adults , doses up to 10 mg for smaller areas and up to 40 mg for larger areas have usually been sufficient .
Single injections into several joints , up to a total of 80 mg , have been given .
Administration GENERAL STRICT ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE IS MANDATORY .
The vial should be shaken before use to ensure a uniform suspension .
Prior to withdrawal , the suspension should be inspected for clumping or granular appearance ( agglomeration ) .
An agglomerated product results from exposure to freezing temperatures and should not be used .
After withdrawal , Kenalog - 40 Injection should be injected without delay to prevent settling in the syringe .
Careful technique should be employed to avoid the possibility of entering a blood vessel or introducing infection .
SYSTEMIC For systemic therapy , injection should be made deeply into the gluteal muscle ( see WARNINGS ) .
For adults , a minimum needle length of 1 ½ inches is recommended .
In obese patients , a longer needle may be required .
Use alternative sites for subsequent injections .
LOCAL For treatment of joints , the usual intra - articular injection technique should be followed .
If an excessive amount of synovial fluid is present in the joint , some , but not all , should be aspirated to aid in the relief of pain and to prevent undue dilution of the steroid .
With intra - articular administration , prior use of a local anesthetic may often be desirable .
Care should be taken with this kind of injection , particularly in the deltoid region , to avoid injecting the suspension into the tissues surrounding the site , since this may lead to tissue atrophy .
In treating acute nonspecific tenosynovitis , care should be taken to ensure that the injection of the corticosteroid is made into the tendon sheath rather than the tendon substance .
Epicondylitis may be treated by infiltrating the preparation into the area of greatest tenderness .
HOW SUPPLIED Kenalog ® - 40 Injection ( triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension , USP ) is supplied in vials providing 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide per mL .
40 mg / mL , 1 mL vial NDC 0003 - 0293 - 05 Bristol - Myers Squibb Company Princeton , NJ 08543 USA Product of Spain 1221153A7 Revised : January 2016 Assembled and Distributed by IT3 Medical , LLC 190 E Stacy Rd , Ste 306 - 298 , Allen , TX 75002 For questions or comments : info @ IT3 - Medical . com , www . IT3 - Medical . com Storage Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) , avoid freezing and protect from light .
Do not refrigerate .
MCKESSON ALCOHOL PREP PAD - isopropyl alcohol swab Drug Facts Active ingredient Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Use For preparation of the skin prior to an injection Warnings • For external use only • Flammable , keep away from fire or flame • Do not use with electrocautery procedures • Do not use in the eyes • Do not apply to irritated skin • Stop use if pain , irritation , redness , or swelling occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
• Keep out from reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Open packet • Remove pad • Apply topically as needed to cleanse intended area .
Discard after single use .
Other information • Store at room temperature 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) • Contents sterile in unopened , undamaged package Inactive ingredients purified water CORTAREN CORTICOSTEROID / ANTI - INFLAMMATORY SYSTEM Contents : 1 - 1 mL Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate ( 4 mg / mL ) 1 - 10 mL Marcaine 0 . 5 % 1 - 1 mL Kenalog - 40 ( 40 mg / mL ) 1 - 3 mL Syringe w / 18 - 22 Gauge 1 - 1 / 2 in Needle ( Draw ) 1 - 22 - 27 Gauge 1 - 1 / 2 in Needle ( Administer ) 1 - 3x3 Gauze Sponge Sterile Square 1 - Bandage 1 x 3 in 4 - Alcohol Prep Pads PACKAGING - KIT LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGING - KIT COMPONENTS LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
