Rx only DESCRIPTION Potassium Chloride Oral Solution USP 20 % Sugar Free Each 15 mL ( tablespoonful ) contains 40 mEq of potassium chloride ( provided by potassium chloride 3 g ) , in a palatable cherry flavored , sugar free vehicle and less than 0 . 3 % alcohol contributed by flavoring .
Inactive Ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , D & C Red # 33 , FD & C red # 40 , glycerin , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol solution , wild cherry flavor .
Potassium chloride oral solution 20 % is an electrolyte replenisher .
The chemical name is potassium chloride and the structural name is KCl .
Potassium chloride , USP occurs as a white granular powder or as odorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The potassium ion is the principle intercellular cation of most body tissue .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes including the maintenance of intercellular tonicity , the transmission of nerve impulses , the contraction of cardiac , skeletal and smooth muscle and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 Eq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion will occur whenever the potassium loss through renal excretion and / or loss from the gastrointestinal tract exceeds the rate of potassium intake .
Such depletions usually develop as a consequence of therapy with diuretics , primary or secondary hyperaldosteronism , diabetic ketoacidosis , or inadequate replacement of potassium or patients on prolonged parenteral nutrition .
Depletion can develop rapidly with severe diarrhea , especially if associated with vomiting .
Potassium depletion due to these causes is usually accompanied by a concomitant loss of chloride and is manifested by hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis .
Potassium depletion may produce weakness , fatigue , disturbances of cardiac rhythm , ( primarily ectopic beats ) , prominent U - waves in the electrocardiogram , and , in advanced cases , flaccid paralysis and / or impaired ability to concentrate urine .
If potassium depletion associated with metabolic alkalosis cannot be managed by correcting the fundamental cause of the deficiency , e . g . , where the patient requires long term diuretic therapy , supplemental potassium in the form of high potassium food or potassium chloride may be able to restore normal potassium levels .
In rare circumstances , ( e . g . , patients with renal tubular acidosis ) potassium depletion may be associated with metabolic acidosis and hyperchloremia .
In such patients , potassium replacement should be accomplished with potassium salts other than chloride , such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate , or potassium gluconate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • For the treatment of patients with hypokalemia , with or without metabolic alkalosis ; in digitalis intoxication ; and in patients with hypokalemic familial periodic paralysis .
If hypokalemia is the result of diuretic therapy , consideration should be given to the use of the lower dose of a diuretic , which may be sufficient without leading to hypokalemia .
• For the prevention of hypokalemia in patients who would be at particular risk if hyperkalemia were to develop e . g . , digitalized patients or patients with significant cardiac arrhythmias .
The use of potassium salts in patients receiving diuretics for uncomplicated essential hypertension is often unnecessary when such patients have a normal dietary pattern and when low doses of the diuretic are used .
Serum potassium should be checked periodically , however , and if hypokalemia occurs , dietary supplementation with potassium - containing foods may be adequate to control milder cases .
In more severe cases , and if dose adjustment of the diuretic is ineffective or unwarranted supplementation with potassium salts may be indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium supplements are contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia since further increase in serum potassium concentration in such patients can produce cardiac arrest .
Hyperkalemia may complicate any of the following conditions : chronic renal failure , systemic acidosis such as diabetic acidosis , acute dehydration , extensive tissue breakdown as in severe burns , adrenal insufficiency , or administration of a potassium - sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) ( see OVERDOSAGE ) WARNINGS DO NOT ADMINISTER FULL STRENGTH .
SOLUTION MAY CAUSE GASTROINTESTINAL IRRITATION IF ADMINISTERED UNDILUTED .
FOR DETAILS REGARDING ADEQUATE DILUTION , SEE DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Hyperkalemia ( see OVERDOSAGE ) In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , the administration of potassium salts can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
This occurs mostly in patients given potassium by the intravenous route but may also occur in patients given potassium orally .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium salts in patients with chronic renal disease , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion , requires particularly careful monitoring of the serum potassium concentration and appropriate dosage adjustment .
Interaction with Potassium Sparing Diuretics Hypokalemia should not be treated by the concomitant administration of potassium salts and a potassium sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene or amiloride ) since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Interaction with Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors ( e . g . , captopril , enalapril ) will produce some potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring .
Metabolic Acidosis Hypokalemia in patients with metabolic acidosis should be treated with an alkalinizing potassium salt such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate or potassium gluconate .
PRECAUTIONS General The diagnosis of potassium depletion is ordinarily made by demonstrating hypokalemia in a patient with a clinical history suggesting some cause for potassium depletion .
In interpreting serum potassium level , the physician should bear in mind that acute alkalosis per se can produce hypokalemia in the absence of a deficit in total body potassium while acute acidosis per se can increase the serum potassium concentration into the normal range even in the presence of a reduced total body potassium .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis requires careful attention to acid - base balance and appropriate monitoring of serum electrolytes , the electrocardiogram , and the clinical status of the patient .
Laboratory Tests When blood is drawn for analysis of plasma potassium , it is important to recognize that artifactual elevations can occur after improper venipuncture technique or as a result of in vitro hemolysis of the sample .
Drug Interactions Potassium - sparing diuretic , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors : see WARNINGS .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium chloride oral solution 20 % .
It is unlikely that potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia would have had an adverse effect on the fetus or would affect reproduction capacity .
Nursing Mothers The normal potassium content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , so long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness on children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
To report Adverse Drug Events call ( 866 ) 562 - 4597 or ( 800 ) FDA - 1088 .
The most common adverse reactions to the potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
These symptoms are due to irritation to the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further , taking the dose with meals , or reducing the amount taken at one time .
OVERDOSAGE The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , or if potassium is administered too rapidly intravenously , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peeking of T - waves , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include paralysis and cardiovascular collapse for cardiac arrest ( 9 - 12 mEq / L ) .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : • Elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and of any agents with potassium sparing properties ; • Intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 - 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
• Correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate ; • Use of exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dietary potassium intake by the average adult is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion sufficient to cause hypokalemia usually requires the loss of 200 or more mEq of potassium from the total body store .
Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
The dose for the prevention of hypokalemia is typically in the range of 20 mEq per day .
Doses of 40 - 100 mEq per day or more are used for the treatment of potassium depletion .
Potassium Chloride Oral Solution 20 % To minimize gastrointestinal irritation , patients must follow directions regarding dilution .
Each tablespoon ( 15 mL ) should be diluted with six ( 6 ) fluid ounces or more of water or other liquid .
One ( 1 ) tablespoonful ( 15 mL ) per day ( after the morning meal ) supplies 40 mEq of potassium chloride .
One tablespoonful , twice a day , provides 80 mEq of potassium chloride .
Deviations from these recommendations may be indicated since no average total daily dose can be defined but must be governed by close observation for clinical effects .
However , potassium intoxication may result from any therapeutic dosage .
See OVERDOSAGE and PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED In pint bottles .
Potassium Chloride Oral Solution , USP 20 % ( 473 mL ) – 16571 - 304 - 16 Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) see USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Avoid freezing .
Manufactured by : Bio - Pharm , Inc .
Levittown , PA 19057 Distributed by : PACK Pharmaceuticals , LLC Buffalo Grove , IL 60089 800 - 521 - 5340 REV 03 / 2014 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 16571 - 304 - 16 Potassium Chloride Oral Solution , USP 20 % Cherry Flavored Sugar Free Rx only 40 mEq .
Potassium per 15 mL Replacement therapy for POTASSIUM - Deficiency States To be used for oral administration only .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : Do not use this product if inner foil seal over the mouth of the bottle is cut , torn , broken or missing .
Distributed by : PACK ™ Pharmaceuticals PACK Pharmaceuticals , LLC Buffalo Grove , IL 60089 LOT / EXP ONE PINT ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
