Rx only DESCRIPTION Cyclophosphamide is a synthetic antineoplastic drug chemically related to the nitrogen mustards .
Cyclophosphamide is a white crystalline powder with the molecular formula C7H15Cl2N2O2P • H2O and a molecular weight of 279 . 1 .
The chemical name for cyclophosphamide is 2 H - 1 , 3 , 2 - Oxazaphosphorin - 2 - amine , N , N - bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) tetrahydro - , 2 - oxide , monohydrate , ( ± ) .
Cyclophosphamide is soluble in water , saline , or ethanol and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet for oral administration contains cyclophosphamide ( anhydrous ) 25 mg or 50 mg .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : acacia , FD & C Blue No . 1 , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclophosphamide is biotransformed principally in the liver to active alkylating metabolites by a mixed function microsomal oxidase system .
These metabolites interfere with the growth of susceptible rapidly proliferating malignant cells .
The mechanism of action is thought to involve cross - linking of tumor cell DNA .
Cyclophosphamide is well absorbed after oral administration with a bioavailability greater than 75 % .
The unchanged drug has an elimination half - life of 3 to 12 hours .
It is eliminated primarily in the form of metabolites , but from 5 % to 25 % of the dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug .
Several cytotoxic and noncytotoxic metabolites have been identified in urine and in plasma .
Concentrations of metabolites reach a maximum in plasma 2 to 3 hours after an intravenous dose .
Plasma protein binding of unchanged drug is low but some metabolites are bound to an extent greater than 60 % .
It has not been demonstrated that any single metabolite is responsible for either the therapeutic or toxic effects of cyclophosphamide .
Although elevated levels of metabolites of cyclophosphamide have been observed in patients with renal failure , increased clinical toxicity in such patients has not been demonstrated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Malignant Diseases Cyclophosphamide Tablets USP , 25 mg and 50 mg , although effective alone in susceptible malignancies , are more frequently used concurrently or sequentially with other antineoplastic drugs .
The following malignancies are often susceptible to cyclophosphamide treatment : • Malignant lymphomas ( Stages III and IV of the Ann Arbor staging system ) , Hodgkin ’ s disease , lymphocytic lymphoma ( nodular or diffuse ) , mixed - cell type lymphoma , histiocytic lymphoma , Burkitt ’ s lymphoma .
• Multiple myeloma .
• Leukemias : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia , chronic granulocytic leukemia ( it is usually ineffective in acute blastic crisis ) , acute myelogenous and monocytic leukemia , acute lymphoblastic ( stem - cell ) leukemia in children ( cyclophosphamide given during remission is effective in prolonging its duration ) .
• Mycosis fungoides ( advanced disease ) .
• Neuroblastoma ( disseminated disease ) .
• Adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
• Retinoblastoma .
• Carcinoma of the breast .
Nonmalignant Disease Biopsy Proven “ Minimal Change ” Nephrotic Syndrome in Children : Cyclophosphamide Tablets USP , 25 mg and 50 mg are useful in carefully selected cases of biopsy proven “ minimal change ” nephrotic syndrome in children but should not be used as primary therapy .
In children whose disease fails to respond adequately to appropriate adrenocorticosteroid therapy or in whom the adrenocorticosteroid therapy produces or threatens to produce intolerable side effects , cyclophosphamide may induce a remission .
Cyclophosphamide is not indicated for the nephrotic syndrome in adults or for any other renal disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Continued use of cyclophosphamide is contraindicated in patients with severely depressed bone marrow function .
Cyclophosphamide is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to it ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Second malignancies have developed in some patients treated with cyclophosphamide used alone or in association with other antineoplastic drugs and / or modalities .
Most frequently , they have been urinary bladder , myeloproliferative , or lymphoproliferative malignancies .
Second malignancies most frequently were detected in patients treated for primary myeloproliferative or lymphoproliferative malignancies or nonmalignant disease in which immune processes are believed to be involved pathologically .
In some cases , the second malignancy developed several years after cyclophosphamide treatment had been discontinued .
In a single breast cancer trial utilizing two to four times the standard dose of cyclophosphamide in conjunction with doxorubicin a small number of cases of secondary acute myeloid leukemia occurred within two years of treatment initiation .
Urinary bladder malignancies generally have occurred in patients who previously had hemorrhagic cystitis .
In patients treated with cyclophosphamide - containing regimens for a variety of solid tumors , isolated case reports of secondary malignancies have been published .
One case of carcinoma of the renal pelvis was reported in a patient receiving long - term cyclophosphamide therapy for cerebral vasculitis .
The possibility of cyclophosphamide - induced malignancy should be considered in any benefit - to - risk assessment for use of the drug .
Cyclophosphamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and such abnormalities have been reported following cyclophosphamide therapy in pregnant women .
Abnormalities were found in two infants and a six - month - old fetus born to women treated with cyclophosphamide .
Ectrodactylia was found in two of the three cases .
Normal infants have also been born to women treated with cyclophosphamide during pregnancy , including the first trimester .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking ( receiving ) this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Cyclophosphamide interferes with oogenesis and spermatogenesis .
It may cause sterility in both sexes .
Development of sterility appears to depend on the dose of cyclophosphamide , duration of therapy , and the state of gonadal function at the time of treatment .
Cyclophosphamide - induced sterility may be irreversible in some patients .
Amenorrhea associated with decreased estrogen and increased gonadotropin secretion develops in a significant proportion of women treated with cyclophosphamide .
Affected patients generally resume regular menses within a few months after cessation of therapy .
Girls treated with cyclophosphamide during prepubescence generally develop secondary sexual characteristics normally and have regular menses .
Ovarian fibrosis with apparently complete loss of germ cells after prolonged cyclophosphamide treatment in late prepubescence has been reported .
Girls treated with cyclophosphamide during prepubescence subsequently have conceived .
Men treated with cyclophosphamide may develop oligospermia or azoospermia associated with increased gonadotropin but normal testosterone secretion .
Sexual potency and libido are unimpaired in these patients .
Boys treated with cyclophosphamide during prepubescence develop secondary sexual characteristics normally , but may have oligospermia or azoospermia and increased gonadotropin secretion .
Some degree of testicular atrophy may occur .
Cyclophosphamide - induced azoospermia is reversible in some patients , though the reversibility may not occur for several years after cessation of therapy .
Men temporarily rendered sterile by cyclophosphamide have subsequently fathered normal children .
Urinary System Hemorrhagic cystitis may develop in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
Rarely , this condition can be severe and even fatal .
Fibrosis of the urinary bladder , sometimes extensive , also may develop with or without accompanying cystitis .
Atypical urinary bladder epithelial cells may appear in the urine .
These adverse effects appear to depend on the dose of cyclophosphamide and the duration of therapy .
Such bladder injury is thought to be due to cyclophosphamide metabolites excreted in the urine .
Forced fluid intake helps to assure an ample output of urine , necessitates frequent voiding , and reduces the time the drug remains in the bladder .
This helps to prevent cystitis .
Hematuria usually resolves in a few days after cyclophosphamide treatment is stopped , but it may persist .
Medical and / or surgical supportive treatment may be required , rarely , to treat protracted cases of severe hemorrhagic cystitis .
It is usually necessary to discontinue cyclophosphamide therapy in instances of severe hemorrhagic cystitis .
Cardiac Toxicity Although a few instances of cardiac dysfunction have been reported following use of recommended doses of cyclophosphamide , no causal relationship has been established .
Acute cardiac toxicity has been reported with doses as low as 2 . 4 g / m2 to as high as 26 g / m2 , usually as a portion of an intensive antineoplastic multi - drug regimen or in conjunction with transplantation procedures .
In a few instances with high doses of cyclophosphamide , severe , and sometimes fatal , congestive heart failure has occurred after the first cyclophosphamide dose .
Histopathologic examination has primarily shown hemorrhagic myocarditis .
Hemopericardium has occurred secondary to hemorrhagic myocarditis and myocardial necrosis .
Pericarditis has been reported independent of any hemopericardium .
No residual cardiac abnormalities , as evidenced by electrocardiogram or echocardiogram appear to be present in patients surviving episodes of apparent cardiac toxicity associated with high doses of cyclophosphamide .
Cyclophosphamide has been reported to potentiate doxorubicin - induced cardiotoxicity .
Infections Treatment with cyclophosphamide may cause significant suppression of immune responses .
Serious , sometimes fatal , infections may develop in severely immunosuppressed patients .
Cyclophosphamide treatment may not be indicated , or should be interrupted , or the dose reduced , in patients who have or who develop viral , bacterial , fungal , protozoan , or helminthic infections .
Other Anaphylactic reactions have been reported ; death has also been reported in association with this event .
Possible cross - sensitivity with other alkylating agents has been reported .
PRECAUTIONS General Special attention to the possible development of toxicity should be exercised in patients being treated with cyclophosphamide if any of the following conditions are present : • Leukopenia • Thrombocytopenia • Tumor cell infiltration of bone marrow • Previous X - ray therapy • Previous therapy with other cytotoxic agents • Impaired hepatic function • Impaired renal function Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ’ s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression .
Urine should also be examined regularly for red cells which may precede hemorrhagic cystitis .
Drug Interactions The rate of metabolism and the leukopenic activity of cyclophosphamide reportedly are increased by chronic administration of high doses of phenobarbital .
The physician should be alert for possible combined drug actions , desirable or undesirable , involving cyclophosphamide even though cyclophosphamide has been used successfully concurrently with other drugs , including other cytotoxic drugs .
Cyclophosphamide treatment , which causes a marked and persistent inhibition of cholinesterase activity , potentiates the effect of succinylcholine chloride .
If a patient has been treated with cyclophosphamide within 10 days of general anesthesia , the anesthesiologist should be alerted .
Adrenalectomy Since cyclophosphamide has been reported to be more toxic in adrenalectomized dogs , adjustment of the doses of both replacement steroids and cyclophosphamide may be necessary for the adrenalectomized patient .
Wound Healing Cyclophosphamide may interfere with normal wound healing .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility See WARNINGS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D : See WARNINGS .
Nursing Mothers Cyclophosphamide is excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions and the potential for tumorigenicity shown for cyclophosphamide in humans , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The safety profile of cyclophosphamide in pediatric patients is similar to that of the adult population ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Geriatric Use Insufficient data from clinical studies of cyclophospamide for malignant lymphoma , multiple myeloma , leukemia , mycosis fungoides , neuroblastoma , retinoblastoma , and breast carcinoma are available for patients 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
In two clinical trials in which cyclophosphamide was compared with paclitaxel , each in combination with cisplatin , for the treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma , 154 ( 28 % ) of 552 patients who received cyclophosphamide plus cisplatin were 65 years or older .
Subset analyses ( < 65 versus > 65 years ) from these trials , published reports of clinical trials of cyclophosphamide - containing regimens in breast cancer and non - Hodgkin ’ s lymphoma , and postmarketing experience suggest that elderly patients may be more susceptible to cyclophosphamide toxicities .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range and adjusting as necessary based on patient response ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Treatment of Malignant Diseases ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Information on adverse reactions associated with the use of cyclophosphamide is arranged according to body system affected or type of reaction .
The adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing incidence .
The most serious adverse reactions are described in the WARNINGS section .
Reproductive System See WARNINGS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility .
Digestive System Nausea and vomiting commonly occur with cyclophosphamide therapy .
Anorexia and , less frequently , abdominal discomfort or pain and diarrhea may occur .
There are isolated reports of hemorrhagic colitis , oral mucosal ulceration and jaundice occurring during therapy .
These adverse drug effects generally remit when cyclophosphamide treatment is stopped .
Skin and Its Structures Alopecia occurs commonly in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
The hair can be expected to grow back after treatment with the drug or even during continued drug treatment , though it may be different in texture or color .
Skin rash occurs occasionally in patients receiving the drug .
Pigmentation of the skin and changes in nails can occur .
Very rare reports of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been received during postmarketing surveillance ; due to the nature of spontaneous adverse event reporting , a definitive causal relationship to cyclophosphamide has not been established .
Hematopoietic System Leukopenia occurs in patients treated with cyclophosphamide , is related to the dose of drug , and can be used as a dosage guide .
Leukopenia of less than 2000 cells / mm3 develops commonly in patients treated with an initial loading dose of the drug , and less frequently in patients maintained on smaller doses .
The degree of neutropenia is particularly important because it correlates with a reduction in resistance to infections .
Fever without documented infection has been reported in neutropenic patients .
Thrombocytopenia or anemia develop occasionally in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
These hematologic effects usually can be reversed by reducing the drug dose or by interrupting treatment .
Recovery from leukopenia usually begins in 7 to 10 days after cessation of therapy .
Urinary System See WARNINGS : Urinary System for information on cystitis and urinary bladder fibrosis .
Hemorrhagic ureteritis and renal tubular necrosis have been reported to occur in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
Such lesions usually resolve following cessation of therapy .
Infections See WARNINGS : Infections for information on reduced host resistance to infections .
Carcinogenesis See WARNINGS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility .
Respiratory System Interstitial pneumonitis has been reported as part of the postmarketing experience .
Interstitial pulmonary fibrosis has been reported in patients receiving high doses of cyclophosphamide over a prolonged period .
Other Anaphylactic reactions have been reported ; death has also been reported in association with this event .
Possible cross - sensitivity with other alkylating agents has been reported .
SIADH ( syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion ) has been reported with the use of cyclophosphamide .
Malaise and asthenia have been reported as part of the postmarketing experience .
OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote for cyclophosphamide is known .
Overdosage should be managed with supportive measures , including appropriate treatment for any concurrent infection , myelosuppression , or cardiac toxicity should it occur .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of Malignant Diseases Adults and Children : Oral cyclophosphamide dosing is usually in the range of 1 to 5 mg / kg / day for both initial and maintenance dosing .
Many other regimens of intravenous and oral cyclophosphamide have been reported .
Dosages must be adjusted in accord with evidence of antitumor activity and / or leukopenia .
The total leukocyte count is a good , objective guide for regulating dosage .
Transient decreases in the total white blood cell count to 2000 cells / mm3 ( following short courses ) or more persistent reduction to 3000 cells / mm3 ( with continuing therapy ) are tolerated without serious risk of infection if there is no marked granulocytopenia .
When cyclophosphamide is included in combined cytotoxic regimens , it may be necessary to reduce the dose of cyclophosphamide , as well as that of the other drugs .
Cyclophosphamide and its metabolites are dialyzable although there are probably quantitative differences depending upon the dialysis system being used .
Patients with compromised renal function may show some measurable changes in pharmacokinetic parameters of cyclophosphamide metabolism , but there is no consistent evidence indicating a need for cyclophosphamide dosage modification in patients with renal function impairment .
Treatment of Nonmalignant Diseases Biopsy Proven “ Minimal Change ” Nephrotic Syndrome in Children : An oral dose of 2 . 5 to 3 mg / kg daily for a period of 60 to 90 days is recommended .
In males , the incidence of oligospermia and azoospermia increases if the duration of cyclophosphamide treatment exceeds 60 days .
Treatment beyond 90 days increases the probability of sterility .
Adrenocorticosteroid therapy may be tapered and discontinued during the course of cyclophosphamide therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Preparation and Handling of Solutions Extemporaneous liquid preparations of cyclophosphamide for oral administration may be prepared by dissolving cyclophosphamide for injection in Aromatic Elixir , N . F .
Such preparations should be stored under refrigeration in glass containers and used within 14 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyclophosphamide Tablets USP 25 mg , light blue , round , unscored tablets ( Identified 54 639 ) NDC 54868 - 5218 - 0 : Bottle of 100 tablets NDC 54868 - 5218 - 1 : Bottle of 10 tablets .
50 mg , light blue , round , unscored tablets ( Identified 54 980 ) NDC 54868 - 5005 - 0 : Bottle of 100 tablets .
Storage Storage at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) is recommended ; this product will withstand brief exposure to temperatures up to 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) but should be protected from temperatures above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 8 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , always wear impervious gloves when handling bottles containing cyclophosphamide tablets .
This includes all handling activities in clinical settings , pharmacies , storerooms , and home healthcare settings , including during unpacking and inspection , transport within a facility , and dose preparation and administration .
References • ONS Clinical Practice Committee .
Cancer Chemotherapy Guidelines and Recommendations for Practice .
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society ; 1999 : 32 - 41 .
• Recommendations for the safe handling of parenteral antineoplastic drugs .
Washington , DC : Division of Safety , National Institutes of Health ; 1983 .
US Dept of Health and Human Services , Public Health Service publication NIH 83 - 2621 .
• AMA Council on Scientific Affairs .
Guidelines for handling parenteral antineoplastics .
JAMA . 1985 ; 253 : 1590 - 1592 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure .
Recommendations for handling cytotoxic agents .
1987 .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure .
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , MA 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia .
Guidelines and recommendations for safe handling of antineoplastic agents .
Med J Aust . 1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
• Jones RB , Frank R , Mass T . Safe handling of chemotherapeutic agents : a report from The Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA Cancer J Clin . 1983 ; 33 : 258 - 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists .
ASHP technical assistance bulletin on handling cytotoxic and hazardous drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm . 1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• Controlling occupational exposure to hazardous drugs .
( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines . )
Am J Health - Syst Pharm . 1996 ; 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
4047201 / / 03 Revised September 2007 © RLI , 2007 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 Package Label - Cyclophosphamide Tablets USP 25 mg CYTOTOXIC AGENT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 mg CYTOTOXIC AGENT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
