DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 12 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings Do not puncture or incinerate can .
Keep away from fire and flames .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash and irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Shake well .
Spray liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Hold container 4 to 6 inches from skin to apply .
Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands and apply to face .
Avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray .
Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
Immediately after towel drying At least every 2 hours .
Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Inactive Ingredients Bentonite , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Coco - Glucoside , Glycerin , Heptyl Undecylenate , Jojoba Esters , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Vanillin , Water Other information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Store at temperatures below 90 ° F • May stain some fabrics PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Bottle Label Continuous Spray Twist - lock Cap SUN PROTECTION Sun Shield Clear Spray SPF 30 Broad Spectrum MyChelle ® dermaceuticals REEF SAFE WATER RESISTANT 6 fl oz / 177 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
