WARNING : FOR INTRALYMPHATIC , INTRAUTERINE AND SELECTIVE HEPATIC INTRA - ARTERIAL USE ONLY Pulmonary and cerebral embolism can result from inadvertent intravascular injection or intravasation of Lipiodol .
Inject Lipiodol slowly with radiologic monitoring ; do not exceed recommended dose ( 5 . 1 ) .
WARNING : FOR INTRALYMPHATIC , INTRAUTERINE AND SELECTIVE HEPATIC INTRA - ARTERIAL USE ONLY See Full Prescribing Information for complete Boxed Warning Pulmonary and cerebral embolism can result from inadvertent intravascular injection or intravasation of Lipiodol .
Inject Lipiodol slowly with radiologic monitoring ; do not exceed recommended dose ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lipiodol is an oil - based radio - opaque contrast agent indicated for : • hysterosalpingography in adults • lymphography in adult and pediatric patients • selective hepatic intra - arterial use for imaging tumors in adults with known hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) Lipiodol is an oil - based radiopaque contrast agent indicated for : • hysterosalpingography in adults • lymphography in adult and pediatric patients • selective hepatic intra - arterial use for imaging tumors in adults with known hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use a disposable syringe to draw and inject Lipiodol .
• Hysterosalpingography Inject increments of 2 mL of Lipiodol into the endometrial cavity until tubal patency is determined ; stop the injection if the patient develops excessive discomfort .
Inject with radiologic monitoring .
• Lymphography Inject Lipiodol into a lymphatic vessel with radiologic monitoring .
Adults : • unilateral lymphography of the upper extremities : 2 to 4 mL • unilateral lymphography of the lower extremities : 6 to 8 mL • penile lymphography : 2 to 3 mL • cervical lymphography : 1 to 2 mL Pediatric patients : • Inject a minimum of 1 mL to a maximum of 6 mL according to the anatomical area to be visualized .
Do not exceed 0 . 25 mL / kg .
• Selective Hepatic Intra - arterial Use Inject 1 . 5 to 15 mL of Lipiodol slowly under continuous radiologic monitoring .
Do not exceed 20 mL total dosage .
2 . 1 Dosing Guidelines Draw Lipiodol into a disposable syringe .
Use the smallest possible amount of Lipiodol according to the anatomical area to be visualized .
Hysterosalpingography Using aseptic technique inject Lipiodol into the endometrial cavity with fluoroscopic control .
Inject increments of 2 mL of Lipiodol until tubal patency is determined ; stop the injection if patient develops excessive discomfort .
The total volume to be injected depends on the volume of the uterine cavity , usually not exceeding 15 mL .
A 24 - hour image can be obtained if , after slow peritoneal spillage , the evaluation of adhesions is needed .
Perform the procedure during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle .
Before using Lipiodol exclude the presence of these conditions : pregnancy , uterine bleeding and endocervicitis , acute pelvic inflammatory disease , the immediate pre - or postmenstrual phase or within 30 days of curettage or conization .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) & Pregnancy ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lymphography Inject Lipiodol into a lymphatic vessel under radiologic guidance to prevent inadvertent venous administration or intravasation .
Adults : • unilateral lymphography of the upper extremities 2 to 4 mL • unilateral lymphography of the lower extremities 6 to 8 mL • penile lymphography 2 to 3 mL • cervical lymphography 1 to 2 mL Pediatric patients : • Inject a minimum of 1 mL to a maximum of 6 mL according to the anatomical area to be visualized .
Do not exceed 0 . 25 mL / kg .
The following method is recommended for lymphography of the upper or lower extremities .
Start the injection of Lipiodol into a lymphatic channel at a rate not to exceed 0 . 2 mL per minute .
Inject the total dose of Lipiodol in no less than 1 . 25 hours .
Use frequent radiologic monitoring to determine the appropriate injection rate and to follow the progress of Lipiodol within the lymphatics .
Interrupt the injection if the patient experiences pain .
Terminate the injection if lymphatic blockage is present to minimize introduction of Lipiodol into the venous circulation via lymphovenous channels .
Terminate the injection as soon as Lipiodol is radiographically evident in the thoracic duct to minimize entry of Lipiodol into the subclavian vein and pulmonary embolization .
Obtain immediate post - injection images .
Re - image at 24 or 48 hours to evaluate nodal architecture .
Selective Hepatic Intra - arterial Injection Determine the dose depending on the tumor size , local blood flow in the liver and in the tumor ( s ) .
• Inject from 1 . 5 to 15 mL slowly under continuous radiologic monitoring .
Stop the injection when stagnation or reflux is evident .
Limit the dose to only the quantity required for adequate visualization .
The total dose of Lipiodol administered should not exceed 20 mL .
2 . 2 Drug Handling Inspect Lipiodol visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration .
Do not use the solution if particulate matter is present or if the container appears damaged .
Lipiodol is a clear , pale yellow to amber colored oil ; do not use if the color has darkened .
Draw Lipiodol into a disposable syringe and use promptly .
Discard any unused portion of Lipiodol .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each milliliter of Lipiodol contains 480 mg / mL of Iodine organically combined with ethyl esters of fatty acids of poppy seed oil .
Each mL of Lipiodol contains 480 mg Iodine organically combined with ethyl esters of fatty acids of poppy seed oil .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lipiodol is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to Lipiodol , hyperthyroidism , traumatic injuries , recent hemorrhage or bleeding .
Hysterosalpingography Lipiodol hysterosalpingography is contraindicated in pregnancy , acute pelvic inflammatory disease , marked cervical erosion , endocervicitis and intrauterine bleeding , in the immediate pre - or postmenstrual phase , within 30 days of curettage or conization or patients with known or suspected reproductive tract neoplasia due to the risk of peritoneal spread of neoplasm .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lymphography Lipiodol Lymphography is contraindicated in patients with a right to left cardiac shunt , advanced pulmonary disease , tissue trauma or hemorrhage advanced neoplastic disease with expected lymphatic obstruction , previous surgery interrupting the lymphatic system , radiation therapy to the examined area .
Selective Hepatic Intra - arterial Use Patients with HCC Lipiodol use is contraindicated in areas of the liver where the bile ducts are dilated unless external biliary drainage was performed before injection .
Hypersensitivity to Lipiodol , hyperthyroidism , traumatic injuries , recent hemorrhage or bleeding .
• Lipiodol Hysterosalpingography is contraindicated in : pregnancy , acute pelvic inflammatory disease , marked cervical erosion , endocervicitis and intrauterine bleeding , in the immediate pre - or postmenstrual phase , within 30 days of curettage or conization or patients with known or suspected reproductive tract neoplasia due to the risk of peritoneal spread of neoplasm .
• Lipiodol Lymphography is contraindicated in : right to left cardiac shunt , advanced pulmonary disease , tissue trauma or hemorrhage , advanced neoplastic disease with expected lymphatic obstruction , previous surgery interrupting the lymphatic system , or radiation therapy to the examined area .
• Lipiodol Selective Hepatic Intra - arterial Injection is contraindicated in : the presence of dilated bile ducts unless external biliary drainage was performed before injection .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pulmonary and cerebral embolism : avoid use in patients with severely impaired lung function , cardiorespiratory failure or right - sided cardiac overload ( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity reactions : avoid use in patients with a history of sensitivity to other iodinated contrast agents , bronchial asthma or allergic disorders because of an increased risk of a hypersensitivity reaction to Lipiodol ( 5 . 2 ) • Exacerbation of chronic liver disease ( 5 . 3 ) • Thyroid dysfunction ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Pulmonary and Cerebral Embolism Pulmonary embolism may occur immediately or after a few hours to days from inadvertent systemic vascular injection or intravasation of Lipiodol and cause decreased pulmonary diffusing capacity and pulmonary blood flow , pulmonary infarction , acute respiratory distress syndrome and fatalities .
Embolization of Lipiodol to brain and other major organs may occur .
Avoid use of Lipiodol in patients with severely impaired lung function , cardiorespiratory failure , or right – sided cardiac overload .
Perform radiological monitoring during the Lipiodol injection .
Do not exceed the recommended maximum dose and rate of injection of Lipiodol .
During lymphography to minimize the risk of pulmonary embolism obtain radiographic confirmation of intralymphatic ( rather than venous ) injection , and terminate the procedure when Lipiodol becomes visible in the thoracic duct or lymphatic obstruction is observed .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactoid and anaphylactic reactions with cardiovascular , respiratory or cutaneous manifestations , ranging from mild to severe , including death , have uncommonly occurred following Lipiodol administration .
Avoid use in patients with a history of sensitivity to other iodinated contrast agents , bronchial asthma or allergic disorders because of an increased risk of a hypersensitivity reaction to Lipiodol .
Administer Lipiodol only in situations where trained personnel and therapies are promptly available for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions , including personnel trained in resuscitation ; ensure continuous medical monitoring and maintain an intravenous access line .
Most hypersensitivity reactions to Lipiodol occur within half an hour after administration .
Delayed reactions can occur up to several days after administration .
Observe patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during and for at least 30 minutes following Lipiodol administration .
5 . 3 Exacerbation of Chronic Liver Disease Lipiodol hepatic intra - arterial administration can exacerbate the following conditions : portal hypertension and cause variceal bleeds due to obstruction of the intrahepatic portal channels by opening a pre sinusoidal anastomosis ; hepatic ischemia and cause liver enzyme elevations , fever and abdominal pain ; hepatic failure and cause ascites and encephalopathy .
Hepatic vein thrombosis , irreversible liver insufficiency and fatalities have been reported .
Procedural risks include vascular complications and infections .
5 . 4 Thyroid Dysfunction Iodinated contrast media can affect thyroid function because of the iodide content and can cause hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism .
Ethiodized oil may remain in the body for several months , depending on dose administered and route of administration .
Keep the dose of Lipiodol as low as possible and consider monitoring thyroid function closely for several months after administration of Lipiodol .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions caused by Lipiodol include hypersensitivity reactions , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary dysfunction , exacerbation of liver disease , procedural complications , abdominal pain , fever , nausea , vomiting , and thyroid dysfunction .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GUERBET LLC at 1 - 877 - 729 - 6679 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions ( Table 1 ) have been identified during post approval use of Lipiodol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the prescribing information : Pulmonary and cerebral embolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Exacerbation of chronic liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Thyroid dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Thyroid dysfunction in the mother and the infant of a subsequent pregnancy [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in the Postmarketing ExperienceSystem Organ Class Adverse Reaction Eye disorders retinal vein thrombosis General disorders and administration site conditions fever , pain , granuloma Immune system disorders hypersensitivity , anaphylactic reaction , anaphylactoid reaction , cardiovascular reactions Nervous system disorders cerebral embolism Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders pulmonary embolism , dyspnea , cough , acute respiratory distress syndrome Urinary system disorders renal insufficiency Hysterosalpingography Abdominal pain , foreign body reactions , exacerbation of pelvic inflammatory disease , salpingitis or pelvic peritonitis have been reported after the examination in case of latent infection .
Lymphography Lymphangitis , thrombophlebitis , edema or exacerbation of preexisting lymphedema , dyspnea and cough , iodism ( headache , soreness of mouth and pharynx , coryza and skin rash ) , allergic dermatitis , lipogranuloma , delayed healing at the site of incision .
Selective Hepatic Intra - arterial Injection Abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting are the most common reactions ; other reactions include hepatic vein thrombosis , hepatic ischemia , liver enzymes abnormalities , transitory decrease in liver function , liver decompensation and renal insufficiency .
Procedural risks include vascular complications and infections .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lipiodol may interfere with thyroid function testing and with radioactive iodine uptake by the thyroid tissue during diagnostic or therapeutic procedures .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Interference with Iodine - Based Diagnostic Tests and Iodine - Based Radiotherapy Following Lipiodol administration , ethiodized oil remains in the body for several months .
Ethiodized oil interferes with radioactive iodine uptake by the thyroid for several weeks to months may impair visualization of thyroid scintigraphy and reduce effectiveness of iodine 131 treatment .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Consider thyroid function testing in pregnant women and their infants if exposed to Lipiodol either before or during pregnancy , if clinically indicated ( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Consider thyroid function testing in a breastfed infant whose mother was exposed to Lipiodol or , if clinically indicated ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary Hysterosalpingography is contraindicated in pregnant women due to the potential risk to the fetus from an intrauterine procedure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The use of Lipiodol before or during pregnancy may interfere with thyroid function in both the pregnant woman and her fetus and may affect fetal development .
There are maternal , fetal , and neonatal clinical considerations for women who are exposed to Lipiodol either before or during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Rare pregnancy outcomes reported in the post marketing setting with Lipiodol use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage ( see Data ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted using the indicated routes of administration of Lipiodol , it was not embryotoxic or teratogenic in animal studies with oral administration .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of major birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Maternal adverse reactions The use of Lipiodol before or during pregnancy may interfere with the thyroid function of the pregnant woman .
Untreated hypothyroidism in pregnancy is associated with adverse perinatal outcomes , such as spontaneous abortion , preeclampsia , preterm birth , abruptio placentae , and fetal death .
Consider thyroid function testing during pregnancy if a woman was exposed to Lipiodol either before or during pregnancy or if clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions The use of Lipiodol before or during pregnancy causes iodide transfer across the placenta which may interfere with fetal thyroid function and may affect fetal development .
Untreated hypothyroidism is associated with increased fetal risk of low birth weight , fetal distress , and impaired neuropsychological development .
Consider thyroid function testing in infants whose mothers were exposed to Lipiodol before and during pregnancy or if clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Data Human Data In a prospective study , twenty - two euthyroid women with infertility underwent hysterosalpingography , and thyroid stimulating hormone , serum iodine concentration , and urinary iodide / creatine excretion were evaluated at 4 , 8 , 12 , 24 weeks .
Six patients were followed upto12 months .
The median value of urinary iodide excretion peaked at four weeks post - procedure and remained elevated at 8 , 12 , 24 weeks post - procedure compared to pre - procedure .
Three patients showed elevated TSH ( 5 uIU / L ) with normal T4 at 4 or 8 weeks after hysterosalpingography .
In addition , there are post marketing reports of goiters and hypothyroidism in fetuses and infants whose mothers were exposed to Lipiodol for hysterosalpingography prior to pregnancy .
Animal Data Lipiodol was not embryotoxic or teratogenic in rats after oral administration of up to 250 mg Iodine / kg each day between gestation days 6 to 17 , or in rabbits after 4 - 5 intermittent ( once every three days ) oral administrations of 12 . 5 mg Iodine / kg between gestation days 6 to 18 .
Maternal toxicity was observed in rats at 250 mg Iodine / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Ethiodized oil is present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of ethiodized oil on the breastfed infant , or effects on milk production , however , the use of Lipiodol may increase the concentration of iodide in human milk and may interfere with the thyroid function of the breastfed infant .
Consider thyroid function testing in a breastfed infant whose mother was exposed to Lipiodol or if clinically indicated .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Lipiodol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Lipiodol or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive potential Pregnancy Testing Confirm that the patient has a negative pregnancy test within 24 hours before Lipiodol administration for hysterosalpingography [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use For lymphography use a dose of minimum of 1 mL to a maximum of 6 mL according to the anatomical area to be visualized .
Do not exceed 0 . 25 mL / kg .
Administer the smallest possible amount of Lipiodol according to the anatomical area to be visualized .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There are no studies conducted in geriatric patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Prior to an intra - arterial administration of Lipiodol screen all patients for renal dysfunction by obtaining history and / or laboratory tests .
Consider follow - up renal function assessments for patients with a history of renal dysfunction .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose may lead to respiratory , cardiac or cerebral complications , which can potentially be fatal .
Microembolisms to multiple organs may occur more frequently after overdose .
Promptly initiate symptomatic treatment and support of vital functions .
11 DESCRIPTION Lipiodol , ethiodized oil injection , is a sterile injectable radio - opaque agent .
Each milliliter contains 480 mg of Iodine organically combined with ethyl esters of fatty acids of poppy seed oil .
The precise structure of Lipiodol is unknown .
Lipiodol is a sterile , clear , pale yellow to amber colored oil .
Lipiodol has a viscosity of 34 – 70 mPa · s at 20 ° C , and a density of 1 . 28 g / cm3 at 20 ° C . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lipiodol opacifies vessels and body structures in the path of the flow of the contrast medium , permitting visualization of the internal structures .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following administration of Lipiodol , the degree of enhancement is directly related to the local iodine content in the body structures to be imaged .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following intra - arterial administration of Lipiodol , ethiodized oil retained in normal hepatic parenchyma is phagocytized by the Kupffer cells of the liver and washed out via the hepatic lymphatic system in about 2 to 4 weeks .
In HCC , retention in the liver tumor is prolonged , allowing re - imaging of the tumor for four weeks or longer .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Lipiodol did not demonstrate mutagenic potential in bacterial reverse mutation assays ( in vitro ) , in a chromosomal aberration test in the mouse lymphoma assay ( in vitro ) , and was negative in an in vivo micronucleus test in rats after intravenous injection of 479 mg I / kg .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Lipiodol is supplied in a box of one 10 mL ampoule , NDC 67684 - 1901 - 1 .
Lipiodol is supplied in a box of one 10 mL vial , NDC 67684 - 1901 - 2 .
Each vial is closed with a rubber stopper and sealed with an aluminum cap .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP , Controlled Room Temperature ( CRT ) ] .
Protect from light .
Remove from carton only upon use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise the patient concerning the risk of hypersensitivity reactions that can occur both during and after Lipiodol administration .
Advise the patient to report any signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during the procedure and to seek medical attention for signs or symptoms experienced after discharge [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Thyroid Dysfunction Advise patients concerning the risk of hyper - or hypothyroidism flowing the use of Lipiodol due to ethiodized oil remaining in the body for several months .
Instruct patients to follow up with their physician if they become pregnant or develop any signs of thyroid dysfunction in the months after administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) ] .
Rx Only Guerbet LLC 214 Carnegie Center , Suite 300 Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA For further information or ordering , call 1 - 877 - 729 - 6679 Ampoules manufactured for Guerbet LLC by : Jubilant HollisterStier General Partnership , Canada Vials manufactured for Guerbet LLC by : Recipharm Monts , France Revised 11 / 2022 Contraindications ( 4 ) 11 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
