DESCRIPTION 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution containing 100 mg ( 1 . 4 mEq / mL ) of calcium chloride , dihydrate ( 1 . 4 mEq each of Ca + + and Cl ¯ ) in water for injection .
It is provided in a 10 mL Unit of Use Syringe to facilitate prompt intravenous injection .
The solution is administered only by intravenous or intraventricular cavity injection as a calcium replenisher .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
As per USP testing , when diluted with water for injection to make a 5 % solution , the pH of calcium chloride injection is 6 . 3 ( 5 . 5 to 7 . 5 ) .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolar concentration is 2 . 04 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is oxygen sensitive .
Calcium Chloride , USP dihydrate is chemically designated CaCl2 · 2H2O ( dihydrate ) white , odorless fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Clinical Pharmacology Calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the body and the major fraction is in the bony structure .
Calcium plays important physiological roles , many of which are poorly understood .
It is essential for the functional integrity of the nervous and muscular systems .
It is necessary for normal cardiac function and is one of the factors that operates in the mechanisms involved in the coagulation of blood .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiological mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Indications and Usage 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated ( 1 ) for the treatment of hypocalcemia in those conditions requiring a prompt increase in blood plasma calcium levels , ( 2 ) in the treatment of magnesium intoxication due to overdosage of magnesium sulfate and ( 3 ) to combat the deleterious effects of hyperkalemia as measured by electrocardiographic ( ECG ) , pending correction of the increased potassium level in the extracellular fluid .
10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP also may be used in cardiac resuscitation when weak or inadequate contractions return following defibrillation or when epinephrine injection has failed to strengthen myocardial contractions .
Contraindications Calcium chloride is contraindicated for cardiac resuscitation in the presence of ventricular fibrillation or in patients with the risk of existing digitalis toxicity .
Warnings 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is irritating to veins and must not be injected into tissues , since severe necrosis and sloughing may occur .
Great care should be taken to avoid extravasation or accidental injection into perivascular tissues .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Adverse Reactions Rapid injection may cause the patient to complain of tingling sensations , a calcium taste , a sense of oppression or “ heat wave ” .
Injections of calcium chloride are accompanied by peripheral vasodilatation as well as a local “ burning ” sensation and there may be a moderate fall in blood pressure .
Should perivascular infiltration occur , I . V . administration at that site should be discontinued at once .
Local infiltration of the affected area with 1 % procaine hydrochloride , to which hyaluronidase may be added , will often reduce venospasm and dilute the calcium remaining in the tissues locally .
Local application of heat may also be helpful .
Drug Abuse and Dependence None known .
Overdosage Too rapid injection may produce lowering of blood pressure and cardiac syncope .
Persistent hypercalcemia from overdosage of calcium is unlikely because of rapid excretion .
In the event of untoward effects from excessive calcium administration , the drug should be discontinued promptly , the patient re - evaluated and appropriate countermeasures instituted , if necessary .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Dosage and Administration 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is administered only by slow intravenous injection ( not to exceed 1 mL / min ) and / or in cardiac resuscitation , by injection into the ventricular cavity .
It must not be injected into the myocardium .
The usual precautions for intravenous therapy should be observed .
If time permits , the solution should be warmed to body temperature .
The injection should be halted if the patient complains of any discomfort ; it may be resumed when symptoms disappear .
Following injection , the patient should remain recumbent for a short time .
The usual adult dosage in hypocalcemic disorders ranges from 500 mg to 1 g ( 5 to 10 mL ) at intervals of 1 to 3 days , depending on the response of the patient and / or results of serum calcium determinations .
Repeated injections may be required because of rapid excretion of calcium .
In magnesium intoxication , an initial adult dose of 500 mg ( 5 mL ) should be administered promptly and the patient observed for signs of recovery before further doses are given .
In hyperkalemic ECG disturbances of cardiac function , the dosage of calcium chloride injection should be titrated by constant monitoring of ECG changes during administration .
In cardiac resuscitation , the usual adult dosage ranges from 500 mg to 1 g ( 5 to 10 mL ) intravenously , or from 200 to 800 mg ( 2 to 8 mL ) when injected into the ventricular cavity .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent or broken by hand .
How Supplied 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Abboject ® is a trademark of the Abbott group of companies LIFESHIELD ® is the trademark of ICU Medical , Inc . and is used under license .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 4928 - 34 LifeShield ® Abboject ® Unit of Use Syringe NDC 0404 - 9829 - 10 1 LifeShield ® Abboject ® Unit of Use Syringe in 1 bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 4928 - 34 ) 10 mL 1 Gram ( 100 mg / mL ) 1 . 4 mEq Ca + + / mL Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1241 - 2 . 0 Revised : 04 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
