Active ingredient Docosanol 10 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Uses • • treats cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • • shortens healing time and duration of symptoms : • • tingling , pain , burning , and / or itching Warnings Allergy alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • • hives • • facial swelling • • wheezing / difficulty breathing • • shock • • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
For external use only Do not use • • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product • • apply only to affected areas • • do not use in or near the eyes • • avoid applying directly inside your mouth • • do not share this product with anyone .
This may spread infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years or over : • • wash hands before and after applying cream • • apply to affected area on face or lips at the first sign of cold sore / fever blister ( tingle ) • • early treatment ensures the best results • • rub in gently but completely • • use 5 times a day until healed • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 o - 25 oC ( 68 o - 77 oF ) • • do not freeze Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , light mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sucrose distearate , sucrose stearate Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 709 - 3539 Additional information * ABREVA contains the only OTC medicine approved by the FDA to shorten healing time and duration of symptoms .
Retain this insert for full product uses , directions and warnings .
If you are not completely satisfied , save receipt and remaining product , and call us at 1 - 877 - 709 - 3539 .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
Distributed for Avanir Pharmaceuticals by GSKConsumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 , Made in Germany © 2020 GSK or licensor .
Thank you for puchasing ABREVA .
We hope that since ABREVA shortens the healing time of cold sores , it helps you look and feel better faster .
Please follow insert directions for proper use and refer to the information below .
You are not alone An estimated one - in - five Americans is affected by cold sores each year .
Most people who experience them get two to three cold sore outbreaks each year .
Just before and during an outbreak , the cold sore infection can be easily passed on to others .
It is especially important to be aware of early warning signs that a cold sore is coming , and to be sure to avoid close physical contact when you have one .
Getting to the Root of the Problem A blister , or cluster of blisters around your mouth , is caused by the cold sore virus .
After the cold sore has healed , the virus stays dormant in your body but can be reactivated by everyday triggers like stress , sunlight , extreme hot or cold weather , colds and flu , lack of sleep , or menstruation .
The Sooner , the Better A typical cold sore outbreak can last as long as seven to ten days .
The sooner you begin using ABREVA , the more effective the medicine will be .
So for best results , use ABREVA at the very start of the cold sore - when you feel the first sign of the tingle , redness , bump or itch .
Frequently Asked Questions : How is ABREVA different from the Over - The - Counter cold sore remedies I have already been using ?
Abreva contains 10 % docosanol , the only FDA approved non - prescription ingredient that can actually shorten healing time and the duration of symptoms including tingling , pain , itching , and burning .
The sooner you start using ABREVA , the sooner you can begin healing your cold sore .
No other Over - The - Counter cold sore product heals your cold sore faster .
Who can use ABREVA ?
Adults and children 12 years and over can use ABREVA .
How often can I apply ABREVA ?
ABREVA should be used five times a day until the cold sore is healed .
Apply it directly to the cold sore at the first sign of a tingle , redness , bump or itch for best results .
Can I apply cosmetics on top of ABREVA ?
Yes , cosmetics such as lipstick may be applied over ABREVA .
However , use a separate applicator , like a cotton swab , to apply cosmetics over an unhealed cold sore to avoid spreading the infection .
For best results , remove any cosmetics prior to applying ABREVA .
For More Information : • Call us at 1 - 877 - 709 - 3539 Abreva DOCOSANOL 10 % CREAM COLD SORE / FEVER BLISTER TREATMENT Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0200 - 01 abreva DOCOSANOL 10 % CREAM gsk Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment Cold Sore Treatment Beauty Unaltered NET WT 2 g ( 0 . 07 oz ) 1000771 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
