1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride at the concentration of 2 USP units / mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency .
HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION at the concentration of 2 USP units / mL is an anticoagulant indicated for : • Maintenance of catheter patency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Although the rate of infusion of the 2 USP units / mL formulation is dependent upon the age , weight , clinical condition of the patient , and the procedure being employed , an infusion rate of 3 mL / hour has been found to be satisfactory .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the selection of the correct formulation and strength prior to administration of the drug .
This product should be administered by intravenous infusion .
Do not use Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection as a “ catheter lock flush ” product .
Do not admix with other drugs .
Do not use plastic containers in series connection .
This product should not be infused under pressure .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
2 . 2 Maintenance of Catheter Patency Although the rate of infusion of the 2 USP units / mL formulation is dependent upon the age , weight , clinical condition of the patient , and the procedure being employed , an infusion rate of 3 mL / hour has been found to be satisfactory .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Heparin Sodium 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Heparin Sodium 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of HEPARIN SODIUM is contraindicated in patients : • With a history of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) ( With or Without Thrombosis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • With a known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • History of Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) ( With or Without Thrombosis ) ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fatal Medication Errors : Confirm choice of correct strength prior to administration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hemorrhage : Fatal cases have occurred .
Use caution in conditions with increased risk of hemorrhage .
( 5 . 2 ) • HIT ( With or Without Thrombosis ) : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue if indicative of HIT ( With or Without Thrombosis ) .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Fatal Medication Errors Do not use this product as a “ catheter lock flush ” product .
Heparin is supplied in various strengths .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred due to medication errors .
Carefully examine all heparin products to confirm the correct container choice prior to administration of the drug .
5 . 2 Hemorrhage Hemorrhage , including fatal events , has occurred in patients receiving HEPARIN SODIUM .
Avoid using heparin in the presence of major bleeding , except when the benefits of heparin therapy outweigh the potential risks .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Adrenal hemorrhage ( with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency ) , ovarian hemorrhage , and retroperitoneal hemorrhage have occurred during anticoagulant therapy with heparin [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
An unexplained fall in hematocrit or fall in blood pressure should lead to serious consideration of a hemorrhagic event .
Use heparin sodium with caution in disease states in which there is increased risk of hemorrhage , including : • Cardiovascular — Subacute bacterial endocarditis .
Severe hypertension .
• Surgical — During and immediately following ( a ) spinal tap or spinal anesthesia or ( b ) major surgery , especially involving the brain , spinal cord or eye .
• Hematologic — Conditions associated with increased bleeding tendencies , such as hemophilia , thrombocytopenia and some vascular purpuras .
• Patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency receiving concurrent antithrombin III therapy – The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , reduce the heparin dose during concomitant treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) .
• Gastrointestinal — Ulcerative lesions and continuous tube drainage of the stomach or small intestine .
Other — Menstruation , liver disease with impaired hemostasis .
5 . 3 Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) ( With or Without Thrombosis ) HIT is a serious antibody - mediated reaction resulting from irreversible aggregation of platelets .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition known as HIT with thrombosis .
Thrombotic events may also be the initial presentation for HIT .
These serious thromboembolic events include deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , cerebral vein thrombosis , limb ischemia , stroke , myocardial infarction , thrombus formation on a prosthetic cardiac valve , mesenteric thrombosis , renal arterial thrombosis , skin necrosis , gangrene of the extremities that may lead to amputation , and possibly death .
Monitor thrombocytopenia of any degree closely .
If the platelet count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant .
HIT can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy .
Patients presenting with thrombocytopenia or thrombosis after discontinuation of heparin should be evaluated for HIT .
5 . 4 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported to occur in patients receiving heparin with a reported incidence of up to 30 % .
It can occur 2 to 20 days ( average 5 to 9 ) following the onset of heparin therapy .
Obtain platelet counts before and periodically during heparin therapy .
Monitor thrombocytopenia of any degree closely .
If the count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Patients with documented hypersensitivity to heparin should be given the drug only in clearly life - threatening situations [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Because Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is derived from animal tissue , monitor for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity when it is used in patients with a history of allergy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Fatal Medication Errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) ( With or Without Thrombosis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are : hemorrhage , thrombocytopenia , HIT ( with or without thrombosis ) , hypersensitivity reactions , and elevations of aminotransferase levels .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact B . Braun Medical Inc . at 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of heparin sodium .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
• Hemorrhage - Hemorrhage is the chief complication that may result from heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal or urinary tract bleeding during anticoagulant therapy may indicate the presence of an underlying occult lesion .
Bleeding can occur at any site but certain specific hemorrhagic complications may be difficult to detect : • Adrenal hemorrhage , with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency , has occurred with heparin therapy , including fatal cases .
Ovarian ( corpus luteum ) hemorrhage developed in a number of women of reproductive age receiving short - or long - term anticoagulant therapy .
• Retroperitoneal hemorrhage .
• Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) ( With or Without Thrombosis ) and Thrombocytopenia : [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 and 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity - Generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with chills , fever , and urticaria as the most usual manifestations , and asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , headache , nausea and vomiting , and anaphylactoid reactions , including shock , occurring more rarely .
Itching and burning , especially on the plantar site of the feet , may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Elevations of serum aminotransferases – Significant elevations of aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels have occurred in patients who have received heparin .
• Others - Osteoporosis following long - term administration of high - doses of heparin , cutaneous necrosis after systemic administration , suppression of aldosterone synthesis , delayed transient alopecia , priapism , and rebound hyperlipemia on discontinuation of heparin sodium have also been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation may induce bleeding .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as acetylsalicylic acid , dextran , phenylbutazone , ibuprofen , indomethacin , dipyridamole , hydroxychloroquine and others that interfere with platelet - aggregation reactions ( the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients ) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary In published reports , heparin exposure during pregnancy did not show evidence of an increased risk of adverse maternal or fetal outcomes in humans .
No teratogenicity was observed in animal reproduction studies with administration of heparin sodium to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses , approximately 2777 times the recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for maintenance of catheter patency of heparin [ see Data ] .
In pregnant animals , doses up to 2777 times higher than the human daily dose of heparin resulted in increased resorptions .
Consider the benefits and risks of HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION to a pregnant woman and possible risks to the fetus when prescribing HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data The maternal and fetal outcomes associated with uses of heparin via various dosing methods and administration routes during pregnancy have been investigated in numerous studies .
These studies generally reported normal deliveries with no maternal or fetal bleeding and no other complications .
Animal Data In a published study conducted in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received heparin intravenously during organogenesis at a dose of 10 , 000 USP units / kg / day , approximately 2777 times the human daily dose .
The number of early resorptions increased in both species .
There was no evidence of teratogenic effects .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Due to its large molecular weight , heparin is not likely to be excreted in human milk , and any heparin in milk would not be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from HEPARIN SODIUM IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION or from the underlying maternal condition [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There are limited adequate and well - controlled studies in patients 65 years and older .
However , a higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients over 60 years of age , especially women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Bleeding is the chief sign of heparin overdosage .
Neutralization of heparin effect : When clinical circumstances ( bleeding ) require reversal of heparinization , protamine sulfate ( 1 % solution ) by slow infusion will neutralize heparin sodium .
No more than 50 mg should be administered , very slowly , in any 10 minute period .
Each mg of protamine sulfate neutralizes approximately 100 USP Heparin Units .
The amount of protamine required decreases over time as heparin is metabolized .
Although the metabolism of heparin is complex , it may , for the purpose of choosing a protamine dose , be assumed to have a half - life of about 1 / 2 hour after intravenous injection .
Because fatal reactions often resembling anaphylaxis have been reported , protamine sulfate should be given only when resuscitation techniques and treatment of anaphylactoid shock are readily available .
For additional information , consult the prescribing information for Protamine Sulfate Injection , USP .
11 DESCRIPTION Heparin is a heterogenous group of straight - chain anionic mucopolysaccharides , called glycosaminoglycans having anticoagulant properties .
It is composed of polymers of alternating derivations of alpha - L - iduronic acid 2 - sulfate ( 1 ) , 2 - deoxy - 2 - sulfamino - alpha - D - glucose 6 - sulfate ( 2 ) , beta - D - glucuronic acid ( 3 ) , 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - alpha - D - glucose ( 4 ) , and alpha - L - iduronic acid ( 5 ) .
Structure of Heparin Sodium ( representative subunits ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Heparin Sodium 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution prepared from Heparin Sodium USP ( derived from porcine intestinal mucosa and standardized for use as an anticoagulant ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
It is to be administered by intravenous injection .
The potency is determined by a biological assay using a USP reference standard based on units of heparin activity per milligram .
Each 100 mL contains 0 . 43 g Dibasic Sodium Phosphate • 7H2O USP and 0 . 037 g Citric Acid Anhydrous USP as a buffer system , 0 . 9 g Sodium Chloride USP , and Water for Injection USP qs .
pH : 7 . 0 ( 6 . 8 - 7 . 2 ) ; Calculated Osmolarity : 360 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 186 ; Chloride 154 ; Phosphate ( HPO [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) 32 ; Citrate 6 The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
The plastic container is not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The closure system has two ports ; the one for the administration set has a tamper evident plastic protector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Heparin inhibits reactions that lead to the clotting of blood and the formation of fibrin clots both in vitro and in vivo .
Heparin acts at multiple sites in the normal coagulation system .
Small amounts of heparin in combination with antithrombin III ( heparin cofactor ) can inhibit thrombosis by inactivating activated Factor X and inhibiting the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin .
Once active thrombosis has developed , larger amounts of heparin can inhibit further coagulation by inactivating thrombin and preventing the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin .
Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Bleeding time is usually unaffected by heparin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Loglinear plots of heparin plasma concentrations with time for a wide range of dose levels are linear which suggests the absence of zero order processes .
Liver and the reticuloendothelial system are the sites of biotransformation .
The biphasic elimination curve , a rapidly declining alpha phase ( t ½ = 10 minutes ) and after the age of 40 a slower beta phase , indicates uptake in organs .
The absence of a relationship between anticoagulant half - life and concentration half - life may reflect factors such as protein binding of heparin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , reproduction studies in animals to determine effects on fertility of males and females , and studies to determine mutagenic potential have not been conducted .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Heparin Sodium in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in Full Fill 500 mL EXCEL ® Containers packaged 24 per case .
NDC REF Concentration Size 0264 - 9872 - 10 P8721 Heparin Sodium 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 500 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Storage in automated dispensing machines : Brief exposure up to 2 weeks to ultraviolet or fluorescent light does not adversely affect the product labeling legibility ; prolonged exposure can cause fading of the red label .
Rotate stock frequently .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hemorrhage Inform patients that it may take them longer than usual to stop bleeding , that they may bruise and / or bleed more easily when they are treated with heparin , and that they should report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their physician .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Prior to Surgery Advise patients to inform physicians and dentists that they are receiving heparin before any surgery is scheduled [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia Inform patients of the risk of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition known as heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis ( HITT ) .
HIT ( With or Without Thrombosis ) can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported .
Other Medications Because of the risk of hemorrhage , advise patients to inform their physicians and dentists of all medications they are taking , including non - prescription medications , and before starting any new medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Rx only EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y36 - 002 - 901 LD - 240 - 8 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL HEPARIN SODIUM 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection NDC 0264 - 9872 - 10 500 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER 1 , 000 USP units per 500 mL ( 2 USP units per mL ) HEPARIN LD - 312 - 6 Y94 - 003 - 292 Each 100 mL contains : Heparin Sodium USP ( porcine intestinal mucosa ) 200 USP Heparin units Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g Dibasic Sodium Phosphate • 7H2O USP 0 . 43 g Citric Acid Anhydrous USP 0 . 037 g Water for Injection USP qs Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 186 Chloride 154 Phosphate ( HPO [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) 32 Citrate 6 WARNING : CONTAINS SULFITES .
Do not admix with other drugs .
Sterile .
Single dose container .
For intravenous use only .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
REF P8721 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA API from Spain LD - 311 - 5 Y94 - 003 - 291 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
