Active Ingredients Menthol , 10 % Camphor , 3 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscle and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains Warnings For external use only Do not Apply to open wounds , or damaged , broken , or irritated skin Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days Caution • Discontinue use if there is redness or excessive irritation on skin • Avoid contact with eyes • Arthritis : If pain persists more than 10 days or redness is present , or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age , consult a physician immediately Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area not more than 3 times daily • Children under 2 years old : consult a doctor • Tear and apply in a circle of 25 mm diameter to affected area and spread smoothly over the skin with fingers • Wash fingers that applied cream with water .
Do not rub eyes with fingers until washed with water Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Aqua ( Deionized water ) , Arnica Montana flower extract , Ascorbic Acid ( Vitamin C ) , Beta Glucan , Boswellia Extract , Ceramide NG , Cetearyl Olivate , Cetyl Alcohol , Chamomilla Recutita ( Chamomile ) Extract , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Fruit Extract , Distearyldimonium Chloride , Gluconolactone , Glyceryl Stearate , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( sunflower ) oil , Lactic acid , Magnesium Sulfate , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea tree ) oil , Xanathan Gum , Methylsulfonylmethane ( MSM ) , PPG 12 / SMD1 copolymer , Retinyl Palmitate ( Vitamin A ) , Saccharide Isomerate , SD - Alcohol 40 B , Sodium Benzoate , Sorbitan Olivate , Tapioca Starch , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Zemea ( Corn ) Propanediol FLEX24 RECOVER NATURALLY PAIN CREAM SAMPLE PACK NET wt .
0 . 14 oz ( 3 . 8 g ) Dist : FLEX24 , INC .
4020 GALT OCEAN DRIVE , STE . 1607 FORT LAUDERDALE , FL 33308 CALL TOLL FREE 844 . 4 .
FLEX24 NDC 73218 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
