WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA • • Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
There is no known treatment for TD .
The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Discontinue metoclopramide in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD .
In some patients , symptoms may lessen or resolve after metoclopramide is stopped [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer - term use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
There is no known treatment for TD .
The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage ( 5 . 1 ) • • Discontinue metoclopramide in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD ( 5 . 1 ) • • Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the risk of developing TD with longer - term use ( 5 . 1 , 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) Boxed Warning 8 / 2017 Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 8 / 2017 Dosage and Administration , Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux ( 2 . 2 ) 8 / 2017 Dosage and Administration , Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis ( 2 . 3 ) 8 / 2017 Contraindications ( 4 ) 8 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Tardive Dyskinesia ( 5 . 1 ) 8 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms ( 5 . 2 ) 8 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( 5 . 3 ) 8 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Hyperprolactinemia ( 5 . 7 ) 8 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the : • • Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
• • Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis .
Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the : • • Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
( 1 ) • • Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates .
( 1 , 8 . 4 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gastroesophageal Reflux ( 2 . 2 ) • • Administer metoclopramide continuously or intermittently : • • Continuous : Administer 10 to 15 mg , 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ( maximum of 60 mg per day ) for 4 to 12 weeks .
• • Intermittent : Single doses up to 20 mg prior to provoking situation .
Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis ( 2 . 3 ) • • Administer 10 mg , 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ( maximum of 40 mg per day ) for 2 to 8 weeks Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • • For gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis , see Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions for elderly patients , in patients with moderate or severe hepatic or renal impairment , and cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers .
2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer - term use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide tablets may be administered continuously or intermittently in patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy : Continuous Dosing The recommended adult dosage of metoclopramide is 10 to 15 mg four times daily for 4 to 12 weeks .
The treatment duration is determined by endoscopic response .
Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime .
The maximum recommended daily dosage is 60 mg .
Table 1 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) , in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute , in cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers , and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Intermittent Dosing If symptoms only occur intermittently or at specific times of the day , administer metoclopramide in single dose up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation .
Consider dosage reductions for the populations and situations in Table 1 Table 1 .
Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 to 15 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 60 mg Mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] 5 mg [ 1 ] four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) , or 10 mg taken three times daily 30 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] Patients with End - Stage Renal Disease ( ESRD ) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) or 10 mg twice daily 20 mg [ 1 ] Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide ; therefore , consider a lower starting dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 to 15 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability .
2 . 3 Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis The recommended adult dosage for the treatment of acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis is 10 mg four times daily for 2 to 8 weeks , depending on symptomatic response .
Avoid metoclopramide treatment for greater than 12 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime .
The maximum recommended daily dosage is 40 mg .
Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) , in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute , in cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers , and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors .
If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take oral metoclopramide tablets , consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days ( see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection ) .
After patients are able to take oral therapy , switch to metoclopramide tablets .
Table 2 .
Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult Patients 10 mg four times daily ( 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 40 mg Mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] 5 mg [ 1 ] four times daily ( 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 20 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] Patients with End - Stage Renal Disease ( ESRD ) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] 5 mg twice daily 10 mg [ 1 ] Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide ; therefore , consider a lower dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each white , round tablet imprinted with “ p ” on one side and 685 and bisect on the other side contains 10 mg of metoclopramide ( as the hydrochloride ) .
Tablets : 10 mg metoclopramide ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide is contraindicated : • • In patients with a history of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) or a dystonic reaction to metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( e . g . , in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage , mechanical obstruction , or perforation ) .
• • In patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas .
Metoclopramide may cause a hypertensive / pheochromocytoma crisis , probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • In patients with epilepsy .
Metoclopramide may increase the frequency and severity of seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• • In patients with hypersensitivity to metoclopramide .
Reactions have included laryngeal and glossal angioedema and bronchospasm [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• • History of TD or dystonic reaction to metoclopramide ( 4 ) • • When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( 4 ) • • Pheochromocytoma , catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas ( 4 ) • • Epilepsy ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to metoclopramide ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tardive Dyskinesia ( TD ) , Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms ( EPS ) , and Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) : Avoid concomitant use of other drugs known to cause TD / EPS / NMS and avoid use in patients with Parkinson ’ s Disease .
If symptoms occur , discontinue metoclopramide and seek immediate medical attention .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) Depression and suicidal ideation / suicide : Avoid use .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Tardive Dyskinesia Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a syndrome of potentially irreversible and disfiguring involuntary movements of the face or tongue , and sometimes of the trunk and / or extremities .
Movements may be choreoathetotic in appearance .
The risk of developing TD and the likelihood that TD will become irreversible increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage .
Additionally , the risk of developing TD is increased among the elderly , especially elderly women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] , and in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Due to the risk of developing TD , avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks and reduce the dosage in elderly patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Discontinue metoclopramide immediately in patients who develop signs and symptoms of TD .
There is no known effective treatment for established cases of TD , although in some patients TD may remit , partially or completely , within several weeks to months after metoclopramide is withdrawn .
Metoclopramide itself may suppress , or partially suppress , the signs of TD , thereby masking the underlying disease process .
The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long - term course of TD is unknown .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with a history of TD [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving other drugs that are likely to cause TD ( e . g . , antipsychotics ) .
5 . 2 Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms In addition to TD , metoclopramide may cause other extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , parkinsonian symptoms , and motor restlessness .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur and to discontinue metoclopramide .
• • Extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , such as acute dystonic reactions , occurred in patients treated with metoclopramide dosages of 30 mg to 40 mg daily .
Such reactions occurred more frequently in adults less than 30 years of age and at higher than recommended dosages .
EPS occurred more frequently in pediatric patients compared to adults ( Metoclopramide is not approved for use in pediatric patients ) .
Symptoms can occur in the first 24 to 48 hours after starting metoclopramide .
Symptoms included involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus .
Rarely , dystonic reactions were present as stridor and dyspnea , possibly due to laryngospasm .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride or benztropine mesylate may be used to treat these adverse reactions .
Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving other drugs that can cause EPS ( e . g . , antipsychotics ) .
• • Parkinsonian symptoms ( bradykinesia , tremor , cogwheel rigidity , mask - like facies ) have occurred after starting metoclopramide , more commonly within the first 6 months , but also after longer periods .
Symptoms generally have subsided within 2 to 3 months after discontinuation of metoclopramide .
Avoid metoclopramide in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease and other patients being treated with antiparkinsonian drugs due to potential exacerbation of symptoms .
Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for more than 12 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Motor restlessness ( akathisia ) has developed and consisted of feelings of anxiety , agitation , jitteriness , and insomnia , as well as inability to sit still , pacing , and foot tapping .
If symptoms resolve , consider restarting at a lower dosage .
5 . 3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome Metoclopramide may cause a potentially fatal symptom complex called neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS has been reported in association with metoclopramide overdosage and concomitant treatment with another drug associated with NMS .
Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving other drugs associated with NMS , including typical and atypical antipsychotics .
Clinical manifestations of NMS include hyperpyrexia , muscle rigidity , altered mental status , and manifestations of autonomic instability ( irregular pulse or blood pressure , tachycardia , diaphoresis , and cardiac arrhythmias ) .
Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase , myoglobinuria ( rhabdomyolysis ) , and acute renal failure .
Patients with such symptoms should be evaluated immediately .
In the diagnostic evaluation , consider the presence of other serious medical conditions ( e . g . , pneumonia , systemic infection ) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , malignant hyperthermia , drug fever , serotonin syndrome , and primary central nervous system pathology .
Management of NMS includes : • • Immediate discontinuation of metoclopramide and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • Intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring .
• • Treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
5 . 4 Depression Depression has occurred in metoclopramide - treated patients with and without a history of depression .
Symptoms have included suicidal ideation and suicide .
Avoid metoclopramide use in patients with a history of depression .
5 . 5 Hypertension Metoclopramide may elevate blood pressure .
In one study in hypertensive patients , intravenously administered metoclopramide was shown to release catecholamines ; hence , avoid use in patients with hypertension or in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
There are also clinical reports of hypertensive crises in patients with undiagnosed pheochromocytoma .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Discontinue metoclopramide in any patient with a rapid rise in blood pressure .
5 . 6 Fluid Retention Because metoclopramide produces a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , patients with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure may be at risk of developing fluid retention and volume overload .
Discontinue metoclopramide if any of these adverse reactions occur .
5 . 7 Hyperprolactinemia As with other dopamine D 2 receptor antagonists , metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels .
Hyperprolactinemia may suppress hypothalamic GnRH , resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion .
This , in turn , may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients .
Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence have been reported with prolactin - elevating drugs , including metoclopramide .
Hyperprolactinemia may potentially stimulate prolactin - dependent breast cancer .
However , some clinical studies and epidemiology studies have not shown an association between administration of dopamine D 2 receptor antagonists and tumorigenesis in humans [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Effects on the Ability to Drive and Operate Machinery Metoclopramide may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Concomitant use of central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants or drugs associated with EPS may increase this effect ( e . g . , alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , and anxiolytics ) .
Avoid metoclopramide or the interacting drug , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections of the labeling : • • Tardive dyskinesia [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Other extrapyramidal effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Fluid retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Hyperprolactinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified from clinical studies or postmarketing reports of metoclopramide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions ( in approximately 10 % of patients receiving 10 mg of metoclopramide four times daily ) were restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude .
In general , the incidence of adverse reactions correlated with the dosage and duration of metoclopramide administration .
Adverse reactions , especially those involving the nervous system , occurred after stopping metoclopramide including dizziness , nervousness , and headaches .
Central Nervous System Disorders • • Tardive dyskinesia , acute dystonic reactions , drug - induced parkinsonism , akathisia , and other extrapyramidal symptoms • • Convulsive seizures • • Hallucinations • • Restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude occurred in approximately 10 % of patients who received 10 mg four times daily .
Insomnia , headache , confusion , dizziness , or depression with suicidal ideation occurred less frequently .
• • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome , serotonin syndrome ( in combination with serotonergic agents ) .
Endocrine Disorders : Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone .
Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia Cardiovascular Disorders : Acute congestive heart failure , possible atrioventricular block , hypotension , hypertension , supraventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , fluid retention Gastrointestinal Disorders : Nausea , bowel disturbances ( primarily diarrhea ) Hepatic Disorders : Hepatotoxicity , characterized by , e . g . , jaundice and altered liver function tests , when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential Renal and Urinary Disorders : Urinary frequency , urinary incontinence Hematologic Disorders : Agranulocytosis , neutropenia , leukopenia , methemoglobinemia , sulfhemoglobinemia Hypersensitivity Reactions : Bronchospasm ( especially in patients with a history of asthma ) , urticaria ; rash ; angioedema , including glossal or laryngeal edema Eye Disorders : Visual disturbances Metabolism Disorders : Porphyria • • Most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) are restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Antipsychotics : Potential for additive effects , including TD , EPS , and NMS ; avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • • CNS depressants : Increased risk of CNS depression .
Avoid concomitant use and monitor for adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) : See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • MAO inhibitors : Increased risk of hypertension ; avoid concomitant use .
( 5 . 5 , 7 . 1 ) • • Additional drug interactions : See Full Prescribing Information .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Table 3 displays the effects of other drugs on metoclopramide .
Table 3 .
Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Antipsychotics Clinical Impact Potential for additive effects , including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , other extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors , not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide ; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the metoclopramide dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Examples quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use .
Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid metoclopramide or the interacting drug , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient .
Examples alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates and anxiolytics Drugs that Impair Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact Decreased systemic absorption of metoclopramide .
Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect .
Examples antiperistaltic antidiarrheal drugs , anticholinergic drugs , and opiates Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Decreased therapeutic effect of metoclopramide due to opposing effects on dopamine .
Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect .
Examples apomorphine , bromocriptine , cabergoline , levodopa , pramipexole , ropinirole , and rotigotine 7 . 2 Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Table 4 displays the effects of metoclopramide on other drugs .
Table 4 .
Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Dopaminergic Agonists and Drugs Increasing Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Opposing effects of metoclopramide and the interacting drug on dopamine .
Potential exacerbation of symptoms ( e . g . , parkinsonian symptoms ) .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Examples Apomorphine , bromocriptine , cabergoline , levodopa , pramipexole , ropinirole , rotigotine Succinylcholine , Mivacurium Clinical Impact Metoclopramide inhibits plasma cholinesterase leading to enhanced neuromuscular blockade .
Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of prolonged neuromuscular blockade Drugs with Absorption Altered due to Increased Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact The effect of metoclopramide on other drugs is variable .
Increased gastrointestinal ( GI ) motility by metoclopramide may impact absorption of other drugs leading to decreased or increased drug exposure .
Intervention Drugs with Decreased Absorption ( e . g . , digoxin , atovaquone , posaconazole oral suspension * , fosfomycin ) : Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect of the interacting drug .
For digoxin monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and increase the digoxin dose as needed ( see prescribing information for digoxin ) .
Drugs with Increased Absorption ( e . g . , sirolimus , tacrolimus , cyclosporine ) : Monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and adjust the dose as needed .
See prescribing information for the interacting drug .
Insulin Clinical Impact Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose .
Intervention Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin dosage regimen as needed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Published studies , including retrospective cohort studies , national registry studies , and meta - analyses , do not report an increased risk of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes with use of metoclopramide during pregnancy .
There are potential risks to the neonate following exposure in utero to metoclopramide during delivery [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of metoclopramide to pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures about 6 and 12 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Metoclopramide crosses the placental barrier and may cause extrapyramidal signs and methemoglobinemia in neonates with maternal administration during delivery .
Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal signs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed following administration of oral metoclopramide during organogenesis in pregnant rats at about 6 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area and in pregnant rabbits at about 12 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area .
No evidence of adverse developmental effects due to metoclopramide were observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published data report the presence of metoclopramide in human milk in variable amounts .
Breastfed infants exposed to metoclopramide have experienced gastrointestinal adverse reactions , including intestinal discomfort and increased intestinal gas formation [ see Data ] .
Metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] ; however , the published data are not adequate to support drug effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for metoclopramide and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from metoclopramide or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding neonates because metoclopramide may cause extrapyramidal signs ( dystonias ) and methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Data In published clinical studies , the estimated amount of metoclopramide received by the breastfed infant was less than 10 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dose .
In one study , the estimated daily amount of metoclopramide received by infants from breast milk ranged from 6 to 24 mcg / kg / day in early puerperium ( 3 to 9 days postpartum ) and from 1 to 13 mcg / kg / day at 8 to 12 weeks postpartum .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Metoclopramide is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates .
The safety and effectiveness of metoclopramide in pediatric patients have not been established .
Dystonias and other extrapyramidal symptoms associated with metoclopramide are more common in pediatric patients than in adults [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
In addition , neonates have reduced levels of NADH - cytochrome b 5 reductase , making them more susceptible to methemoglobinemia , a possible adverse reaction of metoclopramide use in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Metoclopramide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions , including tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , may be greater in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function and may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide ; therefore , consider a reduced dosage of metoclopramide in elderly patients [ see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The clearance of metoclopramide is decreased and the systemic exposure is increased in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions .
Reduce the metoclopramide dosage in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) , including those receiving hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have reduced systemic metoclopramide clearance ( by approximately 50 % ) compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
The resulting increase in metoclopramide blood concentrations increases the risk of adverse reactions .
There is no pharmacokinetic data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) .
Reduce metoclopramide dosage in patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh B or C ) hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
There is no dosage adjustment required for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) .
In addition , metoclopramide , by producing a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , may increase the risk of fluid retention in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Monitor patients with hepatic impairment for the occurrence of fluid retention and volume overload .
8 . 8 NADH - Cytochrome b 5 Reductase Deficiency Metoclopramide - treated patients with NADH - cytochrome b 5 reductase deficiency are at an increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia and / or sulfhemoglobinemia .
For patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency with metoclopramide - induced methemoglobinemia , methylene blue treatment is not recommended .
Methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , which may be fatal [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
8 . 9 CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Metoclopramide is a substrate of CYP2D6 .
The elimination of metoclopramide may be slowed in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers ( compared to patients who are CYP2D6 intermediate , extensive , or ultra - rapid metabolizers ) ; possibly increasing the risk of dystonic and other adverse reactions to metoclopramide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Reduce the metoclopramide dosage in patients who are poor CYP2D6 metabolizers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of metoclopramide overdosage included drowsiness , disorientation , extrapyramidal reactions , other adverse reactions associated with metoclopramide use ( including , e . g . , methemoglobinemia ) , and sometimes death .
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) has been reported in association with metoclopramide overdose and concomitant treatment with another drug associated with NMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
There are no specific antidotes for metoclopramide overdosage .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue .
However , methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency , which may be fatal .
Hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis do not remove significant amounts of metoclopramide .
11 DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide hydrochloride , USP the active ingredient of metoclopramide tablets , USP , is a dopamine - 2 receptor antagonist .
Metoclopramide hydrochloride , USP ( metoclopramide monohydrochloride monohydrate ) is a white , crystalline , odorless substance , very soluble in water , freely soluble in ethanol 96 % , sparingly soluble in chloroform / dichloromethane , practically insoluble in ether .
Chemically , it is 4 - amino - 5 - chloro - N - [ 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] - o - anisamide monohydrochloride monohydrate .
The molecular formula is C 14 H 22 ClN 3 O 2 • HCl • H 2 O .
Its molecular weight is 354 . 3 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration , contains metoclopramide hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 10 mg of metoclopramide .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , magnesium stearate , mannitol and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric , biliary , or pancreatic secretions .
The exact mechanism of action of metoclopramide in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis has not been fully established .
It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine .
The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation , but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs .
Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric ( especially antral ) contractions , relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb , and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit .
It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter .
It has little , if any , effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Gastroesophageal Reflux In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low lower esophageal sphincter pressure ( LESP ) , single oral doses of metoclopramide produced dose - related increases in LESP .
Effects began at about 5 mg and increased through 20 mg .
The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasted about 45 minutes and that of 20 mg lasted between 2 and 3 hours .
Increased rate of stomach emptying was observed with single oral doses of 10 mg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg , the absolute bioavailability of oral metoclopramide is 80 % ± 15 . 5 % as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects .
Peak plasma concentrations occurred at about 1 to 2 hours after a single oral dose .
Similar time to peak was observed after individual doses at steady state .
In a single dose study of 12 subjects , the area under the drug concentration - time curve increased linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg ( 5 times the maximum recommended single dose ) .
Peak concentrations increased linearly with dose ; time to peak concentrations remained the same ; whole body clearance was unchanged ; and the elimination rate remained the same .
The mean elimination half - life in subjects with normal renal function was 5 to 6 hours .
Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide .
Distribution Metoclopramide is not extensively bound to plasma proteins ( about 30 % ) .
The whole body volume of distribution is high ( about 3 . 5 L / kg ) , which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues .
Elimination Metabolism : Metoclopramide undergoes enzymatic metabolism via oxidation as well as glucuronide and sulfate conjugation reactions in the liver .
Monodeethylmetoclopramide , a major oxidative metabolite , is formed primarily by CYP2D6 , an enzyme subject to genetic variability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] .
Excretion : Approximately 85 % of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appeared in the urine within 72 hours .
After oral administration of 10 or 20 mg , a mean of 18 % and 22 % of the dose , respectively , was recovered as free metoclopramide in urine within 36 hours .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment : In a study of 24 patients with varying degrees of renal impairment ( moderate , severe , and end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring dialysis ) , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) of metoclopramide in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment was about 2 - fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function .
The AUC of metoclopramide in patients with ESRD on dialysis was about 3 . 5 - fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : In a group of 8 patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) , the average metoclopramide clearance was reduced by approximately 50 % compared to patients with normal hepatic function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Metoclopramide on CYP2D6 Substrates Although in vitro studies suggest that metoclopramide can inhibit CYP2D6 , metoclopramide is unlikely to interact with CYP2D6 substrates in vivo at therapeutically relevant concentrations .
Effect of CYP2D6 Inhibitors on Metoclopramide In healthy subjects , 20 mg of metoclopramide and 60 mg of fluoxetine ( a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor ) were administered , following prior exposure to 60 mg fluoxetine orally for 8 days .
The patients who received concomitant metoclopramide and fluoxetine had a 40 % and 90 % increase in metoclopramide C max and AUC 0 - ∞ respectively , compared to patients who received metoclopramide alone ( see Table 5 ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Table 5 .
Metoclopramide Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects with and without Fluoxetine Parameter Metoclopramide alone ( mean ± SD ) Metoclopramide with fluoxetine ( mean ± SD ) C max ( ng / mL ) 44 ± 15 62 . 7 ± 9 . 2 AUC 0 - ∞ ( ngˑh / mL ) 313 ± 113 591 ± 140 t 1 / 2 ( h ) 5 . 5 ± 1 . 1 8 . 5 ± 2 . 2 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis A 77 - week study was conducted in rats with oral metoclopramide doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( about six times the maximum recommended human dose on body surface area basis ) .
Metoclopramide elevated prolactin levels and the elevation persisted during chronic administration .
An increase in mammary neoplasms was found in rodents after chronic administration of metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
In a rat model for assessing the tumor promotion potential , a 2 - week oral treatment with metoclopramide at a dose of 260 mg / kg / day ( about 35 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) enhanced the tumorigenic effect of N - nitrosodiethylamine .
Mutagenesis Metoclopramide was positive in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell / HGPRT forward mutation assay for mutagenic effects and in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay for clastogenic effects .
It was negative in the in vitro Ames mutation assay , the in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis assay with rat and human hepatocytes , and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Metoclopramide at intramuscular doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( about three times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
16 HOW SUPPLIED 10 mg – Each white , round tablet imprinted with “ p ” on one side and 685 and bisect on the other side contains 10 mg of metoclopramide ( as the hydrochloride ) .
Overbagged with 10 tablets per bag , NDC 55154 - 8196 - 0 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Inform patients or their caregivers that metoclopramide can cause serious adverse reactions .
Instruct patients to discontinue metoclopramide and contact a healthcare provider immediately if the following serious reactions occur : • • Tardive dyskinesia and other extrapyramidal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] • • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Depression and / or possible suicidal ideation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Inform patients or their caregivers that concomitant treatment with numerous other medications can precipitate or worsen serious adverse reactions such as tardive dyskinesia or other extrapyramidal reactions , neuroleptic malignant syndrome , and CNS depression [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
Explain that the prescriber of any other medication must be made aware that the patient is taking metoclopramide .
Inform patients or their caregivers that metoclopramide can cause drowsiness or dizziness , or otherwise impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
PACKAGING INFORMATION Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 Distributed by : Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 L57045640921 8267601 / 0220 MEDICATION GUIDE 8267601 / 0220 METOCLOPRAMIDE TABLETS , USP ( met - o - clo - pra - míde ) metoclopramide tablets , oral use Read this Medication Guide before you start taking metoclopramide and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
If you take another product that contains metoclopramide ( such as metoclopramide injection , Metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets , or metoclopramide oral solution ) , you should read the Medication Guide that comes with that product .
Some of the information may be different .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about metoclopramide ?
Metoclopramide can cause serious side effects , including : Tardive dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
These movements happen mostly in the face muscles .
You cannot control these movements .
They may not go away even after stopping metoclopramide .
There is no treatment for tardive dyskinesia , but symptoms may decrease or go away over time after you stop taking metoclopramide .
Your chances for getting tardive dyskinesia increase : • • the longer you take metoclopramide and the more metoclopramide you take .
You should not take metoclopramide for more than 12 weeks .
• • if you are older , especially if you are an older woman .
• • if you have diabetes .
• • It is not possible for your healthcare provider to know if you will get tardive dyskinesia if you take metoclopramide .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get movements you cannot stop or control , such as : • • lip smacking , chewing , or puckering up your mouth • • frowning or scowling • • sticking out your tongue • • blinking and moving your eyes • • shaking of your arms and legs See the section " What are the possible side effects of metoclopramide ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is metoclopramide ?
Metoclopramide is a prescription medicine used in adults : • • for 4 to 12 weeks to relieve heartburn symptoms with gastroesophageal reflux when certain other treatments do not work .
• • to relieve the symptoms of slow stomach emptying in people with diabetes .
Metoclopramide is not recommended for use in children .
Do not take metoclopramide if you : • • have a history of tardive dyskinesia or have a problem controlling your muscles and movements after taking metoclopramide or a medicine that works like metoclopramide .
• • have stomach or intestine problems that could get worse with metoclopramide , such as bleeding , blockage or a tear in the stomach or bowel wall .
• • have a type of tumor that can cause high blood pressure such as pheochromocytoma .
• • have epilepsy ( seizures ) .
Metoclopramide can increase your chance for seizures and make them worse .
• • are allergic to metoclopramide .
Metoclopramide can cause serious allergic reactions .
Stop taking metoclopramide right away and get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • • swelling of your tongue , throat , lips , eyes or face .
• • trouble swallowing or breathing .
• • skin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or skin blisters .
Before taking METOCLOPRAMIDE , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have diabetes .
Your dose of insulin may need to be changed .
• • had problems controlling your muscle movements after taking any medicine .
• • have Parkinson ’ s disease .
• • have a type of tumor that can cause high blood pressure ( pheochromocytoma ) .
• • have kidney or liver disease .
• • have or had depression or mental illness .
• • have high blood pressure .
• • have heart failure or heart rhythm problems .
• • have breast cancer .
• • drink alcohol .
• • have seizures • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metoclopramide may harm your unborn baby if taken during the end of pregnancy .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while taking metoclopramide .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Metoclopramide can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take metoclopramide or breastfeed .
• • Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
• • Metoclopramide may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how metoclopramide works .
• • Tell your healthcare provider before you start or stop other medicines .
• • Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • another medicine that contains metoclopramide , such as metoclopramide injection or metoclopramide oral solution • • a medicine for Parkinson ’ s disease • • a blood pressure medicine • • a medicine for depression , especially a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) • • an anti - psychotic medicine , used to treat mental illness such as schizophrenia • • insulin • • medicines that can make you sleepy , such as anti - anxiety medicines , sleep medicines , and narcotics If you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take metoclopramide ?
• • Take metoclopramide exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Do not change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Metoclopramide comes as a tablet you take by mouth .
• • You should not take metoclopramide for more than 12 weeks .
• • Take metoclopramide at least 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime .
• • If you take too much metoclopramide , call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking metoclopramide ?
• • Do not drink alcohol while taking metoclopramide .
Alcohol may make some side effects of metoclopramide worse , such as feeling sleepy .
• • Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how metoclopramide affects you .
Metoclopramide may cause sleepiness or dizziness .
What are the possible side effects of metoclopramide ?
• • Tardive dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
See “ What is the most important information I need to know about metoclopramide ? ”
• • Other changes in muscle control and movement , such as : • • Uncontrolled spasms of your face and neck muscles , or muscles of your body , arms , and legs ( dystonia ) .
These muscle spasms can cause abnormal movements and body positions , and speech problems .
These spasms usually start within the first 2 days of treatment .
Rarely , these muscle spasms may cause trouble breathing .
These spasms happen more often in adults less than 30 years of age .
• • Parkinsonism .
Symptoms include slight shaking , body stiffness , trouble moving or keeping your balance .
If you already have Parkinson ' s Disease , your symptoms may become worse while you are taking metoclopramide .
• • Being unable to sit still or feeling you need to move your hands , feet , or body ( akathisia ) .
Symptoms can include feeling jittery , anxious , irritated or unable to sleep ( insomnia ) , feeling the need to walk around ( pacing ) and tapping your feet .
• • Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS is a very rare but very serious condition that can happen with metoclopramide .
NMS can cause death and must be treated in a hospital .
Symptoms of NMS include : high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating .
• • Depression , thoughts about suicide , and suicide .
Some people who take metoclopramide become depressed , even if they have no history of depression .
You may have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself .
Some people who have taken metoclopramide have ended their own lives ( suicide ) .
• • High blood pressure .
Metoclopramide can cause your blood pressure to increase .
• • Too much body water .
People who have certain liver problems or heart failure and take metoclopramide may hold too much water in their body ( fluid retention ) .
Tell your doctor right away if you have sudden weight gain , or swelling of your hands , legs , or feet .
• • Increased prolactin .
Tell your doctor if your menstrual periods stop , your breasts get larger and make milk , or you cannot have sex ( impotence ) .
These symptoms go away when you stop taking metoclopramide .
• • Call your healthcare provider and get medical help right away if you : • • feel depressed or have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself • • have high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating • • have muscle movements you cannot stop or control • • have muscle movements that are new or unusual • • The most common side effects of metoclopramide include : • • restlessness • • drowsiness • • tiredness • • lack of energy You may have more side effects the longer you take metoclopramide and the more metoclopramide you take .
You may still have side effects after stopping metoclopramide .
You may have symptoms from stopping metoclopramide such as headaches , and feeling dizzy or nervous .
Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of metoclopramide .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store metoclopramide ?
• • Store metoclopramide at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep metoclopramide and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of metoclopramide .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use metoclopramide for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give metoclopramide to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about metoclopramide that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in metoclopramide ?
Active ingredient : metoclopramide hydrochloride , equivalent to 10 mg of metoclopramide Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , magnesium stearate , mannitol and pregelatinized starch .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Made in India For more information , go to www . parpharm . com or call 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 .
Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 Distributed by : Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 L57045640921 8267601 / 0220 Package / Label Display Panel Metoclopramide Tablets , USP 10 mg 10 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
