Rx 0642 - 0070 - 30 COMPOSITION : Each Softgel Capsule Contains : VITAMINS AND MINERALS : Vitamin A ( as Vitamin A palmitate ) 330 mcg RAE Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 30 mg Vitamin D3 ( as cholecalciferol ) 25 mcg Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 9 mg Thiamine mononitrate ( Vitamin B1 ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg NE Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate ( as folic acid ) 1700 mcg DFE Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Elemental Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 29 mg Iodine ( as potassium iodide ) 150 mcg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 20 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 25 mg Copper ( as copper oxide ) 2 mg Algal oil blend ( derived from natural algal oil ) 415 mg [ 1 ] [ 1 ] providing 200 DHA ( docosahexaenoic acid ) Other Ingredients : Gelatin ( Bovine BSE - free ) , Sorbitol , Glycerin , Soybean Oil , USP Purified Water , Yellow Beeswax , Dicalcium Phosphate , Soy Lecithin , Vegetable Oil , FD & C Blue # 1 , Titanium Dioxide ( color ) , Sodium Thiosulfate , Caramel ( color ) , High Oleic Sunflower Oil , Tocopherols , Ascorbyl Palmitate .
Contains : Soy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vitafol - One is indicated to provide vitamin , mineral , and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother , including individuals with known allergies to fish .
Vitafol - One does not contain fish , fish oils , fish proteins or fish byproducts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol - One is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B - 12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Vitafol - One should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbitol , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; taken at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not recommended for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol - One .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , one softgel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol - One is available as a dark blue , oval shaped softgel capsule imprinted " EV0070 " .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 softgel capsules ) , ( 0642 - 0070 - 30 ) and as professional samples ( 0642 - 0070 - 03 ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat and moisture .
Rx Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2019 Exeltis USA , Inc .
U . S . Patent No . 8 , 183 , 227 Vitafol ® is a trademark of Exeltis USA , Inc .
Rev . April 2021 0703001 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Capsule Blister Pack Carton 0642 - 0070 - 30 VITAFOL One Prenatal Supplement with DHA Unit Dose Pack 30 Softgel Capsules RX DIETARY SUPPLEMENT U . S . PATENTED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
