Description LevigoLT is a Lidocaine HCI 4 % and Menthol 1 % topical anesthetic and analgesic cream indicated to temporarily relieve minor pain .
Active Ingredients Each gram of LevigoLT contains : Lidocaine HCI 4 % ( 40 mg ) Topical Anesthetic Menthol 1 % ( 10 mg ) Topical Analgesic Purpose Temporarily relieves minor pain associated with : arthritis , simple backache , sprains , bruises , muscles soreness , cramps Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut , irritated or swollen skin , puncture wounds , or for more than one week without consulting a doctor .
When Using This Product When using this product use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton .
* was hands with soap and water after applying * rare cases of serious burns have been reported with product of this type * do not bandage or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use or use with a medicated patch * avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes * atransient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days Ask Doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if * condition worsens * redness is present * irritation develops * symptoms persist more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days * you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
Pregnancy or Breast Feeding If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poinson Control Center right away .
Indications & Usage Directions : Adults and children over 12 year : * apply a thin layer to affected area every 6 to 8 hours , not to exceed 3 applications in a 24 - hour period * after applying , wash hands with soap and water * children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor .
Questions or Comments For questions or comments , call 1 - 800 - 635 - 3696 .
Dosage and Administration Distributed by : Topicare Therapeutics , LLC .
1925 Longmire Rd .
Building 2 , Conroe , TX 77304 Made in U . S . A . of U . S . and imported materials Inactive Ingredients Purified Water , Alcohol , Glycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , C12 - 13 Pareth - 23 , C12 - 13 Pareth - 3 , Cetearyl alcohol , Ceteth - 10 phosphate , Dicetyl phosphate , Glyceryl Stearate , Caprylhydroxamic acid , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Propanediol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium Hydroxide , Edetate Disodium Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Package Label .
Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
