ICY HOT PRODRY SPRAY Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Camphor 11 % , Menthol 16 % ............................................................................................................. Topical analgesic Use temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : ■ arthritis ■ simple backache ■ strains ■ sprains ■ bruises Warnings For external use only Extremely flammable : keep away from fire , sparks , and heated surfaces .
Contents under pressure , do not puncture or incinerate container .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Do not use ■ on wounds or on irritated or damaged skin ■ with a heating pad When using this product ■ use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating or inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
■ do not bandage tightly ■ avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Do not spray in face or mouth .
■ do not expose the area to local heat or direct sunlight ■ rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type ■ a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days ■ avoid applying into skin folds Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ redness is present or excessive skin irritation occurs ■ you experience severe burning pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : ▪ spray the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily ▪ product will dry quickly on its own , and does not need to be rubbed in ▪ wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after each use • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients : alcohol denat . , glycerin , isobutane , propylene glycol , water 357 - 097 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL ICY HOT PRO Pain Relief DRY SPRAY NET WT 4 oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
