Active ingredient Sodium Sufide 1 % Purpose Ingrown Toenail Pain Reliever Use • for the temporary releif of pain and discomfort from ingrown toenails For external use only .
Do not use on open sores .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • diabetes • poor blood circulation • gout When using this product • use with a retainer ring • avoid contact with eyes .
If prodcut gets into the eye , flush with water for 15 minutes and get medical help reight away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • redness or swelling of your toe increases • discharge is present around the nail • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 yers and over : • wash affected area and dry thoroghly • place retainer ring on toe with slot over the area where the ingrown nail and the skin meet .
Smooth ring down firmly • cut open tip of the tube on score mark .
Apply enough gel prodcut to fill the slot in the ring .
Immeciately replace cap on tube • place round center section of bandage directly over the gel - filled ring to seal the gel in place .
Smooth ends of bandage strips around toe • repeat twice daily ( morning and night ) for up to 7 days until pain discomfort is relieved or until the nail can be lifted out of the nail groove and easliy trimmed Children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other Information • save carton for complete warnings and information • keep tube tightly closed when not in use • store between 68 o anf 77 oF ( 20 o and 25 oC ) Inactive Ingredient edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , pottasium acetate , water Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Well at Walgreens Ingrown Toenail Relief Sodium Sulfide Gel 1 % • Relieves ingrown toenail pain • Softens nail • Cushions & protects afftected area 12 APPLICATIONS 12 RETAINER RING CUSHIONS 12 BANDAGES 1 TUBE OF TREATMENT GEL NET WT 8 . 5 g ( 0 . 3 OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
