Sterile Rx only DESCRIPTION GENTAK ® Gentamicin sulfate is a water soluble antibiotic of the aminoglycoside group .
Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic ointment is a sterile ointment for ophthalmic use .
Each gram contains gentamicin sulfate equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin in a base of white petrolatum and mineral oil , with methylparaben and propylparaben as preservatives .
Gentamicin is obtained from cultures of Micromonospora purpurea .
It is a mixture of the sulfate salts of gentamicin C1 C2 , and C1A .
All three components appear to have similar antimicrobial activities .
Gentamicin sulfate occurs as a white to buff powder and is soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology : Gentamicin sulfate is active in vitro against many strains of the following microorganisms : • Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic ointment is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , blepharitis , blepharonconjunctivitis : acute meibomianitis , and dacryocystitis , caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : • Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic ointment is con - traindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic ointment is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
PRECAUTIONS General : Prolonged use of topical antibiotics may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to gentamicin may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
If irritation or hypersensitivity to any component of the drug develops , the patient should discontinue use of this preparation and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal healing .
Information for patients : To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to the eye , eyelid or any surface .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There are no published carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility studies on gentamicin .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to be non - mutagenic .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Gentamicin has been shown to depress body weights , kidney weights and median glomerular counts in newborn rats when administered systemically to pregnant rats in daily doses approximately 500 times the maximum recommended ophthalmic human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Gentamicin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in neonates have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with gentamicin ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are ocular burning and irritation upon drug instillation , non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival epithelial defects and conjunctival hyperemia .
Other adverse reactions which have occurred rarely are allergic reactions , thrombocytopenic purpura and hallucinations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a small amount ( approximately 1 / 2 inch ribbon ) of ointment to the affected eye ( s ) two or three times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED GENTAK ® Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic ointment USP , 0 . 3 % is supplied in 3 . 5 g tube , box of one .
( NDC 17478 - 284 - 35 ) STORAGE : Store at 2 ° to 30 ° C ( 36 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Akorn Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 GKO00N Rev . 06 / 16 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 284 - 35 Akorn Logo Gentak ® brand of Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment USP , 0 . 3 % ( equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin per gram ) Net Wt 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) Sterile Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : 3 . 5 g NDC 17478 - 284 - 35 Gentak ® Brand of Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment USP , 0 . 3 % ( equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin per gram ) Net Wt 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz . )
Sterile Rx only Akorn Logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
