Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 2 . 7 % Ensulizole 4 . 0 % Homosalate 10 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 2 . 79 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing product .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Shake well before use .
• hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin and spray generously and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• rapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients acrylates / C12 - 22 alkyl methacrylate copolymer , acrylates copolymer , aloe barbadensis leaf juice ( stabilized * aloe vera gel ) , butyloctyl salicylate , ceteareth - 25 , diethylhexyl carbonate , disodium ethylene dicocamide PEG - 15 disulfate , disodium EDTA , fragrance ( parfum ) , methylisothiazolinone , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , panthenol , pentylene glycol , phenoxyethanol , polyester - 7 , propanediol , styrene / acrylates copolymer , tocopheryl acetate , triethanolamine , water ( aqua ) Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions : Call 1 - 888 - 440 - 2563 , Monday - Friday , 9 : 00 a . m . to 4 : 00 p . m . PT .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
