Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Each tablet contains 852 mg dibasic sodium phosphate anhydrous , 155 mg monobasic potassium phosphate , and the equivalent of 130 mg monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate .
Each tablet yields approximately 250 mg of phosphorus , 298 mg of sodium ( 13 . 0 mEq ) and 45 mg of potassium ( 1 . 1 mEq ) .
The components of K - PHOS ® NEUTRAL have the following chemical names and molecular formulae : Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Anhydrous Molecular Formula : Na2HPO4 , Molecular Weight : 141 . 96 .
Monobasic Potassium Phosphate Molecular Formula : KH2PO4 , Molecular Weight : 136 . 09 .
Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , Monohydrate Molecular Formula : NaH2PO4 . H2O , Molecular Weight : 137 . 98 .
Inactive Ingredients : Lactose monohydrate , povidone , white coating ( hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , titanium dioxide , maltodextrin , triacetin , glycerol triacetate , polyethylene glycol , sodium citrate , and stearic acid ) , sodium starch glycolate , and magnesium stearate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phosphorus has a number of important functions in the biochemistry of the body .
The bulk of the body ' s phosphorus is located in the bones , where it plays a key role in osteoblastic and osteoclastic activities .
Enzymatically catalyzed phosphate - transfer reactions are numerous and vital in the metabolism of carbohydrate , lipid and protein , and a proper concentration of the anion is of primary importance in assuring an orderly biochemical sequence .
In addition , phosphorus plays an important role in modifying steady - state tissue concentrations of calcium .
Phosphate ions are important buffers of the intracellular fluid , and also play a primary role in the renal excretion of hydrogen ion .
Oral administration of inorganic phosphates increases serum phosphate levels .
Phosphates lower urinary calcium levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria .
In general , in adults , about two thirds of the ingested phosphate is absorbed from the bowel , most of which is rapidly excreted into the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE K - PHOS ® NEUTRAL increases urinary phosphate and pyrophosphate .
As a phosphorus supplement , each tablet supplies 25 % of the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowance ( U . S . RDA ) of phosphorus for adul t s and children over 4 years of age .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with infected phosphate stones , in patients with severely impaired renal function ( less than 30 % of normal ) and in the presence of hyperphosphatemia .
PRECAUTIONS General This product contains potassium and sodium and should be used with caution if regulation of these elements is desired .
Occasionally , some individuals may experience a mild laxative effect during the first few days of phosphate therapy .
If laxation persists to an unpleasant degree , reduce the daily dosage until this effect subsides or , if necessary , discontinue the use of this product .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing this product in the following conditions : Cardiac disease ( particularly in digitalized patients ) ; severe adrenal insufficiency ( Addison ' s disease ) ; acute dehydration ; severe renal insufficiency ; renal function impairment or chronic renal disease ; extensive tissue breakdown ( such as severe burns ) ; myotonia congenita ; cardiac failure ; cirrhosis of the liver or severe hepatic disease ; peripheral or pulmonary edema ; hypernatremia ; hypertension ; toxemia of pregnancy ; hypoparathyroidism ; and acute pancreatitis .
Rickets may benefit from phosphate therapy , but caution should be exercised .
High serum phosphate levels may increase the incidence of extra - skeletal calcification .
Information for Patients Patients with kidney stones may pass old stones when phosphate therapy is started and should be warned of this possibility .
Patients should be advised to avoid the use of antacids containing aluminum , magnesium , or calcium which may prevent the absorption of phosphate .
Laboratory Tests Careful monitoring of renal function and serum calcium , phosphorus , potassium and sodium may be required at periodic intervals during phosphate therapy .
Other tests may be warranted in some patients , depending on conditions .
Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium , aluminum , or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption .
Concurrent use of antihypertensives , especially diazoxide , guanethidine , hydralazine , methyldopa , or rauwolfia alkaloid ; or corticosteroids , especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin , with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia .
Calciumcontaining preparations and / or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia .
Potassium - containing medications or potassium - sparingdiuretics may cause hyperkalemia .
Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term or reproduction studies in animals or humans have been performed with K - PHOS ® NEUTRAL to evaluate its carcinogenic , mutagenic , or impairment of fertility potential .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with K - PHOS ® NEUTRAL .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset ( diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain and vomiting ) may occur with phosphate therapy .
Also , bone and joint pain ( possible phosphate - induced osteomalacia ) could occur .
The following adverse effects may be observed ( primarily from sodium or potassium ) : headaches ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; seizures ; weakness or heaviness of legs ; unusual tiredness or weakness ; muscle cramps ; numbness , tingling , pain , or weakness of hands or feet ; numbness or tingling around lips ; fast or irregular heartbeat ; shortness of breath or troubled breathing ; swelling of feet or lower legs ; unusual weight gain ; low urine output ; unusual thirst .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION K - PHOS ® NEUTRAL tablets should be taken with a full glass of water , with meals and at bedtime .
Adults : One or two tablets four times daily ; Pediatric Patients over 4 years of age : One tablet four times daily .
For Pediatric Patients under 4 years of age , use only as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED White , film coated , capsule - shaped tablet with the name BEACH and the number 1125 imprinted on each tablet .
Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0486 - 1125 - 01 ) and bottles of 500 ( NDC 0486 - 1125 - 05 ) tablets .
STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP ] Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closures .
Manufactured for : BEACH PHARMACEUTICALS , Div .
of Beach Products , Inc . , Tampa , FL 33611 Rev : 06 / 05 B PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0486 - 1125 - 01 K - PHOS ® Neutral PHOSPHORUS SUPPLEMENT Each tablet supplies 250 mg of phosphorus Rx ONLY 100 TABLETS Beach [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
