WARNING : RISK OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS , EXACERBATIONS OF HEPATITIS B UPON DISCONTINUATION OF EPIVIR - HBV ® , AND RISK OF HIV - 1 RESISTANCE IF EPIVIR - HBV IS USED IN PATIENTS WITH UNRECOGNIZED OR UNTREATED HIV - 1 .
Lactic Acidosis and Severe Hepatomegaly : Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues alone or in combination , including EPIVIR - HBV .
Suspend treatment if clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Exacerbations of Hepatitis B Upon Discontinuation of EPIVIR - HBV : Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who have discontinued anti - hepatitis B therapy ( including EPIVIR - HBV ) .
Hepatic function should be monitored closely with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months in patients who discontinue anti - hepatitis B therapy .
If appropriate , initiation of anti ‑ hepatitis B therapy may be warranted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Risk of HIV - 1 Resistance if EPIVIR - HBV Is Used in Patients With Unrecognized or Untreated HIV - 1 Infection : EPIVIR - HBV is not approved for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection because the lamivudine dosage in EPIVIR - HBV is subtherapeutic and monotherapy is inappropriate for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
HIV - 1 resistance may emerge in chronic hepatitis B - infected patients with unrecognized or untreated HIV - 1 infection .
Counseling and testing should be offered to all patients before beginning treatment with EPIVIR ‑ HBV and periodically during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS , EXACERBATIONS OF HEPATITIS B UPON DISCONTINUATION OF EPIVIR - HBV , AND RISK OF HIV - 1 RESISTANCE IF EPIVIR - HBV IS USED IN PATIENTS WITH UNRECOGNIZED OR UNTREATED HIV - 1 See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues .
Suspend treatment if clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who have discontinued anti - hepatitis B therapy ( including EPIVIR - HBV ) .
Monitor hepatic function closely in these patients and , if appropriate , initiate anti - hepatitis B treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • • EPIVIR ‑ HBV tablets and oral solution contain a lower dose of the same active ingredient ( lamivudine ) as EPIVIR tablets and oral Solution used to treat HIV - 1 infection .
HIV - 1 resistance may emerge in chronic hepatitis B patients with unrecognized or untreated HIV - 1 infection because the lamivudine dosage in EPIVIR ‑ HBV is subtherapeutic and monotherapy is inappropriate for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
HIV counseling and testing should be offered to all patients before beginning treatment with EPIVIR ‑ HBV and periodically during treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EPIVIR - HBV is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection associated with evidence of hepatitis B viral replication and active liver inflammation [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
The following points should be considered when initiating therapy with EPIVIR - HBV : • • Due to high rates of resistance development in treated patients , initiation of treatment with EPIVIR - HBV should only be considered when the use of an alternative antiviral agent with a higher genetic barrier to resistance is not available or appropriate .
• • EPIVIR - HBV has not been evaluated in patients co - infected with HIV , hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) , or hepatitis delta virus .
• • EPIVIR - HBV has not been evaluated in liver transplant recipients or in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection with decompensated liver disease .
• • EPIVIR - HBV has not been evaluated in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age with chronic HBV infection .
• • EPIVIR - HBV is a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection associated with evidence of hepatitis B viral replication and active liver inflammation .
( 1 ) • • Adult patients : 100 mg , once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Pediatric patients aged 2 to 17 years : 3 mg per kg once daily up to 100 mg once daily .
Prescribe oral solution for pediatric patients requiring less than 100 mg daily .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Patients with renal impairment : Doses of EPIVIR - HBV must be adjusted in accordance with renal function .
( 2 . 4 ) • • EPIVIR - HBV should not be used with other medications that contain lamivudine or emtricitabine .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 HIV Counseling and Testing HIV counseling and testing should be offered to all patients before beginning treatment with EPIVIR - HBV and periodically during treatment because of the risk of emergence of resistant - HIV - 1 and limitation of treatment options if EPIVIR - HBV is prescribed to treat chronic hepatitis B infection in a patient who has unrecognized HIV - 1 infection or acquires HIV - 1 infection during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended oral dosage of EPIVIR ‑ HBV is 100 mg once daily .
2 . 3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients The recommended oral dosage of EPIVIR ‑ HBV for pediatric patients aged 2 to 17 years is 3 mg per kg once daily up to a maximum daily dosage of 100 mg .
The oral solution formulation should be prescribed for patients requiring a dosage less than 100 mg or if unable to swallow tablets .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients With Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 .
Dosage of EPIVIR - HBV in Adult Patients With Renal ImpairmentCreatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) Recommended Dosage of EPIVIR - HBV ≥ 50 100 mg once daily 30 - 49 100 mg first dose , then 50 mg once daily 15 - 29 100 mg first dose , then 25 mg once daily 5 - 14 35 mg first dose , then 15 mg once daily < 5 35 mg first dose , then 10 mg once daily Following correction of the dosage for renal impairment , no additional dosage modification of EPIVIR - HBV is required after routine ( 4 - hour ) hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There are insufficient data to recommend a specific dosage of EPIVIR - HBV in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
2 . 5 Important Administration Instructions • • EPIVIR - HBV tablets and oral solution may be administered with or without food .
• • The tablets and oral solution may be used interchangeably [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• • The oral solution should be used for doses less than 100 mg .
• • EPIVIR - HBV should not be used with other medications that contain lamivudine or medications that contain emtricitabine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 6 Assessing Patients During Treatment Patients should be monitored regularly during treatment by a physician experienced in the management of chronic hepatitis B . During treatment , combinations of such events such as return of persistently elevated ALT , increasing levels of HBV DNA over time after an initial decline below assay limit , progression of clinical signs or symptoms of hepatic disease , and / or worsening of hepatic necroinflammatory findings may be considered as potentially reflecting loss of therapeutic response .
Such observations should be taken into consideration when determining the advisability of continuing therapy with EPIVIR - HBV .
The optimal duration of treatment , the durability of HBeAg seroconversions occurring during treatment , and the relationship between treatment response and long ‑ term outcomes such as hepatocellular carcinoma or decompensated cirrhosis are not known .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • • EPIVIR - HBV tablets : 100 mg , butterscotch - colored , film - coated , biconvex , capsule - shaped tablets imprinted with “ GX CG5 ” on one side .
• • EPIVIR - HBV oral solution : A clear , colorless to pale yellow , strawberry - banana – flavored liquid , containing 5 mg of lamivudine per 1 mL .
• • Tablets : 100 mg ( 3 ) • • Oral Solution : 5 mg per mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EPIVIR - HBV is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a previous hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to lamivudine or to any component of the tablets or oral solution .
Patients with previously demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to any of the components of the products .
( 4 ) • • EPIVIR - HBV should not be used with other medications that contain lamivudine or with medications that contain emtricitabine .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Emergence of Resistance - Associated HBV Substitutions : Monitor ALT and HBV DNA levels during lamivudine treatment to aid in treatment decisions if emergence of viral mutants or loss of therapeutic response is suspected .
( 2 . 6 , 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis and Severe Hepatomegaly With Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues alone or in combination , including EPIVIR - HBV and other antiretrovirals .
A majority of these cases have been in women .
Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors .
Most of these reports have described patients receiving nucleoside analogues for treatment of HIV infection , but there have been reports of lactic acidosis in patients receiving lamivudine for hepatitis B . Particular caution should be exercised when administering EPIVIR - HBV to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease ; however , cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors .
Treatment with EPIVIR - HBV should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity ( which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations ) .
5 . 2 Exacerbation of Hepatitis After Discontinuation of Treatment Clinical and laboratory evidence of exacerbations of hepatitis have occurred after discontinuation of EPIVIR - HBV ( these have been primarily detected by serum ALT elevations , in addition to the re - emergence of HBV DNA commonly observed after stopping treatment ; see Table 4 for more information regarding frequency of posttreatment ALT elevations ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Although most events appear to have been self - limited , fatalities have been reported in some cases .
The causal relationship of hepatitis exacerbation after discontinuation of EPIVIR - HBV has not been clearly established .
Patients should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months after stopping treatment with EPIVIR - HBV .
There is insufficient evidence to determine whether re - initiation of EPIVIR - HBV alters the course of posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis .
5 . 3 Risk of HIV - 1 Resistance if EPIVIR - HBV Is Used in Patients With Unrecognized or Untreated HIV - 1 Infection EPIVIR - HBV tablets and oral solution contain a lower lamivudine dose than the lamivudine dose in the following drugs used to treat HIV - 1 infection : • • EPIVIR ® tablets and oral solution , • • COMBIVIR ® ( lamivudine / zidovudine ) tablets , • • EPZICOM ® ( abacavir sulfate and lamivudine ) tablets , and • • TRIZIVIR ® ( abacavir , lamivudine , and zidovudine ) tablets The formulation and dosage of lamivudine in EPIVIR - HBV are not approved for patients co - infected with HBV and HIV .
If a decision is made to administer lamivudine to such patients , the higher dosage indicated for HIV therapy should be used as part of an appropriate combination regimen , and the prescribing information for EPIVIR , COMBIVIR , EPZICOM , or TRIZIVIR as well as for EPIVIR - HBV should be consulted .
HIV counseling and testing should be offered to all patients before beginning EPIVIR - HBV and periodically during treatment because of the risk of rapid emergence of resistant HIV and limitation of treatment options if EPIVIR - HBV is prescribed to treat chronic hepatitis B in a patient who has unrecognized or untreated HIV - 1 infection or acquires HIV - 1 infection during treatment .
5 . 4 Coadministration With Other Medications Containing Lamivudine or Emtricitabine Do not coadminister EPIVIR - HBV with other lamivudine - containing products including EPIVIR ( lamivudine ) , COMBIVIR ( lamivudine / zidovudine ) , EPZICOM ( abacavir / lamivudine ) , or TRIZIVIR ( abacavir / lamivudine / zidovudine ) .
Do not coadminister EPIVIR - HBV with emtricitabine - containing products including ATRIPLA ® ( efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) , COMPLERA ® ( rilpivirine / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) , EMTRIVA ® ( emtricitabine ) , STRIBILD ® ( elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) , or TRUVADA ® ( emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) .
5 . 5 Emergence of Resistance - Associated HBV Substitutions In controlled clinical trials , YMDD - mutant HBV was detected in subjects with on - EPIVIR - HBV re - appearance of HBV DNA after an initial decline below the solution - hybridization assay limit [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV ( adults and children ) with YMDD - mutant HBV at 52 weeks showed diminished treatment responses in comparison with subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV without evidence of YMDD substitutions , including the following : lower rates of HBeAg seroconversion and HBeAg loss ( no greater than placebo recipients ) , more frequent return of positive HBV DNA , and more frequent ALT elevations .
In the controlled trials , when subjects developed YMDD - mutant HBV , they had a rise in HBV DNA and ALT from their own previous on - treatment levels .
Progression of hepatitis B , including death , has been reported in some subjects with YMDD - mutant HBV , including subjects from the liver transplant setting and from other clinical trials .
In clinical practice , monitoring of ALT and HBV DNA levels during treatment with EPIVIR - HBV may aid in treatment decisions if emergence of viral mutants is suspected .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Exacerbation of hepatitis B after discontinuation of treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Risk of emergence of resistant HIV - 1 infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Risk of emergence of resistant HBV infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • The most common reported adverse reactions in those receiving EPIVIR - HBV ( incidence greater than or equal to 10 % and reported at a rate greater than placebo ) were ear , nose and throat infections , sore throat , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 at 1 - 877 - 844 - 8872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of Adults With Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection : Clinical adverse reactions ( regardless of investigator ’ s causality assessment ) reported in greater or equal to 10 % of subjects who received EPIVIR - HBV and reported at a rate greater than placebo are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Clinical Adverse Reactionsa Reported in ≥ 10 % of Subjects who Received EPIVIR - HBV for 52 to 68 Weeks and at an Incidence Greater than Placebo ( Trials 1 - 3 ) Adverse Event EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 332 ) Placebo ( n = 200 ) Ear , Nose , and Throat Ear , nose , and throat infections 25 % 21 % Sore throat 13 % 8 % Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 14 % 12 % aIncludes adverse events regardless of severity and causality assessment .
Specified laboratory abnormalities reported in subjects who received EPIVIR - HBV and reported at a rate greater than in subjects who received placebo are listed in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Frequencies of Specified Laboratory Abnormalities Reported During Treatment at a Greater Frequency in Subjects Treated with EPIVIR - HBV Than With Placebo ( Trials 1 ‑ 3 ) aTest ( Abnormal Level ) Subjects With Abnormality / Subjects With Observations EPIVIR - HBV Placebo Serum Lipase ≥ 2 . 5 x ULNb 10 % 7 % CPK ≥ 7 x baseline 9 % 5 % Platelets < 50 , 000 / mm3 4 % 3 % a Includes subjects treated for 52 to 68 weeks .
b Includes observations during and after treatment in the 2 placebo - controlled trials that collected this information .
ULN = Upper limit of normal .
In subjects followed for up to 16 weeks after discontinuation of treatment , posttreatment ALT elevations were observed more frequently in subjects who had received EPIVIR - HBV than in subjects who had received placebo .
A comparison of ALT elevations between Weeks 52 and 68 in subjects who discontinued EPIVIR - HBV at Week 52 and subjects in the same trials who received placebo throughout the treatment course is shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 .
Posttreatment ALT Elevations With No - Active - Treatment Follow - up ( Trails 1 and 3 ) Abnormal Value Subjects With ALT Elevation / Subjects With Observationsa EPIVIR - HBVb Placebob ALT ≥ 2 x baseline value 27 % 19 % ALT ≥ 3 x baseline valuec 21 % 8 % ALT ≥ 2 x baseline value and absolute ALT > 500 IU / L 15 % 7 % ALT ≥ 2 x baseline value ; and bilirubin > 2 x ULN and ≥ 2 x baseline value 0 . 7 % 0 . 9 % aEach subject may be represented in one or more category .
b During treatment phase .
cComparable to a Grade 3 toxicity in accordance with modified WHO criteria .
ULN = Upper limit of normal .
Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of Pediatric Subjects With Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection : Most commonly observed adverse reactions in the pediatric trials were similar to those in adult trials .
Posttreatment transaminase elevations were observed in some subjects followed after cessation of EPIVIR - HBV .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing use of EPIVIR - HBV .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to lamivudine .
Blood and Lympatic System Disorders : Thrombocytopenia .
Digestive : Stomatitis .
Endocrine and Metabolic : Hyperglycemia .
General : Weakness .
Blood and Lymphatic : Anemia ( including pure red cell aplasia and severe anemias progressing on therapy ) , lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly .
Hepatic and Pancreatic : Lactic acidosis and steatosis , posttreatment exacerbation of hepatitis [ see Boxed Warning ] , pancreatitis .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis , urticaria .
Musculoskeletal : Cramps , rhabdomyolysis .
Nervous : Paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy .
Respiratory : Abnormal breath sounds / wheezing .
Skin : Alopecia , pruritus , rash .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lamivudine is predominantly eliminated in the urine by active organic cationic secretion .
The possibility of interactions with other drugs administered concurrently should be considered , particularly when their main route of elimination is active renal secretion via the organic cationic transport system ( e . g . , trimethoprim ) .
No data are available regarding interactions with other drugs that have renal clearance mechanisms similar to that of lamivudine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled trials of EPIVIR - HBV in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , EPIVIR - HBV should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus .
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry : To monitor maternal - fetal outcomes of pregnant women exposed to lamivudine , a Pregnancy Registry has been established .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Animal Data : Animal reproduction studies in rats and rabbits revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at orally administered doses up to 4 , 000 mg / kg / day and 1 , 000 mg / kg / day , respectively , producing plasma levels up to approximately 60 times that for the adult HBV dose .
Evidence of early embryolethality was seen in the rabbit at exposure levels similar to those observed in humans , but there was no indication of this effect in the rat at exposure levels up to 60 times those in humans .
Studies in pregnant rats and rabbits showed that lamivudine is transferred to the fetus through the placenta .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Lamivudine is excreted in human milk .
Samples of breast milk obtained from 20 mothers receiving lamivudine monotherapy ( 300 mg twice daily , 6 times the recommended dosage for hepatitis B infection ) or combination therapy ( 150 mg lamivudine twice daily [ 3 times the recommended dosage for hepatitis B infection ] and 300 mg zidovudine twice daily ) had measurable concentrations of lamivudine .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue EPIVIR - HBV taking into consideration the importance of continued hepatitis B therapy to the mother and the known benefits of breastfeeding .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use EPIVIR - HBV is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in pediatric patients aged 2 to 17 years [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of EPIVIR - HBV in pediatric patients younger than 2 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of EPIVIR - HBV did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In particular , because lamivudine is substantially excreted by the kidney and elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , renal function should be monitored and dosage adjustments should be made accordingly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients With Impaired Renal Function Reduction of the dosage of EPIVIR - HBV is recommended for patients with impaired renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Patients With Impaired Liver Function No dose adjustment for lamivudine is required for patients with impaired hepatic function .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote for EPIVIR - HBV .
If overdose occurs , the patient should be monitored , and standard supportive treatment utilized , as required .
Because a negligible amount of lamivudine was removed via ( 4 - hour ) hemodialysis , continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis , and automated peritoneal dialysis , it is not known if continuous hemodialysis would provide clinical benefit in a lamivudine overdose event .
11 DESCRIPTION EPIVIR - HBV is a synthetic nucleoside analogue with activity against HBV .
The chemical name of lamivudine is ( 2 R , cis ) - 4 - amino - 1 - ( 2 - hydroxymethyl - 1 , 3 - oxathiolan - 5 - yl ) - ( 1 H ) - pyrimidin - 2 - one .
Lamivudine is the ( - ) enantiomer of a dideoxy analogue of cytidine .
Lamivudine has also been referred to as ( - ) 2 ′ , 3 ′ - dideoxy , 3 ′ - thiacytidine .
It has a molecular formula of C8H11N3O3S and a molecular weight of 229 . 3 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lamivudine is a white to off - white crystalline solid with a solubility of approximately 70 mg per mL in water at 20 ° C . EPIVIR - HBV tablets are for oral administration .
Each tablet contains 100 mg of lamivudine and the inactive ingredients hypromellose , macrogol 400 , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , red iron oxide , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
EPIVIR - HBV oral solution is for oral administration .
One milliliter ( 1 mL ) of EPIVIR - HBV oral solution contains 5 mg of lamivudine ( 5 mg per mL ) in an aqueous solution and the inactive ingredients artificial strawberry and banana flavors , citric acid ( anhydrous ) , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , sodium citrate ( dihydrate ) , and sucrose ( 200 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lamivudine is an antiviral agent [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetics in Adults : The pharmacokinetic properties of lamivudine have been studied as single and multiple oral doses ranging from 5 mg to 600 mg per day administered to HBV - infected patients .
Absorption and Bioavailability : Following single oral doses of 100 mg , the peak serum lamivudine concentration ( Cmax ) in HBV - infected patients ( steady state ) and healthy subjects ( single dose ) was 1 . 28 ± 0 . 56 mcg per mL and 1 . 05 ± 0 . 32 mcg per mL ( mean ± SD ) , respectively , which occurred between 0 . 5 and 2 hours after administration .
The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC [ 0 - 24 h ] ) following 100 mg lamivudine oral single and repeated daily doses to steady state was 4 . 3 ± 1 . 4 ( mean ± SD ) and 4 . 7 ± 1 . 7 mcg • hour per mL , respectively .
The relative bioavailability of the tablet and oral solution were demonstrated in healthy subjects .
Although the solution demonstrated a slightly higher peak serum concentration ( Cmax ) , there was no significant difference in systemic exposure ( AUC ) between the oral solution and the tablet .
Therefore , the oral solution and the tablet may be used interchangeably .
After oral administration of lamivudine once daily to HBV - infected adults , the AUC and Cmax increased in proportion to dose over the range from 5 mg to 600 mg once daily .
Absolute bioavailability in 12 adult subjects was 86 % ± 16 % ( mean ± SD ) for the 150 - mg tablet and 87 % ± 13 % for the 10 - mg per mL oral solution .
Effects of Food on Oral Absorption : The 100 - mg tablet was administered orally to 24 healthy subjects on 2 occasions , once in the fasted state and once with food ( standard meal : 967 kcal ; 67 grams fat , 33 grams protein , 58 grams carbohydrate ) .
There was no significant difference in systemic exposure ( AUC ) in the fed and fasted states .
Distribution : The apparent volume of distribution after IV administration of lamivudine to 20 asymptomatic HIV - 1 - infected subjects was 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 L per kg , suggesting that lamivudine distributes into extravascular spaces .
Volume of distribution was independent of dose and did not correlate with body weight .
Binding of lamivudine to human plasma proteins is less than 36 % and independent of dose .
In vitro studies showed that over the concentration range of 0 . 1 to 100 mcg per mL , the amount of lamivudine associated with erythrocytes ranged from 53 % to 57 % and was independent of concentration .
Metabolism : Metabolism of lamivudine is a minor route of elimination .
In humans , the only known metabolite of lamivudine is the trans - sulfoxide metabolite .
In 9 healthy subjects receiving 300 mg of lamivudine as single oral doses , a total of 4 . 2 % ( range 1 . 5 % to 7 . 5 % ) of the dose was excreted as the trans - sulfoxide metabolite in the urine , the majority of which was excreted in the first 12 hours .
Serum concentrations of the trans - sulfoxide metabolite have not been determined .
Elimination : The majority of lamivudine is eliminated unchanged in urine by active organic cationic secretion .
In 9 healthy subjects given a single 300 - mg oral dose of lamivudine , renal clearance was 199 . 7 ± 56 . 9 mL per min ( mean ± SD ) .
In 20 HIV - 1 - infected subjects given a single IV dose , renal clearance was 280 . 4 ± 75 . 2 mL per min ( mean ± SD ) , representing 71 % ± 16 % ( mean ± SD ) of total clearance of lamivudine .
In most single - dose trials in HIV - 1 - infected subjects , HBV - infected subjects , or healthy subjects with serum sampling for 24 hours after dosing , the observed mean elimination half - life ( t ½ ) ranged from 5 to 7 hours .
In HIV - 1 - infected subjects , total clearance was 398 . 5 ± 69 . 1 mL per min ( mean ± SD ) .
Oral clearance and elimination half - life were independent of dose and body weight over an oral dosing range of 0 . 25 to 10 mg per kg .
Special Populations : Adults With Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetic properties of lamivudine have been determined in healthy subjects and in subjects with impaired renal function , with and without hemodialysis ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) Dose - Normalized to a Single 100 - mg Oral Dose of Lamivudine in Subjects With Varying Degrees of Renal FunctionParameter Creatinine Clearance Criterion ( Number of Subjects ) ≥ 80 mL / min ( n = 9 ) 20 - 59 mL / min ( n = 8 ) < 20 mL / min ( n = 6 ) Creatinine clearance ( mL / min ) 97 ( range 82 - 117 ) 39 ( range 25 - 49 ) 15 ( range 13 - 19 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 31 ± 0 . 35 1 . 85 ± 0 . 40 1 . 55 ± 0 . 31 AUC ( mcg • h / mL ) 5 . 28 ± 1 . 01 14 . 67 ± 3 . 74 27 . 33 ± 6 . 56 Cl / F ( mL / min ) 326 . 4 ± 63 . 8 120 . 1 ± 29 . 5 64 . 5 ± 18 . 3 Exposure ( AUC ) , Cmax , and half - life increased with diminishing renal function ( as expressed by creatinine clearance ) .
Apparent total oral clearance ( Cl / F ) of lamivudine decreased as creatinine clearance decreased .
Tmax was not significantly affected by renal function .
Based on these observations , it is recommended that the dosage of lamivudine be modified in patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Hemodialysis increases lamivudine clearance from a mean of 64 to 88 mL per min ; however , the length of time of hemodialysis ( 4 hours ) was insufficient to significantly alter mean lamivudine exposure after a single - dose administration .
Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and automated peritoneal dialysis have negligible effects on lamivudine clearance .
Therefore , it is recommended , following correction of dose for creatinine clearance , that no additional dose modification be made after routine hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
It is not known whether lamivudine can be removed by continuous ( 24 - hour ) hemodialysis .
Pediatric Patients With Renal Impairment : The effect of renal impairment on lamivudine pharmacokinetics in pediatric patients with chronic hepatitis B is not known .
Adults With Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetic properties of lamivudine in adults with hepatic impairment are shown in Table 6 .
Subjects were stratified by severity of hepatic impairment .
Table 6 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) Dose - Normalized to a Single 100 - mg Dose of Lamivudine in Subjects With Normal or Impaired Hepatic FunctionParameter Normal ( n = 8 ) Impairmenta Moderate ( n = 8 ) Severe ( n = 8 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 0 . 92 ± 0 . 31 1 . 06 ± 0 . 58 1 . 08 ± 0 . 27 AUC ( mcg • h / mL ) 3 . 96 ± 0 . 58 3 . 97 ± 1 . 36 4 . 30 ± 0 . 63 Tmax ( h ) 1 . 3 ± 0 . 8 1 . 4 ± 0 . 8 1 . 4 ± 1 . 2 Cl / F ( mL / min ) 424 . 7 ± 61 . 9 456 . 9 ± 129 . 8 395 . 2 ± 51 . 8 Clr ( mL / min ) 279 . 2 ± 79 . 2 323 . 5 ± 100 . 9 216 . 1 ± 58 . 0 aHepatic impairment assessed by aminopyrine breath test .
Pharmacokinetic parameters were not altered by diminishing hepatic impairment .
Therefore , no dose adjustment for lamivudine is required for patients with impaired hepatic function .
Safety and efficacy of EPIVIR - HBV have not been established in the presence of decompensated liver disease [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Adults Post - Hepatic Transplant : Fourteen HBV - infected subjects received liver transplant following lamivudine therapy and completed pharmacokinetic assessments at enrollment , 2 weeks after 100 - mg once - daily dosing ( pre - transplant ) , and 3 months following transplant ; there were no significant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters .
The overall exposure of lamivudine is primarily affected by renal impairment ; consequently , transplant patients with renal impairment had generally higher exposure than patients with normal renal function .
Safety and efficacy of EPIVIR - HBV have not been established in this population [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Pediatric Subjects : Lamivudine pharmacokinetics were evaluated in a 28 - day dose - ranging trial in 53 pediatric subjects with chronic hepatitis B . Subjects aged 2 to 12 years were randomized to receive lamivudine 0 . 35 mg per kg twice daily , 3 mg per kg once daily , 1 . 5 mg per kg twice daily , or 4 mg per kg twice daily .
Subjects aged 13 to 17 years received lamivudine 100 mg once daily .
Lamivudine Tmax was 0 . 5 to 1 hour .
In general , both Cmax and exposure ( AUC ) showed dose proportionality in the dosing range studied .
Weight - corrected oral clearance was highest at age 2 and declined from 2 to 12 years , where values were then similar to those seen in adults .
A dose of 3 mg per kg given once daily produced a steady - state lamivudine AUC ( mean 5 , 953 ng • hour per mL ± 1 , 562 SD ) similar to that associated with a dose of 100 mg per day in adults .
Gender : There are no significant gender differences in lamivudine pharmacokinetics .
Race : There are no significant racial differences in lamivudine pharmacokinetics .
Drug Interactions : Interferon Alfa : Multiple doses of lamivudine and a single dose of interferon were coadministered to 19 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetics study .
Results indicated a 10 % reduction in lamivudine AUC , but no change in interferon pharmacokinetic parameters when the 2 drugs were given in combination .
All other pharmacokinetic parameters ( Cmax , Tmax , and t ½ ) were unchanged .
There was no significant pharmacokinetic interaction between lamivudine and interferon alfa in this trial .
Ribavirin : In vitro data indicate ribavirin reduces phosphorylation of lamivudine , stavudine , and zidovudine .
However , no pharmacokinetic ( e . g . , plasma concentrations or intracellular triphosphorylated active metabolite concentrations ) or pharmacodynamic ( e . g . , loss of HIV - 1 / HCV virologic suppression ) interaction was observed when ribavirin and lamivudine ( n = 18 ) , stavudine ( n = 10 ) , or zidovudine ( n = 6 ) were coadministered as part of a multi - drug regimen to HIV ‑ 1 / HCV co - infected subjects .
Trimethoprim / Sulfamethoxazole : Lamivudine and trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) were coadministered to 14 HIV - positive subjects in a single - center , open - label , randomized , crossover trial .
Each subject received treatment with a single 300 - mg dose of lamivudine and TMP 160 mg / SMX 800 mg once a day for 5 days with concomitant administration of lamivudine 300 mg with the fifth dose in a crossover design .
Coadministration of TMP / SMX with lamivudine resulted in an increase of 44 % ± 23 % ( mean ± SD ) in lamivudine AUC , a decrease of 29 % ± 13 % in lamivudine oral clearance , and a decrease of 30 % ± 36 % in lamivudine renal clearance .
The pharmacokinetic properties of TMP and SMX were not altered by coadministration with lamivudine .
Zidovudine : Lamivudine and zidovudine were coadministered to 12 asymptomatic HIV - positive adult subjects in a single - center , open - label , randomized , crossover trial .
No significant differences were observed in AUC or total clearance for lamivudine or zidovudine when the 2 drugs were administered together .
Coadministration of lamivudine with zidovudine resulted in an increase of 39 % ± 62 % ( mean ± SD ) in Cmax of zidovudine .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action : Lamivudine is a synthetic nucleoside analogue .
Intracellularly , lamivudine is phosphorylated to its active 5 ′ - triphosphate metabolite , lamivudine triphosphate , 3 TC - TP .
The principal mode of action of 3 TC - TP is the inhibition of the RNA - and DNA - dependent polymerase activities of HBV reverse transcriptase ( rt ) via DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analogue into viral DNA .
3 TC - TP is a weak inhibitor of mammalian α , β , and γ - DNA polymerases .
Antiviral Activity : Activity of lamivudine against HBV in cell culture was assessed in HBV DNA - transfected 2 . 2 . 15 cells , HB611 cells , and infected human primary hepatocytes .
EC50 values ( the concentration of drug needed to reduce the level of extracellular HBV DNA by 50 % ) varied from 0 . 01 μM ( 2 . 3 ng per mL ) to 5 . 6 μM ( 1 . 3 mcg per mL ) depending upon the duration of exposure of cells to lamivudine , the cell model system , and the protocol used .
See the EPIVIR prescribing information for information regarding activity of lamivudine against HIV Resistance : Lamivudine - resistant isolates were identified in subjects with virologic breakthrough , defined when using solution hybridization assay as the detection of HBV DNA in serum on 2 or more occasions after failing to detect HBV DNA on 2 or more occasions and defined when using PCR assay as a greater than 1 log10 ( 10 - fold ) increase in serum HBV DNA from nadir during treatment in a subject who had an initial virologic response .
Lamivudine - resistant HBV isolates develop rtM204V / I substitutions in the YMDD motif of the catalytic domain of the viral reverse transcriptase .
rtM204V / I substitutions are frequently accompanied by other substitutions ( rtV173L , rtL180M ) which enhance the level of lamivudine resistance or act as compensatory substitutions improving replication efficiency .
Other substitutions detected in lamivudine - resistant HBV isolates include rtL80I and rtA181T .
In 4 controlled clinical trials in adults with HBeAg - positive chronic hepatitis B virus infection ( CHB ) , YMDD - mutant HBV was detected in 81 of 335 subjects receiving EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg once daily for 52 weeks .
The prevalence of YMDD substitutions was less than 10 % in each of these trials for subjects studied at 24 weeks and increased to an average of 24 % ( range in 4 trials : 16 % to 32 % ) at 52 weeks .
In limited data from a long - term follow - up trial in subjects who continued 100 mg per day EPIVIR - HBV after one of these trials , YMDD substitutions further increased from 18 % ( 10 of 57 ) at 1 year to 41 % ( 20 of 49 ) , 53 % ( 27 of 51 ) , and 69 % ( 31 of 45 ) after 2 , 3 , and 4 years of treatment , respectively .
Over the 5 - year treatment period , the proportion of subjects who developed YMDD - mutant HBV at any time was 69 % ( 40 of 58 ) .
In a controlled trial , treatment - naive subjects with HBeAg - positive CHB were treated with EPIVIR - HBV or EPIVIR - HBV plus adefovir dipivoxil combination therapy .
Following 104 weeks of therapy , YMDD - mutant HBV was detected in 7 of 40 ( 18 % ) subjects receiving combination therapy compared with 15 of 35 ( 43 % ) subjects receiving therapy with only EPIVIR - HBV .
In another controlled trial , combination therapy was evaluated in adult subjects with HBeAg - positive CHB who had YMDD - mutant HBV and diminished clinical and virologic response to EPIVIR - HBV .
Following 52 weeks of EPIVIR - HBV plus adefovir dipivoxil combination therapy ( n = 46 ) or therapy with only EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 49 ) , YMDD ‑ mutant HBV was detected less frequently in subjects receiving combination therapy , 62 % versus 96 .
A published trial suggested that the rates of lamivudine resistance in subjects treated for HBeAg - negative CHB appear to be more variable ( 0 % to 27 % at 1 year and 10 % to 56 % at 2 years ) .
Pediatric Subjects : In a controlled trial in pediatric subjects , YMDD - mutant HBV was detected in 31 of 166 ( 19 % ) subjects receiving EPIVIR - HBV for 52 weeks .
For a subgroup that remained on therapy with EPIVIR - HBV in a follow - up trial , YMDD substitutions increased from 24 % ( 29 of 121 ) at 12 months to 59 % ( 68 of 115 ) at 24 months and 64 % ( 66 of 103 ) at 36 months of treatment with EPIVIR - HBV .
Cross - Resistance : HBV containing lamivudine resistance - associated substitutions ( rtL180M , rtM204I , rtM204V , rtL180M and rtM204V , rtV173L and rtL180M and rtM204V ) retain susceptibility to adefovir dipivoxil but have reduced susceptibility to entecavir ( 30 fold ) and telbivudine ( greater than 100 fold ) .
The lamivudine resistance - associated substitution rtA181T results in diminished response to adefovir and telbivudine .
Similarly , HBV with entecavir resistance - associated substitutions ( I169T / M250V and T184G / S202I ) have greater than 1 , 000 - fold reductions in susceptibility to lamivudine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Long - term carcinogenicity studies with lamivudine in mice and rats showed no evidence of carcinogenic potential at exposures up to 34 times ( mice ) and 200 times ( rats ) those observed in humans at the recommended therapeutic dose for chronic hepatitis B . Mutagenesis : Lamivudine was not active in a microbial mutagenicity screen or an in vitro cell transformation assay , but showed weak in vitro mutagenic activity in a cytogenetic assay using cultured human lymphocytes and in the mouse lymphoma assay .
However , lamivudine showed no evidence of in vivo genotoxic activity in the rat at oral doses of up to 2 , 000 mg per kg producing plasma levels of 60 to 70 times those in humans at the recommended dose for chronic hepatitis B . Impairment of Fertility : In a study of reproductive performance , lamivudine administered to rats at doses up to 4 , 000 mg per kg per day , producing plasma levels 80 to 120 times those in humans , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility and no effect on the survival , growth , and development to weaning of the offspring .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Studies of EPIVIR - HBV in Adult Patients The safety and efficacy of EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg once daily versus placebo were evaluated in 3 controlled trials in subjects with compensated chronic hepatitis B virus infection .
All subjects were aged 16 years or older and had chronic hepatitis B virus infection ( serum HBsAg - positive for at least 6 months ) accompanied by evidence of HBV replication ( serum HBeAg - positive and positive for serum HBV DNA ) and persistently elevated ALT levels and / or chronic inflammation on liver biopsy compatible with a diagnosis of chronic viral hepatitis .
The results of these trials are summarized below .
• • Trial 1 was a randomized , double - blind trial of EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg once daily versus placebo for 52 weeks followed by a 16 - week no - treatment period in 141 treatment - naive US subjects .
• • Trial 2 was a randomized , double - blind , 3 - arm trial that compared EPIVIR - HBV 25 mg once daily versus EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg once daily versus placebo for 52 weeks in 358 Asian subjects .
• • Trial 3 was a randomized , partially - blind trial conducted primarily in North America and Europe in 238 subjects who had ongoing evidence of active chronic hepatitis B despite previous treatment with interferon alfa .
The trial compared EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg once daily for 52 weeks , followed by either EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg or matching placebo once daily for 16 weeks ( Arm 1 ) , versus placebo once daily for 68 weeks ( Arm 2 ) .
Principal endpoint comparisons for the histologic and serologic outcomes in subjects receiving EPIVIR - HBV ( 100 mg daily ) or placebo in these trials are shown in the following tables .
Table 7 .
Histologic Response at Week 52 Among Adult Subjects Receiving EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg Once Daily or PlaceboAssessment Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 62 ) Placebo ( n = 63 ) EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 131 ) Placebo ( n = 68 ) EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 110 ) Placebo ( n = 54 ) Improvementa 55 % 25 % 56 % 26 % 56 % 26 % No Improvement 27 % 59 % 36 % 62 % 25 % 54 % Missing Data 18 % 16 % 8 % 12 % 19 % 20 % aImprovement was defined as a greater than or equal to 2 - point decrease in the Knodell Histologic Activity Index ( HAI ) at Week 52 compared with pretreatment HAI .
Subjects with missing data at baseline were excluded .
Table 8 .
HBeAg Seroconvertersa at Week 52 Among Adult Subjects Receiving EPIVIR - HBV 100 mg Once Daily or PlaceboSeroconversion Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 63 ) Placebo ( n = 69 ) EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 140 ) Placebo ( n = 70 ) EPIVIR - HBV ( n = 108 ) Placebo ( n = 53 ) Seroconverters 17 % 6 % 16 % 4 % 15 % 13 % a Three - component seroconversion was defined as Week 52 values showing loss of HBeAg , gain of HBeAb , and reduction of HBV DNA to below the solution - hybridization assay limit .
Subjects with negative baseline HBeAg or HBV DNA assay were excluded from the analysis .
Normalization of serum ALT levels was more frequent with EPIVIR - HBV treatment compared with placebo in Trials 1 - 3 .
The majority of subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV showed a decrease of HBV DNA to below the assay limit early in the course of therapy .
However , reappearance of assay - detectable HBV DNA during treatment with EPIVIR - HBV was observed in approximately one - third of subjects after this initial response .
14 . 2 Clinical Studies of EPIVIR - HBV in Pediatric Subjects The safety and efficacy of EPIVIR - HBV were evaluated in a double - blind clinical trial in 286 subjects aged from 2 to 17 years , who were randomized ( 2 : 1 ) to receive 52 weeks of EPIVIR - HBV ( 3 mg per kg once daily to a maximum of 100 mg once daily ) or placebo .
All subjects had compensated chronic hepatitis B accompanied by evidence of hepatitis B virus replication ( positive serum HBeAg and positive for serum HBV DNA by a research branched - chain DNA assay ) and persistently elevated serum ALT levels .
The combination of loss of HBeAg and reduction of HBV DNA to below the assay limit of the research assay , evaluated at Week 52 , was observed in 23 % of subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV and 13 % of placebo - treated subjects .
Normalization of serum ALT was achieved and maintained to Week 52 more frequently in subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV compared with placebo ( 55 % versus 13 % ) .
As in the adult controlled trials , most subjects treated with EPIVIR - HBV had decreases in HBV DNA below the assay limit early in treatment , but about one third of subjects with this initial response had reappearance of assay - detectable HBV DNA during treatment .
Adolescents ( aged 13 to 17 years ) showed less evidence of treatment effect than younger pediatric subjects .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING EPIVIR - HBV tablets , 100 mg , are butterscotch - colored , film - coated , biconvex , capsule - shaped tablets imprinted with “ GX CG5 ” on one side .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0893 - 1 100 MG 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack butterscotch - colored 0173 - 0662 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advice for the Patient • • Advise patients to remain under the care of a physician while taking EPIVIR - HBV and discuss any new symptoms or concurrent medications with their physician .
• • Advise patients that EPIVIR - HBV is not a cure for hepatitis B , that the long - term treatment benefits of EPIVIR - HBV are unknown at this time , and , in particular , that the relationship of initial treatment response to outcomes such as hepatocellular carcinoma and decompensated cirrhosis is unknown [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
• • Inform patients that deterioration of liver disease has occurred in some cases when treatment was discontinued .
Instruct patients to discuss any changes in regimen with their physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Inform patients that emergence of resistant hepatitis B virus and worsening of disease can occur during treatment , and they should promptly report any new symptoms to their physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • Counsel patients on the importance of testing for HIV to avoid inappropriate therapy and development of resistant HIV .
HIV counseling and testing should be offered before starting EPIVIR - HBV and periodically during therapy .
• • Advise patients that EPIVIR - HBV tablets and EPIVIR - HBV oral solution contain a lower dose of the same active ingredient ( lamivudine ) as EPIVIR tablets , EPIVIR oral solution , COMBIVIR tablets , EPZICOM tablets , and TRIZIVIR tablets .
EPIVIR - HBV should not be taken concurrently with EPIVIR , COMBIVIR , EPZICOM , or TRIZIVIR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Advise patients not to take EPIVIR - HBV with emtricitabine - containing medicines , such as ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , STRIBILD , or TRUVADA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Advise patients that treatment with EPIVIR - HBV has not been shown to reduce the risk of transmission of HBV to others through sexual contact or blood contamination [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• ∘ Do not share needles or other injection equipment .
• ∘ Do not share personal items that can have blood or body fluids on them , like toothbrushes and razor blades .
• ∘ Do not have any kind of sex without protection .
Always practice safe sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to lower the chance of sexual contact with semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
• • Advise diabetic patients that each 20 - mL dose of EPIVIR - HBV oral solution contains 4 grams of sucrose [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
EPIVIR - HBV is a registered trademark of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
EPIVIR , COMBIVIR , EPZICOM , and TRIZIVIR are registered trademarks of the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies or its products .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Manufactured under agreement from Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Basingstoke , UK © 2013 , GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
All rights reserved .
Patient Information EPIVIR HBV ® ( EP - i - veer h - b - v ) ( lamivudine ) tablets EPIVIR HBV ® ( EP - i - veer h - b - v ) ( lamivudine ) oral solution Read this Patient Information before you start taking EPIVIR - HBV and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about EPIVIR - HBV ?
EPIVIR - HBV can cause serious side effects , including : Build - up of an acid in your blood ( lactic acidosis ) .
Lactic acidosis can happen in some people who take EPIVIR - HBV or similar ( nucleoside analogs ) medicines .
Lactic acidosis is a serious medical emergency that can lead to death .
Lactic acidosis can be hard to identify early because the symptoms could seem like symptoms of other health problems .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms that could be signs of lactic acidosis : • • feel very weak or tired • • unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • • trouble breathing • • stomach pain with nausea and vomiting • • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • • feel dizzy or light - headed • • have a fast or irregular heartbeat Severe liver problems . Severe liver problems can happen in people who take EPIVIR - HBV or similar medicines .
In some cases these liver problems can lead to death .
Your liver may become large ( hepatomegaly ) and you may develop fat in your liver ( steatosis ) when you take EPIVIR - HBV .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs of liver problems : • • your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow ( jaundice ) • • dark “ tea - colored ” urine • • light - colored bowel movements ( stools ) • • loss of appetite for several days or longer • • nausea • • stomach pain You may be more likely to get lactic acidosis or severe liver problems if you are female , very overweight , or have been taking nucleoside analogue medicines for a long time .
Worsening liver disease . Your hepatitis B infection may become worse after stopping treatment with EPIVIR - HBV .
Worsening liver disease can be serious and may lead to death .
If you stop treatment with EPIVIR - HBV , your healthcare provider will need to check your health and do blood tests to check your liver for at least several months after you stop taking EPIVIR - HBV .
Risk of HIV - 1 resistance in people with unknown HIV - 1 infection or in people with untreated HIV - 1 infection . If you have or get HIV that is not being treated with medicines while taking EPIVIR - HBV , the HIV virus may develop resistance to certain HIV medicines and become harder to treat .
• • Your healthcare provider should offer you counseling and testing for HIV - 1 infection before you start treatment for hepatitis B with EPIVIR - HBV and during treatment .
• • EPIVIR - HBV tablets and EPIVIR ‑ HBV oral solution contain a lower dose of lamivudine than other medicines that contain lamivudine and are used to treat HIV - 1 infection .
See “ What should I tell my healthcare provider ? ”
for a list of medicines you should not take with EPIVIR - HBV .
Resistant Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) .
The hepatitis B virus can change ( mutate ) during your treatment with EPIVIR - HBV and become harder to treat ( resistant ) .
If this happens , your liver disease can become worse and may lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any new symptoms .
What is EPIVIR - HBV ?
EPIVIR - HBV is a prescription medicine used to treat long - term ( chronic ) hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) when the disease is progressing and there is liver swelling ( inflammation ) .
• • EPIVIR - HBV will not cure HBV .
• • EPIVIR - HBV may lower the amount of HBV in your body .
• • EPIVIR - HBV may lower the ability of HBV to multiply and infect new liver cells .
• • EPIVIR - HBV may improve the condition of your liver .
• • The long - term benefits of taking EPIVIR - HBV for treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection are not known .
It is not known if EPIVIR - HBV is safe and effective in : • • people with chronic HBV who have a severely damaged liver that is unable to work properly ( decompensated liver disease ) • • people with hepatitis C virus or hepatitis D ( delta ) virus • • people who have had a liver transplant • • children with chronic HBV less than 2 years of age EPIVIR - HBV does not stop you from spreading HBV to others by sex , sharing needles , or being exposed to your blood .
Avoid doing things that can spread HBV infection to others .
• • Do not share or re - use needles or other injection equipment .
• • Do not share personal items that can have blood or body fluids on them , like toothbrushes and razor blades .
• • Do not have any kind of sex without protection .
Always practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to lower the chance of sexual contact with semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
A vaccine is available to protect people at risk for becoming infected with HBV .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about this vaccine .
Who should not take EPIVIR - HBV ?
Do not take EPIVIR - HBV if you are allergic to lamivudine or any of the ingredients in EPIVIR - HBV .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in EPIVIR - HBV .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking EPIVIR - HBV ?
Before you take EPIVIR - HBV , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • have HIV - 1 infection .
• • have kidney problems • • have diabetes .
Each 20 - mL dose ( 100 mg ) of EPIVIR - HBV oral solution contains 4 grams of sucrose .
• • have any other medical condition • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EPIVIR - HBV will harm your unborn baby .
• Pregnancy Registry .
There is a pregnancy registry for women who take antiviral medicines during pregnancy .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how you can take part in this registry .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
EPIVIR - HBV can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take EPIVIR - HBV or breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Do not take EPIVIR - HBV if you also take : • • other medicines that contain lamivudine ( COMBIVIR ® , EPIVIR ® , EPZICOM ® , TRIZIVIR ® ) • • medicines that contain emtricitabine ( ATRIPLA ® , COMPLERA ® , EMTRIVA ® , STRIBILD ® , TRUVADA ® ) How should I take EPIVIR - HBV ?
• • Take EPIVIR - HBV exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• • Do not change your dose or stop taking EPIVIR - HBV without talking with your healthcare provider .
• • EPIVIR - HBV is taken 1 time each day .
• • Your healthcare provider may prescribe a lower dose if you have problems with your kidneys .
• • For children 2 to 17 years of age , your healthcare provider will prescribe the right dose of EPIVIR - HBV based on your child ’ s body weight .
• • Take EPIVIR - HBV by mouth , with or without food .
• • Tell your healthcare provider if you have trouble swallowing tablets .
EPIVIR - HBV also comes as a liquid ( oral solution ) .
• • If you take too much EPIVIR - HBV , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• • It is important to stay under your healthcare provider ’ s care while taking EPIVIR - HBV .
Tell your healthcare provider about any new symptoms that you have .
What are the possible side effects of EPIVIR - HBV ?
EPIVIR - HBV may cause serious side effects , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about EPIVIR - HBV ? "
.
The most common side effects of EPIVIR - HBV include : • • ear , nose , and throat infections • • sore throat • • diarrhea Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of EPIVIR - HBV .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EPIVIR - HBV ?
• • Store EPIVIR ‑ HBV tablets and oral solution at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep bottles of EPIVIR - HBV oral solution tightly closed .
Keep EPIVIR - HBV and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of EPIVIR - HBV Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EPIVIR - HBV for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EPIVIR - HBV to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about EPIVIR - HBV that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . gsk . com or call 1 - 800 - 25 - 5249 .
What are the ingredients in EPIVIR - HBV ?
Active ingredient : lamivudine .
Inactive ingredients : EPIVIR - HBVtablets : hypromellose , macrogol 400 , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , red iron oxide , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
EPIVIR - HBV oral solution : artificial strawberry and banana flavors , citric acid ( anhydrous ) , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , sodium citrate ( dihydrate ) , and sucrose ( 200 mg per mL ) .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
EPIVIR - HBV is a registered trademark of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
EPIVIR , COMBIVIR , EPZICOM , and TRIZIVIR are registered trademarks of the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies or its products .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Manufactured under agreement from Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Basingstoke , UK © 2013 , GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
All rights reserved .
This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 USA PACKAGE LABEL Label Image for 53808 - 0893 100 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
