DESCRIPTION ETHAMOLIN ® ( Ethanolamine Oleate ) Injection is a mild sclerosing agent .
Chemically it is C17H33COOH • NH2CH2CH2OH .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C20H41NO3 , representing a molecular weight of 343 . 55 .
ETHAMOLIN Injection consists of ethanolamine , a basic substance , which when combined with oleic acid , forms a clear pale - yellow to straw - colored , deliquescent oleate .
The pH ranges from 8 . 0 to 9 . 0 .
ETHAMOLIN Injection is a sterile , apyrogenic , aqueous solution containing in each mL approximately 50 mg of ethanolamine oleate with benzyl alcohol 2 % by volume as preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When injected intravenously , ETHAMOLIN Injection acts primarily by irritation of the intimal endothelium of the vein and produces a sterile dose - related inflammatory response .
This results in fibrosis and possible occlusion of the vein .
ETHAMOLIN Injection also rapidly diffuses through the venous wall and produces a dose - related extravascular inflammatory reaction .
The oleic acid component of ETHAMOLIN Injection is responsible for the inflammatory response , and may also activate coagulation in vivo by release of tissue factor and activation of Hageman factor .
The ethanolamine component , however , may inhibit fibrin clot formation by chelating calcium , so that a procoagulant action of ETHAMOLIN has not been demonstrated .
After injection , ETHAMOLIN disappears from the injection site within five minutes via the portal vein .
When volumes larger than 20 mL are injected , some ETHAMOLIN also flows into the azygos vein through the periesophageal vein .
In human autopsy studies it was found that within four days after injection there is neutrophil infiltration of the esophageal wall and hemorrhage within six days .
Granulation tissue is first seen at ten days , red thrombi obliterating the varices by twenty days , and sclerosis of the varices by two and a half months .
The time course of these findings suggests that sclerosis of esophageal varices will be a delayed rather than an immediate effect of the drug .
The minimum lethal dose of ETHAMOLIN Injection administered intravenously to rabbits is 130 mg / kg .
In dogs , ETHAMOLIN injected into the right atrium at a dose of 1 mL / kg over one minute has been shown to increase extravascular lung water .
The maximum recommended human dose is 20 mL , or 0 . 4 mL / kg for a 50 - kg person .
The concentration of ETHAMOLIN reaching the lung in human treatment will be less than in the dog studies , but pleural effusions , pulmonary edema , pulmonary infiltration and pneumonitis have been reported in clinical trials , and minimizing the total per - session dose , especially in patients with concomitant cardiopulmonary disease , is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ETHAMOLIN Injection is indicated for the treatment of patients with esophageal varices that have recently bled , to prevent rebleeding .
ETHAMOLIN is not indicated for the treatment of patients with esophageal varices that have not bled .
There is no evidence that treatment of this population decreases the likelihood of bleeding .
Sclerotherapy with ETHAMOLIN has no beneficial effect upon portal hypertension , the cause of esophageal varices , so that recanalization and collateralization may occur , necessitating reinjection .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ETHAMOLIN Injection should not be administered to subjects with a known hypersensitivity to ethanolamine , oleic acid , or ethanolamine oleate .
WARNINGS ETHAMOLlN Injection should be used in pregnant women only when clearly needed ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The practice of injecting varicosities of the leg with ETHAMOLlN Injection is not supported by adequately - controlled clinical trials .
Therefore , such use is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONS Fatal anaphylactic shock was reported following injection of a larger than normal volume of ETHAMOLlN Injection into a male who had a known allergic disposition .
Although there are only three known reports of anaphylaxis , the possibility of an anaphylactic reaction should be kept in mind , and the physician should be prepared to treat it appropriately .
In extreme emergencies , 0 . 25 mL of a 1 : 1 , 000 intravenous solution of epinephrine ( 0 . 25 mg ) should be used , and allergic reactions should be controlled with antihistamines .
Acute renal failure with spontaneous recovery followed injection of 15 to 20 mL of ETHAMOLIN Injection into two women .
The physician should bear in mind that severe injection necrosis may result from direct injection of sclerosing agents , especially if excessive volumes are used .
At least one fatal case of extensive esophageal necrosis and death has been reported .
The drug should be administered by physicians who are familiar with an acceptable injection technique .
Patients in Child Class C are more likely to develop esophageal ulceration than those in Classes Aand B . Complications of ulceration , necrosis , and delayed esophageal perforation appear to occur more frequently when ETHAMOLIN Injection is injected submucosally .
This route is not recommended .
In patients with concomitant cardiorespiratory disease , careful monitoring and minimization of the total dose per session is recommended .
Fatal aspiration pneumonia has occurred in elderly patients undergoing esophageal variceal sclerotherapy with ETHAMOLIN Injection .
This adverse event appears to be procedure - related , rather than drug - related ; but , as aspiration of blood and / or stomach contents is not uncommon in patients with bleeding esophageal varices , special precautions should be taken to prevent its occurrence , especially in elderly and critically - ill subjects .
Pregnancy : ( Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C ) Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with ETHAMOLlN Injection .
It is also not known whether ETHAMOLIN Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
ETHAMOLIN Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ETHAMOLlN Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established ADVERSE REACTIONS The reported frequency of complications / adverse events per injection session was 13 % .
The most common complications were pleural effusion / infiltration ( 2 . 1 % ) , esophageal ulcer ( 2 . 1 % ) , pyrexia ( 1 . 8 % ) , retrosterual pain ( 1 . 6 % ) , esophageal stricture .
( 1 . 3 % ) , and pneumonia ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Other adverse local esophageal reactions have also been reported at rates of 0 . 1 to 0 . 4 % , including esophagitis , tearing of the esophagus , sloughing of the mucosa overlying the injected varix , ulceration , stricture , necrosis , periesophageal abscess and perforation ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
These complications appear to be dependent upon the dose and the patient ' s clinical state .
Bacteremia has been observed in patients following injection of esophageal varices with ETHAMOLlN .
Pyrexia and retrosternal pain are not infrequently observed during the post - injection period .
Fatal aspiration pneumonia has occurred in patients with esophageal varices who underwent ETHAMOLIN Injection Sclerotherapy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Anaphylactic shock and acute renal failure with spontaneous recovery have occurred ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
A case of disseminated intravascular coagulation has been reported .
Spinal cord paralysis due to occlusion of the anterior spinal artery has been reported in one child eight hours after ETHAMOLIN sclerotherapy .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE There is no potential for drug abuse or drug dependence .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of ETHAMOLIN Injection can result in severe intramural necrosis of the esophagus .
Complications resulting from such overdosage have resulted in death .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Local ETHAMOLIN Injection sclerotherapy of esophageal varices should be performed by physicians who are famillar with an acceptable technique .
The usual intravenous dose is 1 . 5 to 5 . 0 mL per varix .
The maximum dose per treatment session should not exceed 20 mL .
Patients with significant liver dysfunction ( Child Class C ) or concomitant cardiopulmonary disease should usually receive less than the recommended maximum dose .
Submucosal injections are not recommended , as they reportedly are more likely to result in ulceration at the site of injection .
To obliterate the varix , injections may be made at the time of theacute bleeding episode and then after one week , six weeks , three months , and six months , as indicated .
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC SIZE 67871 - 4790 - 6 2 mL ampule ETHAMOLIN ® ( Ethanolamine Oleate ) Injection , 5 % is available in 2 mL , sterile , single - use glass ampules supplied as boxes of 10 ampules .
Storage Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Distributed by : QOL Medical , LLC Vero Beach , FL 32963 www . ethamolin . net phone 1 - 866 - 528 - 4750 fax 1 - 866 - 528 - 4749 213250 / Rev . 08 / 12 Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
