[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Purpose Polyethylene Glycol 400 0 . 4 % Lubricant Propylene Glycol 0 . 3 % Lubricant Uses • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • for use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye Warnings For external use only Do not use • if this product changes color or becomes cloudy • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following : • you feel eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before using • put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients aminomethylpropanol , boric acid , edetate disodium , hydroxypropyl guar , POLYQUAD ® ( polyquaternium - 1 ) 0 . 001 % preservative , potassium chloride , sodium chloride , sorbitol and purified water .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Questions ?
In the U . S . call 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 alcon . medinfo @ alcon . com www . systane . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Systane ® LUBRICANT EYE GEL GEL DROPS SOOTHING DRY EYE RELIEF Long - lasting formula Day or night protection # 1 DOCTOR RECOMMENDED BRAND1 LIQUID GEL STERILE 10 mL ( 1 / 3 FL OZ ) Alcon SIDE PANEL TAMPER EVIDENT : For your protection , this bottle has an imprinted seal around the neck .
Do not use if seal is damaged or missing at time of purchase .
www . alconpatents . com Made in USA from domestic and imported materials Indulge your eyes in this easy - to - use droppable gel .
Systane ® GEL DROPS forms a protective shield over your eyes to provide enduring relief day or night .
1 Based on a survey of eye care professionals .
Data on file .
300048642 - 0621 Alcon Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
