1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and children 12 years of age and older .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is not indicated for use in the reversal of bronchospasm in acute asthma attacks .
Therapy with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets can be continued during acute exacerbations of asthma .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is a leukotriene synthesis inhibitor indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and children 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) Do not use Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets to treat an acute asthma attack .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets for the treatment of patients with asthma is two 600 mg extended - release tablets twice daily , within one hour after morning and evening meals , for a total daily dose of 2400 mg .
Tablets should not be chewed , cut or crushed .
If a dose is missed , the patient should take the next dose at the scheduled time and not double the dose .
Assess hepatic function enzymes prior to initiation of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and periodically during treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Adults and children 12 years of age and older : The recommended dose of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is two 600 mg extended - release tablets twice daily , within one hour after morning and evening meals , for a total daily dose of 2400 mg .
( 2 ) Monitoring : Assess hepatic function enzymes prior to initiation of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and monitor periodically during treatment .
( 2 , 5 . 1 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Extended - release tablets , 600 mg .
Extended - release tablets : 600 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is contraindicated in patients with : • Active liver disease or persistent hepatic function enzyme elevations greater than or equal to 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ≥ 3 xULN ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
• A history of allergic reaction to zileuton or any of the ingredients of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ( e . g . , rash , eosinophilia , etc . ) .
• Active liver disease or persistent hepatic function enzyme elevations ≥ 3 times the upper limit of normal .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • History of allergic reaction to zileuton or any of the ingredients of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity : Elevations of one or more hepatic function enzymes and bilirubin may occur with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Assess hepatic function enzymes prior to initiation of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , monthly for the first 3 months , every 2 - 3 months for the remainder of the first year , and periodically thereafter .
Use Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and / or have a history of liver disease .
( 5 . 1 ) Neuropsychiatric Events : Neuropsychiatric events , including sleep disorders and behavior changes , may occur with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Instruct patients to be alert for neuropsychiatric events .
Evaluate the risks and benefits of continuing treatment with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets if such events occur .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hepatotoxicity Elevations of one or more hepatic function enzymes and bilirubin may occur during Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets therapy .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress to clinically significant liver injury , remain unchanged , or resolve with continued treatment , usually within three weeks .
The ALT ( SGPT ) test is considered the most sensitive indicator of liver injury for Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Assess hepatic function enzymes prior to initiation of , and during therapy with , Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Assess serum ALT before treatment begins , once a month for the first 3 months , every 2 - 3 months for the remainder of the first year , and periodically thereafter for patients receiving long - term Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets therapy .
If clinical signs and / or symptoms of liver dysfunction develop ( e . g . , right upper quadrant pain , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , or “ flu - like ” symptoms ) or transaminase elevations ≥ 5 xULN occur , discontinue Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and follow hepatic function enzymes until normal .
In controlled and open - label clinical studies involving more than 5000 patients treated with zileuton immediate - release tablets , the overall rate of ALT elevation ≥ 3 xULN was 3 . 2 % .
In these trials , one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice , which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy .
An additional 3 patients with transaminase elevations developed mild hyperbilirubinemia that was less than 3 xULN .
There was no evidence of hypersensitivity or other alternative etiologies for these findings .
Since treatment with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets may result in increased hepatic function enzymes and liver injury , Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and / or have a past history of liver disease .
5 . 2 Neuropsychiatric Events Neuropsychiatric events have been reported in adult and adolescent patients taking zileuton , the active ingredient in Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and zileuton immediate - release tablets .
Post - marketing reports with zileuton include sleep disorders and behavior changes .
The clinical details of some post - marketing reports involving zileuton appear consistent with a drug - induced effect .
Patient and prescribers should be alert for neuropsychiatric events .
Patients should be instructed to notify their prescriber if these changes occur .
Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits of continuing treatment with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets if such events occur [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hepatotoxicity : Elevations of one or more hepatic function enzymes and bilirubin may occur during Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
The most commonly occurring adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets are sinusitis , nausea , and pharyngolaryngeal pain .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) included : sinusitis , nausea , and pharyngolaryngeal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Short - Term Clinical Studies Experience The safety data described below reflect exposure to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets in 199 patients for 12 weeks duration .
In a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older with asthma , patients received Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets two 600 mg tablets ( n = 199 ) or placebo ( n = 198 ) twice daily by mouth .
Eighty - three percent of patients were white , 48 % were male , and the mean age was 34 years .
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( occurring at a frequency of ≥ 5 % ) in Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets - treated patients and at a frequency greater than placebo - treated patients are reflected in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions with ≥ 5 % Incidence in a 12 ‑ Week Placebo - Controlled Trial in Patients with Asthma . Adverse Reaction Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets 600 mg 2 Tablets Twice Daily N = 199 n ( % ) Placebo2 Tablets Twice Daily N = 198 n ( % ) Sinusitis 13 ( 6 . 5 ) 8 ( 4 . 0 ) Nausea 10 ( 5 . 0 ) 3 ( 1 . 5 ) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 10 ( 5 . 0 ) 8 ( 4 . 0 ) Less common adverse reactions occurring at a frequency ≥ 1 % and more often in the Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets group than in the placebo group included gastrointestinal disorders ( upper abdominal pain , diarrhea , dyspepsia , vomiting ) , rash , hypersensitivity , and hepatotoxicity .
There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based upon gender .
The clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients < 18 years of age or non - Caucasians to determine whether there is any difference in adverse reactions based upon age or race .
Hepatotoxicity In the 12 - week placebo - controlled trial , the incidence of ALT elevations ( ≥ 3 xULN ) was 2 . 5 % ( 5 of 199 ) in the Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets group , compared to 0 . 5 % ( 1 of 198 ) in the placebo group .
In the Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets group , the majority of ALT elevations ( 60 % ) occurred in the first month of treatment , and in 2 of the 5 patients in the Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets group , ALT elevations were detected 14 days after completion of the 3 - month study treatment .
The levels returned to < 2 xULN or normal within 9 and 12 days , respectively .
The ALT elevations in the other 3 patients were observed to return to < 2 xULN or normal within 15 , 19 , and 31 days after Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets discontinuation .
There appeared to be no clinically relevant relationship between the time of onset and the magnitude of the first elevation or the magnitude of first elevation and time to resolution .
The hepatic function enzyme elevations attributed to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets did not result in any cases of jaundice , development of chronic liver disease , or death in this clinical trial .
6 . 2 Long - Term Clinical Studies Experience The safety of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets was evaluated in one 6 - month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older with asthma .
Patients received two 600 mg Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 619 ) or placebo ( n = 307 ) twice daily by mouth along with usual asthma care .
Eighty - six percent of patients were white , 40 % were male , and the overall mean age was 36 .
The rate and type of adverse reactions observed in this study were comparable to the adverse reactions observed in the 12 - week study .
Other commonly reported adverse reactions ( occurring at a frequency of ≥ 5 % ) in Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets - treated patients and at a frequency greater than placebo - treated patients included the following : headache ( 23 % ) , upper respiratory tract infection ( 9 % ) , myalgia ( 7 % ) , and diarrhea ( 5 % ) compared to 21 % , 7 % , 5 % and 2 % , respectively , in the placebo - treated group .
ALT elevations ( ≥ 3 xULN ) were observed in 1 . 8 % of patients treated with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets compared to 0 . 7 % in patients treated with placebo .
The majority of elevations ( 82 % ) were reported within the first 3 months of treatment and resolved within 21 days for most of these patients after discontinuation of the drug .
The hepatic function enzyme elevations attributed to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets did not result in any cases of jaundice , development of chronic liver disease , or death in this clinical trial .
Occurrences of low white blood cell ( WBC ) count ( < 3 . 0 x 109 / L ) were observed in 2 . 6 % ( 15 of 619 ) of the Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets - treated patients and in 1 . 7 % ( 5 of 307 ) of the placebo - treated patients .
The WBC counts returned to normal or baseline following discontinuation of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
The clinical significance of these findings is not known .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of zileuton immediate - release tablets and may be applicable to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship .
Cases of severe hepatic injury have been reported in patients taking zileuton immediate - release tablets .
These cases included death , life - threatening liver injury with recovery , symptomatic jaundice , hyperbilirubinemia , and elevations of ALT > 8 xULN .
Cases of sleep disorders and behavior changes have also been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 . ) ]
.
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following study results were obtained using zileuton immediate - release tablets but the conclusions also apply to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
• Zileuton increases theophylline levels .
Reduce theophylline dose and monitor levels .
( 7 . 1 ) • Zileuton increases warfarin levels .
Monitor prothrombin time and adjust warfarin dose accordingly .
( 7 . 2 ) • Zileuton increases propranolol levels and beta - blocker activity .
Monitor appropriately .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Theophylline In a drug - interaction study in 16 healthy subjects , co - administration of multiple doses of zileuton immediate - release tablets ( 800 mg every 12 hours ) and theophylline ( 200 mg every 6 hours ) for 5 days resulted in a significant decrease ( approximately 50 % ) in steady - state clearance of theophylline , an approximate doubling of theophylline AUC , and an increase in theophylline Cmax ( by 73 % ) .
The elimination half - life of theophylline was increased by 24 % .
Also , during co - administration , theophylline - related adverse reactions were observed more frequently than after theophylline alone .
Upon initiation of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets in patients receiving theophylline , the theophylline dosage should be reduced by approximately one - half and plasma theophylline concentrations monitored .
Similarly , when initiating therapy with theophylline in a patient receiving Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , the maintenance dose and / or dosing interval of theophylline should be adjusted accordingly and guided by serum theophylline determinations .
7 . 2 Warfarin Concomitant administration of multiple doses of zileuton immediate - release tablets ( 600 mg every 6 hours ) and warfarin ( fixed daily dose obtained by titration in each subject ) to 30 healthy male subjects resulted in a 15 % decrease in R ‑ warfarin clearance and an increase in AUC of 22 % .
The pharmacokinetics of S - warfarin were not affected .
These pharmacokinetic changes were accompanied by a clinically significant increase in prothrombin times .
Monitoring of prothrombin time , or other suitable coagulation tests , with the appropriate dose titration of warfarin is recommended in patients receiving concomitant Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and warfarin therapy .
7 . 3 Propranolol Co - administration of zileuton immediate - release tablets and propranolol results in a significant increase in propranolol concentrations .
Administration of a single 80 mg dose of propranolol in 16 healthy male subjects who received zileuton immediate - release tablets 600 mg every 6 hours for 5 days resulted in a 42 % decrease in propranolol clearance .
This resulted in an increase in propranolol Cmax , AUC , and elimination half - life by 52 % , 104 % , and 25 % , respectively .
There was an increase in β - blockade as shown by a decrease in heart rate associated with the co - administration of these drugs .
Patients concomitantly on Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and propranolol should be closely monitored and the dose of propranolol reduced as necessary . No formal drug - drug interaction studies between zileuton and other beta - adrenergic blocking agents ( i . e . , β - blockers ) have been conducted .
It is reasonable to employ appropriate clinical monitoring when these drugs are co - administered with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
7 . 4 Other Concomitant Drug Therapy Drug - drug interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects between zileuton immediate - release tablets and prednisone and ethinyl estradiol ( oral contraceptive ) , drugs known to be metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme , have shown no significant interaction .
However , no formal drug - drug interaction studies between zileuton and CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketaconazole , have been conducted .
It is reasonable to employ appropriate clinical monitoring when these drugs are co - administered with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Drug - drug interaction studies in healthy subjects have been conducted with zileuton immediate - release tablets and digoxin , phenytoin , sulfasalazine , and naproxen .
There was no significant interaction between zileuton and any of these drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Information on specific populations is based on studies conducted with zileuton immediate - release tablets and is applicable to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Hepatic Impairment : Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease and in patients with elevated hepatic function enzymes ≥ 3 times the upper limit of normal .
( 4 , 5 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate human data on Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk .
In animal studies , oral administration of zileuton to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis produced adverse developmental outcomes .
Structural abnormalities ( cleft palate ) were observed in rabbits at a dose similar to the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ( MRHD ) , and alterations to growth ( reduced fetal body weight and increased skeletal variations ) were observed in rats at maternal plasma exposures 20 times greater than at the MRHD [ see Data ] .
In a pre - and post - natal development study , oral administration of zileuton to pregnant rats from organogenesis through weaning at maternal plasma exposures 20 times greater than the MRHD resulted in reduced pup survival and body weights .
Zileuton and / or its metabolites cross the placental barrier of rats ; therefore , Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets may be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to asthma medications during pregnancy .
For more information , contact the MothersToBaby Pregnancy Studies conducted by the Organization of Teratology Information Specialists at 1 - 877 - 311 - 8972 or visit http : / / mothertobaby . org / pregnancy - studies / .
Data Animal Data In a fertility and general reproductive performance study in rats , 0 , 15 , 75 , 150 or 300 mg / kg / day zileuton was administered orally to male and female rats .
The treated males were dosed daily for 100 days prior to mating with the treated females and 80 days prior to mating with untreated females , and throughout the mating periods .
The treated females were dosed for 14 days before mating with untreated males and dosing continued throughout gestation , and in 1 / 3 of the females through parturition and lactation period .
Maternal body weight gain was reduced at 150 and 300 mg / kg / day groups ( 9 - 12 % differences in body weight relative to controls ) .
During fetal evaluation , zileuton produced lower litter size ( 7 . 1 pup / dams at 300 mg / kg / day vs . 9 . 6 pup / dams at 150 mg / kg / day vs . 13 . 5 pup / dams in control group ) , lower fetal weights ( - 9 % ) , decreased viable fetuses , and increased in unossification of fetal skeletal structure at 300 mg / kg at exposures greater than 20 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with data obtained from the comparable doses of 3 - month general toxicity study ) .
There were no embryofetal effects at 150 mg / kg / day .
During post - natal development evaluation , zileuton produced decrease in pup viability ( - 16 % at 150 mg / kg / day and - 43 . 5 % at 300 mg / kg / day on lactation Day 4 ) as well as depression of body weight gain in pups at ≥ 150 mg / kg / day at exposures close to 20 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with data obtained from the comparable doses of 1 - year general toxicity study ) .
Observations of lower pup weight and survival rate at 300 mg / kg / day group were confirmed in a peri - & post - natal study administered with the same dose levels in pregnant rats .
In a teratology study in pregnant rabbits , 0 , 15 , 50 or 150 mg / kg / day zileuton was administered orally to pregnant animals during organogenesis .
Cleft palate was noted in three of 118 ( 2 . 5 % ) rabbit fetuses ( or 2 of 17 litters ) at 150 mg / kg / day .
Additionally , two fetuses ( 1 . 7 % ) had domed head and two fetuses ( 1 . 7 % ) had hydrocephalus also at 150 mg / kg / day which was equivalent to the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
There were no adverse developmental outcomes at 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately one - third the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Oral dose of 5 mg radiolabeled zileuton indicated that zileuton crosses the placental barrier of rats .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Zileuton and / or its metabolites are excreted in rat milk .
It is not known if zileuton is excreted in human milk , nor are there data on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or effects on maternal milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for tumorigenicity of zileuton shown in animal studies , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data Following an oral 70 mg / kg dose of radiolabeled 14 C - zileuton to lactating rats , total radioactivity was distributed into the milk of dams , but the mean concentrations did not exceed those in plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets in pediatric patients under 12 years of age have not been established .
FDA has not required pediatric studies in patients under the age of 12 years due to risk of hepatotoxicity .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is not appropriate for children less than 12 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Subgroup analysis of controlled and open - label clinical studies with zileuton immediate - release tablets suggests that females ≥ 65 years of age appear to be at increased risk of ALT elevations .
In Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets placebo - controlled studies there were no discernable trends in ALT elevations noted in subset analyses for patients ≥ 65 years of age , although the database may not have been sufficiently large to detect a trend [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Dosing adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction or patients undergoing hemodialysis is not necessary [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease or persistent ALT elevations ≥ 3 xULN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Human experience of acute overdose with zileuton is limited .
A patient in a clinical study took between 6 . 6 and 9 . 0 grams of zileuton immediate - release tablets in a single dose .
Vomiting was induced and the patient recovered without sequelae .
Zileuton is not removed by dialysis .
Should an overdose occur , the patient should be treated symptomatically and supportive measures instituted as required .
If indicated , elimination of unabsorbed drug should be achieved by emesis or gastric lavage ; usual precautions should be observed to maintain the airway .
A Certified Poison Control Center should be consulted for up - to - date information on management of overdose with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
11 DESCRIPTION Zileuton is an orally active inhibitor of 5 ‑ lipoxygenase , the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid .
Zileuton has the chemical name ( ± ) - 1 - ( 1 - Benzo [ b ] thien - 2 - ylethyl ) - 1 - hydroxyurea and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zileuton has the molecular formula C11H12N2O2S and a molecular weight of 236 . 29 .
It is a racemic mixture ( 50 : 50 ) of R ( + ) and S ( - ) enantiomers .
Zileuton is a practically odorless , white , crystalline powder that is soluble in methanol and ethanol , slightly soluble in acetonitrile , and practically insoluble in water and hexane .
The melting point ranges from 144 . 2ºC to 145 . 2ºC .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets for oral administration are triple - layer tablets comprised of an immediate - release layer , a middle ( barrier ) layer , and an extended - release layer .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets are oblong , film - coated tablets with one red layer between two white layers , debossed on one side with “ CT2 ” .
Each tablet contains 600 mg of zileuton and the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , ferric oxide , glyceryl behenate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zileuton is an inhibitor of 5 - lipoxygenase and thus inhibits leukotriene ( LTB4 , LTC4 , LTD4 and LTE4 ) formation .
Both the R ( + ) and S ( - ) enantiomers are pharmacologically active as 5 - lipoxygenase inhibitors in in vitro and in vivo systems .
Leukotrienes are substances that induce numerous biological effects including augmentation of neutrophil and eosinophil migration , neutrophil and monocyte aggregation , leukocyte adhesion , increased capillary permeability , and smooth muscle contraction .
These effects contribute to inflammation , edema , mucus secretion , and bronchoconstriction in the airways of asthmatic patients .
LTB4 , a chemoattractant for neutrophils and eosinophils , and cysteinyl leukotrienes ( LTC4 , LTD4 , LTE4 ) can be measured in a number of biological fluids including bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF ) , blood , urine and sputum from asthmatic patients .
Zileuton is an orally active inhibitor of ex vivo LTB4 formation in several species , including mice , rats , rabbits , dogs , sheep , and monkeys .
Zileuton inhibits arachidonic acid - induced ear edema in mice , neutrophil migration in mice in response to polyacrylamide gel , and eosinophil migration into the lungs of antigen - challenged sheep .
In a mouse model of allergic inflammation , zileuton inhibited neutrophil and eosinophil influx , reduced the levels of multiple cytokines in the BALF , and reduced serum IgE levels .
Zileuton inhibits leukotriene - dependent smooth muscle contractions in vitro in guinea pig and human airways .
The compound inhibits leukotriene - dependent bronchospasm in antigen and arachidonic acid - challenged guinea pigs .
In antigen - challenged sheep , zileuton inhibits late - phase bronchoconstriction and airway hyperreactivity .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Zileuton is an orally active inhibitor of ex vivo LTB4 formation in humans .
The inhibition of LTB4 formation in whole blood is directly related to zileuton plasma levels .
In patients with asthma , the IC50 is estimated to be 0 . 46 µg / mL , and maximum inhibition ≥ 80 % is reached at a zileuton concentration of 2 µg / mL .
In patients with asthma receiving zileuton immediate - release tablets 600 mg four times daily , peak plasma levels averaging 5 . 9 µg / mL were associated with a mean LTB4 inhibition of 98 % .
Zileuton inhibits the synthesis of cysteinyl leukotrienes as demonstrated by reduced urinary LTE4 levels .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Information on the pharmacokinetics of zileuton following the administration of zileuton immediate - release tablets is available in healthy subjects .
The results of two clinical pharmacology studies using Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets are described below .
Absorption A three - way crossover study was conducted in healthy male and female subjects ( n = 23 ) with a mean age of 33 ( range 20 - 55 ) following single dose of 1200 mg ( 2 x 600 mg ) Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets under fasted and fed conditions , and two doses of 600 mg zileuton immediate - release tablets every 6 hours under fasted conditions .
Food increased the peak mean plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and the mean extent of absorption ( AUC ) of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets by 18 and 34 % , respectively , and prolonged Tmax from 2 . 1 hours to 4 . 3 hours .
The relative bioavailability of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets to zileuton immediate - release tablets with respect to Cmax and AUC under fasted conditions were 0 . 39 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 36 , 0 . 43 ) and 0 . 57 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 52 , 0 . 62 ) , respectively .
Similarly , relative bioavailability of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets to zileuton immediate - release tablets with respect to Cmax and AUC under fed conditions were 0 . 45 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 41 , 0 . 49 ) and 0 . 76 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 70 , 0 . 83 ) , respectively .
A three - way crossover study was conducted in healthy male and female subjects ( n = 24 ) with a mean age of 35 ( range 19 - 56 ) following multiple doses of 1200 mg ( 2 x 600 mg ) Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets administered every 12 hours under fasted and fed conditions , and 600 mg zileuton immediate - release tablets every 6 hours under fed conditions until steady state zileuton levels were achieved .
Food increased AUC and Cmin of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets by 43 % and 170 % , respectively , but had no effect on Cmax .
Therefore , Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is recommended to be administered with food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
At steady state , relative bioavailability of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets to zileuton immediate - release tablets with respect to Cmax , Cmin , and AUC were 0 . 65 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 60 , 0 . 71 ) , 1 . 05 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 88 , 1 . 25 ) and 0 . 85 ( 90 % CI : 0 . 78 , 0 . 92 ) respectively .
These data indicate that at steady state under fed conditions the Cmax of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is about 35 % lower than that of zileuton immediate - release tablets but the Cmin and AUC are similar for both formulations .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of zileuton is approximately 1 . 2 L / kg .
Zileuton is 93 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily to albumin , with minor binding to α1 ‑ acid glycoprotein .
Elimination Elimination of zileuton is predominantly via metabolism with a mean terminal half - life of 3 . 2 hours .
Apparent oral clearance ( CL / F ) of zileuton is 669 mL / min .
Zileuton activity is primarily due to the parent drug .
Studies with radiolabeled drug have demonstrated that orally administered zileuton is well absorbed into the systemic circulation with 94 . 5 % and 2 . 2 % of the radiolabeled dose recovered in urine and feces , respectively .
Metabolism In vitro studies utilizing human liver microsomes have shown that zileuton and its N ‑ dehydroxylated metabolite can be oxidatively metabolized by CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 .
Several zileuton metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
These include two diastereomeric O - glucuronide conjugates ( major metabolites ) and an N ‑ dehydroxylated metabolite ( A - 66193 ) of zileuton .
The urinary excretion of the inactive A - 66193 metabolite and unchanged zileuton each accounted for less than 0 . 5 % of the single radiolabeled dose .
Multiple doses of 1200 mg Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets twice daily resulted in peak plasma levels of 4 . 9 µg / mL of the inactive metabolite A - 66193 with an AUC of 93 µg · hr / mL , showing large intersubject variability .
This inactive metabolite has been shown to be formed by the gastrointestinal microflora prior to the absorption of zileuton and its formation increases with delayed absorption of zileuton .
Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of zileuton immediate - release tablets were similar in healthy subjects and in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal insufficiency .
In subjects with renal failure requiring hemodialysis , zileuton pharmacokinetics were not altered by hemodialysis and a very small percentage of the administered zileuton dose ( < 0 . 5 % ) was removed by hemodialysis .
Hence , dosing adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction or undergoing hemodialysis is not necessary .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of zileuton immediate - release tablets were compared between subjects with mild and moderate chronic hepatic insufficiency .
The mean apparent plasma clearance of total zileuton in subjects with hepatic impairment was approximately half the value of the healthy subjects .
The percent binding of zileuton to plasma proteins after multiple dosing was significantly reduced in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease or persistent ALT elevations ≥ 3 xULN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Geriatric Use The pharmacokinetics of zileuton immediate - release tablets were investigated in healthy elderly subjects ( ages 65 to 81 years , 9 males , 9 females ) and healthy young subjects ( ages 20 to 40 years , 5 males , 4 females ) after single and multiple oral doses of 600 mg zileuton every 6 hours .
Zileuton pharmacokinetics were similar in healthy elderly subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) compared to healthy younger adults ( 20 to 40 years ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In 2 - year carcinogenicity studies , increases in the incidence of liver , kidney , and vascular tumors in female mice and a trend toward an increase in the incidence of liver tumors in male mice were observed at 450 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 5 times [ females ] or 8 times [ males ] the systemic exposure [ AUC = 64 μg · hr / mL ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
No increase in the incidence of tumors was observed at 150 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 2 - 3 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
In rats , an increase in the incidence of kidney tumors was observed in both sexes at 170 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 8 times [ males ] or 16 times [ females ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
No increased incidence of kidney tumors was seen at 80 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 4 times [ males ] or 7 times [ females ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
Although a dose - related increased incidence of benign Leydig cell tumors was observed , Leydig cell tumorigenesis was prevented by supplementing male rats with testosterone .
Zileuton was negative in genotoxicity studies including bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) using S . typhimurium and E . coli , chromosome aberration in human lymphocytes , in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) , in rat hepatocytes with or without zileuton pretreatment and in mouse and rat kidney cells with zileuton pretreatment , and mouse micronucleus assays .
However , a dose - related increase in DNA adduct formation was reported in kidneys and livers of female mice treated with zileuton .
Although some evidence of DNA damage was observed in a UDS assay in hepatocytes isolated from Aroclor - 1254 - treated rats , no such finding was noticed in hepatocytes isolated from monkeys , where the metabolic profile of zileuton is more similar to that of humans .
In reproductive performance / fertility studies , zileuton produced no effects on fertility in rats at oral doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( providing at least 10 times [ male rats ] and greater than 20 times [ female rats ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
However , reduction in fetal implants was observed at oral doses of 150 mg / kg / day and higher ( providing approximately 20 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the MRHD ) .
Comparative systemic exposure ( AUC ) is based on measurements in male rats or nonpregnant female rats obtained from the comparable doses of 3 - month or 1 - year general toxicity study at similar dosages .
Increases in gestation length , prolongation of estrus cycle , and increases in stillbirths were observed at oral doses of 75 mg / kg / day and higher ( providing approximately 7 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at MRHD on an AUC basis with data obtained from the comparable doses of 2 - year dietary carcinogenicity study ) .
No adverse effects were observed at 15 mg / kg / day in the study at estimated exposure similar to that at the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , placebo - controlled , multicenter trial of 12 weeks duration in patients 12 years of age and older with asthma .
The 12 - week trial included 199 patients randomized to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ( two 600 mg tablets twice daily ) and 198 to placebo .
Eighty - three percent of patients were white , 48 % were male , and the mean age was 34 years .
The mean baseline FEV1 percent predicted was 58 . 5 % .
Assessment of efficacy was based upon forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV1 ) at 12 weeks .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets demonstrated a significantly greater improvement in mean change from baseline trough FEV1 at 12 weeks compared to placebo ( 0 . 39 L vs . 0 . 27 L ; p = 0 . 021 ) .
The mean change from baseline FEV1 over the course of the 12 - week study is shown in Figure 1 .
Secondary endpoints ( PEFR and rescue beta - agonist use ) were supportive of efficacy .
Examination of gender subgroups did not identify differences in response between men and women .
The database was not large enough to assess whether there were differences in response in age or racial subgroups .
Figure 1 .
Mean Change from Baseline in Trough FEV1 in 12 - Week Clinical Trial in Patients with Asthma .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * p ≤ 0 . 050 .
Endpoint analysis based on last - observation - carried - forward ( LOCF ) methodology .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets are debossed on one side with “ CT2 ” ; they are available in bottles of 120 tablets ( NDC 66993 - 485 - 32 ) .
Store between 20 and 25 ° C ( 68 - 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86ºF ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Information for Patients Patients should be told that : · Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and should be taken regularly as prescribed , even during symptom - free periods .
· Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is a leukotriene synthesis inhibitor which works by inhibiting the formation of leukotrienes .
· Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets should be taken within one hour after morning and evening meals .
· Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets should not be cut , chewed or crushed .
· Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is not a bronchodilator and should not be used to treat acute episodes of asthma .
· When taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , they should not decrease the dose or stop taking any other antiasthma medications unless instructed by a health care provider .
If a dose is missed , they should take the next dose at the scheduled time and not double the dose .
· While using Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , medical attention should be sought if short - acting bronchodilators are needed more often than usual , or if more than the maximum number of inhalations of short - acting bronchodilator treatment prescribed for a 24 - hour period are needed .
· The most serious side effect of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is potential elevation of liver enzymes ( in 2 % of patients ) and that , while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , they must return for liver enzyme test monitoring on a regular basis .
· If they experience signs and / or symptoms of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , right upper quadrant pain , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , or “ flu - like ” symptoms ) , they should contact their health care provider immediately .
· Patients should be instructed to notify their healthcare provider if neuropsychiatric events occur while using Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
· Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets can interact with other drugs and that , while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , they should consult their health care provider before starting or stopping any prescription or non - prescription medicines .
· A patient leaflet is included with the tablets .
CTZC - 009 - 0119 - 02 - SPL - 1 Manufactured for : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 17 . 2 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets carefully before you start taking it and read it each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your health care provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is a medicine that is used to prevent asthma attacks and for long - term management of asthma in adults and children 12 years of age and older .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets blocks the production of leukotrienes .
Leukotrienes are substances that may contribute to your asthma .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets is not a rescue medicine ( it is not a bronchodilator ) and should not be used if you need relief right away for an asthma attack .
Who should not take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
Do not take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets if you have : • active liver disease or repeated blood tests showing elevated liver enzymes ( substances released by the liver ) .
• ever had an allergic reaction to Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets or any of the ingredients in Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
What should I tell my health care provider before taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets may not be right for you .
Tell your health care provider if you : • have ever had liver problems , including hepatitis , jaundice ( yellow eyes or skin ) , or dark urine .
• drink alcohol .
Tell your health care provider how much and how often you drink alcohol .
• have difficulty swallowing pills .
• are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Do not take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets during pregnancy unless you and your health care provider decide that taking the medicine is more important than the possible risk to your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets passes into your breast milk .
You and your health care provider should decide if you will take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your health care provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Your health care provider may need to adjust the doses of certain medicines while you are taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Talk with your health care provider before starting or stopping any prescription or nonprescription medicine .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your health care provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
• Take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets exactly as prescribed by your health care provider .
Do not decrease the dose of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets or stop taking the medicine without talking to your health care provider first , even if you have no asthma symptoms .
• Take two Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets two times each day within one hour after your morning and evening meals .
• Swallow Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets whole .
Do not chew , cut or crush Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Tell your health care provider if you cannot swallow the tablets whole .
• Follow your health care provider ’ s instructions for what to do if you get sudden symptoms of an asthma attack .
You can continue taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets during asthma attacks .
• Get medical help right away if you need to use your rescue medicine more often than usual or if you use the highest number of “ puffs ” prescribed for one 24 - hour period .
These could be signs that your asthma is getting worse .
This means that your asthma therapy may need to be changed .
• Keep taking your other asthma medicines as directed while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
• If you miss a dose , just take your next scheduled dose when it is due .
Do not double the dose .
• If you take too much Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , call your health care provider or a Poison Control Center right away .
What are the possible side effects of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets can cause serious side effects .
Liver problems .
Liver function enzymes and bilirubin can increase while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , and severe liver injury can occur .
Sleep disorders and changes in your behavior can happen while you take Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any sleep problems or changes in behavior .
• Keep all of your health care provider ’ s appointments and be sure to follow all of your health care provider ’ s instructions .
Have your blood tests done as ordered to check your liver enzymes .
• Tell your health care provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms : pain on the right side of your abdomen ( stomach area ) , nausea , tiredness , lack of energy , itching , yellow skin or yellow color in the whites of your eyes , dark urine , or “ flu - like ” symptoms .
Some of the most common side effects are : • nose and throat irritation • sinusitis • upper respiratory infection • throat pain • headache • muscle aches • nausea • diarrhea Allergic reactions can happen while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
Tell your health care provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms : rash or hives .
Tell your health care provider if you have any new or unusual symptoms that bother you or do not go away while taking Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
For more information , ask your health care provider or pharmacist .
How should I store Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
• Store Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20ºC - 25ºC ) .
• Protect Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets from light and replace the cap each time after use .
Keep Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets .
If you would like more information about Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets , talk with your health care provider or pharmacist .
You can ask your health care provider or pharmacist for information about Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information call 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 .
What are the ingredients in Zileuton Extended - Release Tablets ?
Active ingredient : zileuton Inactive ingredients : crospovidone , ferric oxide , glyceryl behenate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , and talc .
Issued 03 / 2019 CTZC - 009 - 0119 - 02 - SPL - 1 Manufactured for : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
