Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate USP 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • for effective treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • for effective relief of itchy , scaly skin between the toes • clears up most athlete ' s foot infection and with daily use helps keep it from coming back Warnings For external use only Do not use • on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) • irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product For athlete ' s foot • use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor • pay special attention to the spaces between the toes • wear well fitting ventilated shoes • change shoes and socks at least once daily For ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • close cap tightly after use Inactive ingredients Ceteth - 20 , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Chlorocresol , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Phosphate Monobasic , White Petrolatum Questions ?
< For questions or comments or ot reprot an undesired reaction or side effect , please call > Principal Display Panel – Tube RITE AID Athleetes Foot * Compare to Active Ingredient of Tinactin ® NDC 11822 - 0051 - 1 Antifungal Cream ( Tolnaftate 1 % ) CURES and PREVENTS Most ATHLETE ' S FOOT , Relives Burning , Itching and cracking Net Wt .
1 . 0 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Carton RITE AID Athlete ' s Foot NDC 11822 - 0051 - 1 Antifungal * Compare to Active Ingredient of Tinactin ® Cream ( Tolnaftate 1 % ) Cures and Prevents Most Athlete ' s Foot relieves burning , itching , & cracking Net Wt .
1 . 0 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
