Rx Only DESCRIPTION Tropicamide Ophthalmic Solution , USP is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution in two strengths .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established name : Tropicamide ophthalmic solution Chemical name : Benzeneacetamide , N - ethyl - α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - N - ( 4 - pyridinylmethyl ) - .
Each mL contains : Active : tropicamide 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
pH 4 . 0 - 5 . 8 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle to cholinergic stimulation , dilating the pupil ( mydriasis ) .
The stronger preparation ( 1 % ) also paralyzes accommodation .
This preparation acts in 15 - 30 minutes , and the duration of activity is approximately 3 - 8 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require 24 hours .
The weaker strength may be useful in producing mydriasis with only slight cycloplegia .
Heavily pigmented irides may require more doses than lightly pigmented irides .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For mydriasis and cycloplegia for diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS For topical ophthalmic use only .
Not for injection .
This preparation may cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
The possibility of psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances due to hypersensitivity to anticholinergic drugs should be considered .
Mydriatics may produce a transient elevation of intraocular pressure .
Remove contact lenses before using .
PRECAUTIONS General : The lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation to reduce excessive systemic absorption .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Patient should be advised not to drive or engage in potentially hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patient may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ' s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ' s hands following administration .
Drug Interactions : Tropicamide may interfere with the antihypertensive action of carbachol , pilocarpine , or ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There have been no long - term studies done using tropicamide in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with tropicamide .
It is also not known whether tropicamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Tropicamide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when tropicamide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Tropicamide may rarely cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs ( See WARNINGS ) .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular : Transient stinging , blurred vision , photophobia and superficial punctate keratitis have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Increased intraocular pressure has been reported following the use of mydriatics .
Non - Ocular : Dryness of the mouth , tachycardia , headache , allergic reactions , nausea , vomiting , pallor , central nervous system disturbances and muscle rigidity have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardio - respiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For refraction , instill one or two drops of 1 % solution in the eye ( s ) , repeated in five minutes .
If patient is not seen within 20 to 30 minutes , an additional drop may be instilled to prolong mydriatic effect .
For examination of fundus , instill one or two drops of 0 . 5 % solution 15 or 20 minutes prior to examination .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require higher strength or more doses .
Mydriasis will reverse spontaneously with time , typically in 4 to 8 hours .
However , in some cases , complete recovery may take up to 24 hours .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 mL and 15 mL in plastic dispensers .
1 % - 3 mL : NDC 61314 - 355 - 01 1 % - 15 mL : NDC 61314 - 355 - 02 STORAGE : Store at 8 ° to 27 ° C ( 46 ° to 80 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperatures .
Keep container tightly closed .
Revised : 11 - 2021 300051858 - 1121 SANDOZ Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61314 - 355 - 01 Tropicamide Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % Rx only STERILE 3 mL SANDOZ A Novartis Division Side Panel : A Sterile Anticholinergic Agent Usual Dosage : One or two drops topically in the eye ( s ) .
Read enclosed insert .
Precaution : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Storage : Store at 8 ° to 27 ° C ( 46 ° to 80 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperature .
Keep container tightly closed .
Ingredients : Each mL contains : Active : tropicamide 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
pH 4 . 0 - 5 . 8 .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Product of Japan 9017187 - 0620 Rev . 06 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
