DESCRIPTION : Each Asacol ® delayed - release tablet for oral administration contains 400 mg of mesalamine , an anti - inflammatory drug .
The Asacol delayed - release tablets are coated with acrylic based resin , Eudragit S ( methacrylic acid copolymer B , NF ) , which dissolves at pH 7 or greater , releasing mesalamine in the terminal ileum and beyond for topical anti - inflammatory action in the colon .
Mesalamine has the chemical name 5 - amino - 2 - hydroxybenzoic acid ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each tablet contains colloidal silicon dioxide , dibutyl phthalate , edible black ink , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer B ( Eudragit S ) , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Mesalamine is thought to be the major therapeutically active part of the sulfasalazine molecule in the treatment of ulcerative colitis .
Sulfasalazine is converted to equimolar amounts of sulfapyridine and mesalamine by bacterial action in the colon .
The usual oral dose of sulfasalazine for active ulcerative colitis is 3 to 4 grams daily in divided doses , which provides 1 . 2 to 1 . 6 grams of mesalamine to the colon .
The mechanism of action of mesalamine ( and sulfasalazine ) is unknown , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways , i . e . , prostanoids , and through the lipoxygenase pathways , i . e . , leukotrienes ( LTs ) and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids ( HETEs ) , is increased in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease , and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin ( PG ) production in the colon .
Pharmacokinetics : Asacol tablets are coated with an acrylic - based resin that delays release of mesalamine until it reaches the terminal ileum and beyond .
This has been demonstrated in human studies conducted with radiological and serum markers .
Approximately 28 % of the mesalamine in Asacol tablets is absorbed after oral ingestion , leaving the remainder available for topical action and excretion in the feces .
Absorption of mesalamine is similar in fasted and fed subjects .
The absorbed mesalamine is rapidly acetylated in the gut mucosal wall and by the liver .
It is excreted mainly by the kidney as N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid .
Mesalamine from orally administered Asacol tablets appears to be more extensively absorbed than the mesalamine released from sulfasalazine .
Maximum plasma levels of mesalamine and N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid following multiple Asacol doses are about 1 . 5 to 2 times higher than those following an equivalent dose of mesalamine in the form of sulfasalazine .
Combined mesalamine and N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid AUC ’ s and urine drug dose recoveries following multiple doses of Asacol tablets are about 1 . 3 to 1 . 5 times higher than those following an equivalent dose of mesalamine in the form of sulfasalazine .
The tmax for mesalamine and its metabolite , N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid , is usually delayed , reflecting the delayed release , and ranges from 4 to 12 hours .
The half - lives of elimination ( t1 / 2 elm ) for mesalamine and N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid are usually about 12 hours , but are variable , ranging from 2 to 15 hours .
There is a large intersubject variability in the plasma concentrations of mesalamine and N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid and in their elimination half - lives following administration of Asacol tablets .
Clinical Studies : Mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis : Two placebo - controlled studies have demonstrated the efficacy of Asacol tablets in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis .
In one randomized , double - blind , multi - center trial of 158 patients , Asacol doses of 1 . 6 g / day and 2 . 4 g / day were compared to placebo .
At the dose of 2 . 4 g / day , Asacol tablets reduced the disease activity , with 21 of 43 ( 49 % ) Asacol patients showing improvement in sigmoidoscopic appearance of the bowel compared to 12 of 44 ( 27 % ) placebo patients ( p = 0 . 048 ) .
In addition , significantly more patients in the Asacol 2 . 4 g / day group showed improvement in rectal bleeding and stool frequency .
The 1 . 6 g / day dose did not produce consistent evidence of effectiveness .
In a second randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 6 weeks duration in 87 ulcerative colitis patients , Asacol tablets , at a dose of 4 . 8 g / day , gave sigmoidoscopic improvement in 28 of 38 ( 74 % ) patients compared to 10 of 38 ( 26 % ) placebo patients ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Also , more patients in the Asacol 4 . 8 g / day group showed improvement in overall symptoms .
Maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis : A 6 - month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center study involved 264 patients treated with Asacol 0 . 8 g / day ( n = 90 ) , 1 . 6 g / day ( n = 87 ) , or placebo ( n = 87 ) .
The proportion of patients treated with 0 . 8 g / day who maintained endoscopic remission was not statistically significant compared to placebo .
In the intention to treat ( ITT ) analysis of all 174 patients treated with Asacol 1 . 6 g / day or placebo , Asacol maintained endoscopic remission of ulcerative colitis in 61 of 87 ( 70 . 1 % ) of patients , compared to 42 of 87 ( 48 . 3 % ) of placebo recipients ( p = 0 . 005 ) .
A pooled efficacy analysis of 4 maintenance trials compared Asacol , at doses of 0 . 8 g / day to 2 . 8 g / day , with sulfasalazine , at doses of 2 g / day to 4 g / day ( n = 200 ) .
Treatment success was 59 of 98 ( 59 % ) for Asacol and 70 of 102 ( 69 % ) for sulfasalazine , a non - significant difference .
Study to assess the effect on male fertility : The effect of Asacol ( mesalamine ) on sulfasalazine - induced impairment of male fertility was examined in an open - label study .
Nine patients ( age < 40 years ) with chronic ulcerative colitis in clinical remission on sulfasalazine 2 g / day to 3 g / day were crossed over to an equivalent Asacol dose ( 0 . 8 g / day to 1 . 2 g / day ) for 3 months .
Improvement in sperm count ( p < 0 . 02 ) and morphology ( p < 0 . 02 ) occurred in all cases .
Improvement in sperm motility ( p < 0 . 001 ) occurred in 8 of the 9 patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Asacol tablets are indicated for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis and for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Asacol tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to salicylates or to any of the components of the Asacol tablet .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Patients with pyloric stenosis may have prolonged gastric retention of Asacol tablets which could delay release of mesalamine in the colon .
Exacerbation of the symptoms of colitis has been reported in 3 % of Asacol - treated patients in controlled clinical trials .
This acute reaction , characterized by cramping , abdominal pain , bloody diarrhea , and occasionally by fever , headache , malaise , pruritus , rash , and conjunctivitis , has been reported after the initiation of Asacol tablets as well as other mesalamine products .
Symptoms usually abate when Asacol tablets are discontinued .
Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to Asacol tablets or to other compounds which contain or are converted to mesalamine .
Renal : Renal impairment , including minimal change nephropathy , acute and chronic interstitial nephritis , and , rarely , renal failure has been reported in patients taking Asacol tablets as well as other compounds which contain or are converted to mesalamine .
In animal studies ( rats , dogs ) , the kidney is the principal target organ for toxicity .
At doses of approximately 750 mg / kg to 1000 mg / kg [ 15 to 20 times the administered recommended human dose ( based on a 50 kg person ) on a mg / kg basis and 3 to 4 times on a mg / m2 basis ] , mesalamine causes renal papillary necrosis .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when using Asacol ( or other compounds which contain or are converted to mesalamine or its metabolites ) in patients with known renal dysfunction or history of renal disease .
It is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Asacol tablets and periodically while on Asacol therapy .
Use in Hepatic Impairment : There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre - existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine .
Caution should be exercised when administering Asacol to patients with liver disease .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed to swallow the Asacol tablets whole , taking care not to break , cut , or chew the tablets , because the coating is an important part of the delayed - release formulation .
In 2 % to 3 % of patients in clinical studies , intact or partially intact tablets have been reported in the stool .
If this occurs repeatedly , patients should contact their physician .
Patients with ulcerative colitis should be made aware that ulcerative colitis rarely remits completely , and that the risk of relapse can be substantially reduced by continued administration of Asacol at a maintenance dosage .
Drug Interactions : There are no known drug interactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Dietary mesalamine was not carcinogenic in rats at doses as high as 480 mg / kg / day , or in mice at 2000 mg / kg / day .
These doses are 2 . 4 and 5 . 1 times the maximum recommended human maintenance dose of Asacol of 1 . 6 g / day ( 32 mg / kg / day if 50 kg body weight assumed or 1184 mg / m2 ) , respectively , based on body surface area .
Mesalamine was negative in the Ames assay for mutagenesis , negative for induction of sister chromatid exchanges ( SCE ) and chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells in vitro , and negative for induction of micronuclei ( MN ) in mouse bone marrow polychromatic erythrocytes .
Mesalamine , at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 6 times the recommended human treatment dose on a body surface area basis ) , was found to have no effect on fertility or reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well controlled studies of Asacol use in pregnant women .
Limited published human data on mesalamine show no increase in the overall rate of congenital malformations .
Some data show an increased rate of preterm birth , stillbirth , and low birth weight ; however , these adverse pregnancy outcomes are also associated with active inflammatory bowel disease .
Animal reproduction studies of mesalamine found no evidence of fetal harm .
However , dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) is an inactive ingredient in Asacol ’ s enteric coating , and in animal studies at doses > 190 times the human dose based on body surface area , maternal DBP was associated with external and skeletal malformations and adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Asacol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Mesalamine crosses the placenta .
In prospective and retrospective studies of over 600 women exposed to mesalamine during pregnancy , the observed rate of congenital malformations was not increased above the background rate in the general population .
Some data show an increased rate of preterm birth , stillbirth , and low birth weight , but it is unclear whether this was due to underlying maternal disease , drug exposure , or both , as active inflammatory bowel disease is also associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes .
Reproduction studies with mesalamine were performed during organogenesis in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus .
These mesalamine doses were about 1 . 6 times ( rat ) and 3 . 2 times ( rabbit ) the recommended human dose , based on body surface area .
Dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) is an inactive ingredient in Asacol ’ s enteric coating .
The human daily intake of DBP from the maximum recommended dose of Asacol tablets is about 21 mg .
Published reports in rats show that male rat offspring exposed in utero to DBP ( ≥ 100 mg / kg / day , approximately 39 times the human dose based on body surface area ) , display reproductive system aberrations compatible with disruption of androgenic dependent development .
The clinical significance of this finding in rats is unknown .
At higher dosages ( ≥ 500 mg / kg / day , approximately 194 times the human dose based on body surface area ) , additional effects , including cryptorchidism , hypospadias , atrophy or agenesis of sex accessory organs , testicular injury , reduced daily sperm production , permanent retention of nipples , and decreased anogenital distance are noted .
Female offspring are unaffected .
High doses of DBP , administered to pregnant rats was associated with increased incidences of developmental abnormalities , such as cleft palate ( ≥ 630 mg / kg / day , about 244 times the human dose , based on body surface area ) and skeletal abnormalities ( ≥ 750 mg / kg / day , about 290 times the human dose based on body surface area ) in the offspring .
Nursing Mothers : Mesalamine and its N - acetyl metabolite are excreted into human milk .
In published lactation studies , maternal mesalamine doses from various oral and rectal formulations and products ranged from 500 mg to 3 g daily .
The concentration of mesalamine in milk ranged from non - detectable to 0 . 11 mg / L .
The concentration of the N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid metabolite ranged from 5 to 18 . 1 mg / L .
Based on these concentrations , estimated infant daily doses for an exclusively breastfed infant are 0 to 0 . 017 mg / kg / day of mesalamine and 0 . 75 to 2 . 72 mg / kg / day of N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid .
Caution should be exercised when Asacol is administered to a nursing woman .
Dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) , an inactive ingredient in the enteric coating of Asacol tablets , and its primary metabolite mono - butyl phthalate ( MBP ) are excreted into human milk .
In pregnant rats , DBP causes fetal reproductive system aberrations / malformations in male offspring [ see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ] .
The clinical significance of this has not been determined .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of Asacol tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Asacol did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients should be considered when prescribing Asacol .
Reports from uncontrolled clinical studies and post - marketing reporting systems suggest a higher incidence of blood dyscrasias , i . e . , agranulocytosis , neutropenia , pancytopenia , in subjects receiving Asacol who are 65 years or older .
Caution should be taken to closely monitor blood cell counts during drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken when prescribing this drug therapy .
As stated in the PRECAUTIONS section , it is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Asacol tablets and periodically while on Asacol therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Asacol tablets have been evaluated in 3685 inflammatory bowel disease patients ( most patients with ulcerative colitis ) in controlled and open - label studies .
Adverse events seen in clinical trials with Asacol tablets have generally been mild and reversible .
Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short - and long - term studies and in the post - marketing setting .
In two short - term ( 6 weeks ) placebo - controlled clinical studies involving 245 patients , 155 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets , five ( 3 . 2 % ) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events as compared to two ( 2 . 2 % ) of the placebo patients .
Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included ( each in one patient ) : diarrhea and colitis flare ; dizziness , nausea , joint pain , and headache ; rash , lethargy and constipation ; dry mouth , malaise , lower back discomfort , mild disorientation , mild indigestion and cramping ; headache , nausea , aching , vomiting , muscle cramps , a stuffy head , plugged ears , and fever .
Adverse events occurring in Asacol - treated patients at a frequency of 2 % or greater in the two short - term , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials mentioned above are listed in Table 1 below .
Overall , the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to placebo .
Table 1 Frequency ( % ) of Common Adverse Events Reported in Ulcerative Colitis Patients Treated with Asacol Tablets or Placebo in Short - Term ( 6 - Week ) Double - Blind Controlled Studies Percent of Patients with Adverse Events Placebo Asacol tablets Event ( n = 87 ) ( n = 152 ) Headache 36 35 Abdominal pain 14 18 Eructation 15 16 Pain 8 14 Nausea 15 13 Pharyngitis 9 11 Dizziness 8 8 Asthenia 15 7 Diarrhea 9 7 Back pain 5 7 Fever 8 6 Rash 3 6 Dyspepsia 1 6 Rhinitis 5 5 Arthralgia 3 5 Hypertonia 3 5 Vomiting 2 5 Constipation 1 5 Flatulence 7 3 Dysmenorrhea 3 3 Chest pain 2 3 Chills 2 3 Flu syndrome 2 3 Peripheral edema 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Sweating 1 3 Colitis exacerbation 0 3 Pruritus 0 3 Acne 1 2 Increased cough 1 2 Malaise 1 2 Arthritis 0 2 Conjunctivitis 0 2 Insomnia 0 2 Of these adverse events , only rash showed a consistently higher frequency with increasing Asacol dose in these studies .
In a 6 - month placebo - controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients , 177 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets , six ( 3 . 4 % ) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events , as compared to four ( 4 . 6 % ) of the placebo patients .
Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included ( each in one patient ) : anxiety ; headache ; pruritus ; decreased libido ; rheumatoid arthritis ; and stomatitis and asthenia .
In the 6 - month placebo - controlled maintenance trial , the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to that seen with placebo .
In addition to events listed in Table 1 , the following adverse events occurred in Asacol - treated patients at a frequency of 2 % or greater in this study : abdominal enlargement , anxiety , bronchitis , ear disorder , ear pain , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , infection , joint disorder , migraine , nervousness , paresthesia , rectal disorder , rectal hemorrhage , sinusitis , stool abnormalities , tenesmus , urinary frequency , vasodilation , and vision abnormalities .
In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies , the following adverse events occurred at a frequency of 5 % or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose : asthenia , fever , flu syndrome , pain , abdominal pain , back pain , flatulence , gastrointestinal bleeding , arthralgia , and rhinitis .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been reported in clinical studies , literature reports , and postmarketing use of products which contain ( or have been metabolized to ) mesalamine .
Because many of these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness or potential causal connection to mesalamine : Body as a Whole : Neck pain , facial edema , edema , lupus - like syndrome , drug fever ( rare ) .
Cardiovascular : Pericarditis ( rare ) , myocarditis ( rare ) .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia , pancreatitis , gastritis , increased appetite , cholecystitis , dry mouth , oral ulcers , perforated peptic ulcer ( rare ) , bloody diarrhea .
There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity including , jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis , and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome which included changes in liver enzymes was also reported .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ( rare ) , aplastic anemia ( rare ) , thrombocytopenia , eosinophilia , leukopenia , anemia , lymphadenopathy .
Musculoskeletal : Gout .
Nervous : Depression , somnolence , emotional lability , hyperesthesia , vertigo , confusion , tremor , peripheral neuropathy ( rare ) , transverse myelitis ( rare ) , Guillain - Barré syndrome ( rare ) .
Respiratory / Pulmonary : Eosinophilic pneumonia , interstitial pneumonitis , asthma exacerbation , pleuritis .
Skin : Alopecia , psoriasis ( rare ) , pyoderma gangrenosum ( rare ) , dry skin , erythema nodosum , urticaria .
Special Senses : Eye pain , taste perversion , blurred vision , tinnitus .
Urogenital : Renal Failure ( rare ) , interstitial nephritis , minimal change nephropathy ( See also Renal subsection in PRECAUTIONS ) .
Dysuria , urinary urgency , hematuria , epididymitis , menorrhagia .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Elevated AST ( SGOT ) or ALT ( SGPT ) , elevated alkaline phosphatase , elevated GGT , elevated LDH , elevated bilirubin , elevated serum creatinine and BUN .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCY : Abuse : None reported .
Dependency : Drug dependence has not been reported with chronic administration of mesalamine .
OVERDOSAGE : Two cases of pediatric overdosage have been reported .
A 3 - year - old male who ingested 2 grams of Asacol tablets was treated with ipecac and activated charcoal ; no adverse events occurred .
Another 3 - year - old male , approximately 16 kg , ingested an unknown amount of a maximum of 24 grams of Asacol crushed in solution ( i . e . , uncoated mesalamine ) ; he was treated with orange juice and activated charcoal , and experienced no adverse events .
In dogs , single doses of 6 grams of delayed - release Asacol tablets resulted in renal papillary necrosis but were not fatal .
This was approximately 12 . 5 times the recommended human dose ( based on a dose of 2 . 4 g / day in a 50 kg person ) .
Single oral doses of uncoated mesalamine in mice and rats of 5000 mg / kg and 4595 mg / kg , respectively , or of 3000 mg / kg in cynomolgus monkeys , caused significant lethality .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis : The usual dosage in adults is two 400 mg tablets to be taken three times a day for a total daily dose of 2 . 4 grams for a duration of 6 weeks .
For the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis : The recommended dosage in adults is 1 . 6 grams daily , in divided doses .
Treatment duration in the prospective , well - controlled trial was 6 months .
Two Asacol 400 mg tablets have not been shown to be bioequivalent to one Asacol ® HD ( mesalamine ) delayed - release 800 mg tablet .
HOW SUPPLIED : Asacol ® ( mesalamine ) Delayed - Release Tablets are available as red - brown , capsule - shaped tablets containing 400 mg mesalamine and imprinted “ 0752 DR ” in black .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0823 - 1 400 mg 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack red - brown 0430 - 0752 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Manufactured by : Warner Chilcott Deutschland GmbH D - 64331 Weiterstadt Germany Marketed by : Warner Chilcott ( US ) , LLC Rockaway , NJ 07866 1 - 800 - 521 - 8813 Under license from Medeva Pharma Suisse AG ( registered trademark owner ) .
U . S . Patent Nos . 5 , 541 , 170 and 5 , 541 , 171 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Warner Chilcott at 1 - 800 - 521 - 8813 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53808 - 0823 - 1 Asacol ® ( mesalamine ) delayed - release tablets 400 mg per tablet Not Bioequivalent to Asacol HD Rx Only 30 Tablets asacol . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
