Active ingredient Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , cyclohexasiloxane , glycerin , titanium dioxide , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , beeswax , myristyl myristate , stearic acid , palmitic acid , polyglyceryl - 10 pentastearate , behenyl alcohol , sodium steroyl lactylate , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , butylene glycol , carbomer , polysorbate 20 , palmitoyl oligopeptide , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , hydrolyzed soy protein , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , fragrance , triethanolamine , glycine soja ( soybean ) protein , xanthan gum , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A ) , phenoxyethanol , PEG - 20 stearate , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , phenethyl alcohol , alcohol denat . , chlorphenesin Package / Label Principal Display Panel America ' s Choice advanced firming & anti - wrinkle moisturizer with encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A & Matrixyl ™ & Sepilift ™ * compare to L ’ Oreal ® advanced revitalift ® complete day cream SPF18 ingredients DAY CREAM BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 18 SUNSCREEN NET WT 1 . 7 OZ ( 48 g ) TRIPLE - ACTION TECHNOLOGY Advanced Anti - Wrinkle Action : Encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A and Sepilift ™ will hasten skin renewal reducing the amount of fine lines and wrinkles and their depth .
Results can be seen in just two weeks .
The newtechnology will continually act to help fight the signs of aging .
Innovative Firming ; Matrixyl ™ has proven to show renewed elastin and collagen fibers * .
Skin ’ s surface is remodeled , becoming more resilient and toned .
Continuous Moisturization & Skin Protection ; Provides 24 hour moisturization to soothe dry skin .
Broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF18 protects the skin and prevents damage by UV exposure .
Directions for Use ; Every day , smooth gently onto face and neck until thoroughly absorbed .
Use in the AM , alone or under makeup .
Results ; Skin ’ s elasticity is improved .
Visible reduction of wrinkles and skin looks smoother , Firmer skin Matrixyl ™ is a registered trademark owned by Sederma .
Sepilift ™ is a registered trademark owned by Seppic .
* In - vitro testing FIRMING & ANTI - WRINKLE ; AN INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY Now experience the advanced actions against the signs of skin aging .
New Firming & Anti - Wrinkle Day Cream Broad Spectrum SPF18 Sunscreen , with effective encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A , Matrixyl ™ & Sepilift ™ will increase cell turnover , reduce wrinkles , firm the skin , and provide 24 hour moisturization FORMULA ESSENTIALS • • UV SPF18 sunscreen • • Non - Comedogenic • • Dermatologist tested for gentleness • • Non - greasy Manufactured in Israel 37815 AD C1 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by L ’ Oreal , owner of the registered trademark Revitalift ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
