DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in CANASA ® 1000 mg suppositories is mesalamine , also known as mesalazine or 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( 5 - ASA ) .
Chemically , mesalamine is 5 - amino - 2 - hydroxybenzoic acid , and is classified as an anti - inflammatory drug .
The empirical formula is C7H7NO3 , representing a molecular weight of 153 . 14 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each CANASA ® rectal suppository contains 1000 mg of mesalamine ( USP ) in a base of Hard Fat , NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sulfasalazine has been used in the treatment of ulcerative colitis for over 55 years .
It is split by bacterial action in the colon into sulfapyridine ( SP ) and mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) .
It is thought that the mesalamine component only is therapeutically active in ulcerative colitis .
Mechanism of ActionThe mechanism of action of mesalamine ( and sulfasalazine ) is not fully understood , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Although the pathology of inflammatory bowel disease is uncertain , both prostaglandins and leukotrienes have been implicated as mediators of mucosal injury and inflammation .
Recently , however , the role of mesalamine as a free radical scavenger or inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) has also been postulated .
PharmacokineticsAbsorption : Mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) administered as a rectal suppository is variably absorbed .
In patients with ulcerative colitis treated with mesalamine 500 mg rectal suppositories , administered once every eight hours for six days , the mean mesalamine peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) was 353 ng / mL ( CV = 55 % ) following the initial dose and 361 ng / mL ( CV = 67 % ) at steady state .
The mean minimum steady state plasma concentration ( Cmin ) was 89 ng / mL ( CV = 89 % ) .
Absorbed mesalamine does not accumulate in the plasma .
Distribution : Mesalamine administered as rectal suppositories distributes in rectal tissue to some extent .
In patients with ulcerative proctitis treated with CANASA ® ( mesalamine , USP ) 1000 mg rectal suppositories , rectal tissue concentrations for 5 - ASA and N - acetyl - 5 - ASA have not been rigorously quantified .
Metabolism : Mesalamine is extensively metabolized , mainly to N - acetyl - 5 - ASA .
The site of metabolism has not been elucidated .
In patients with ulcerative colitis treated with one 500 mg mesalamine rectal suppository every eight hours for six days , peak concentration ( Cmax ) of N - acetyl - 5 - ASA ranged from 467 ng / mL to 1399 ng / mL following the initial dose and from 193 ng / mL to 1304 ng / mL at steady state .
Elimination : Mesalamine is eliminated from plasma mainly by urinary excretion , predominantly as N - acetyl - 5 - ASA .
In patients with ulcerative proctitis treated with one mesalamine 500 mg rectal suppository every eight hours for six days , ≤ 12 % of the dose was eliminated in urine as unchanged 5 - ASA and 8 - 77 % as N - acetyl - 5 - ASA following the initial dose .
At steady state , ≤ 11 % of the dose was eliminated as unchanged 5 - ASA and 3 - 35 % as N - acetyl - 5 - ASA .
The mean elimination half - life was five hours ( CV = 73 % ) for 5 - ASA and six hours ( CV = 63 % ) for N - acetyl - 5 - ASA following the initial dose .
At steady state , the mean elimination half - life was seven hours for both 5 - ASA and N - acetyl - 5 - ASA ( CV = 102 % for 5 - ASA and 82 % for N - acetyl - 5 - ASA ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions : The potential for interactions between mesalamine , administered as 1000 mg rectal suppositories , and other drugs has not been studied .
Special Populations ( Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment ) : The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on elimination of mesalamine in ulcerative proctitis patients treated with mesalamine 1000 mg suppositories has not been studied .
Preclinical ToxicologyPreclinical studies of mesalamine were conducted in rats , mice , rabbits and dogs , and kidney was the main target organ of toxicity .
In rats , adverse renal effects were observed at a single oral dose of 600 mg / kg ( about 3 . 2 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and at IV doses of > 214 mg / kg ( about 1 . 2 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) .
In a 13 - week oral gavage toxicity study in rats , papillary necrosis and / or multifocal tubular injury were observed in males receiving 160 mg / kg ( about 0 . 86 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and in both males and females at 640 mg / kg ( about 3 . 5 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) .
In a combined 52 - week toxicity and 127 - week carcinogenicity study in rats , degeneration of the kidneys and hyalinization of basement membranes and Bowman ’ s capsule were observed at oral doses of 100 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 54 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and above .
In a 14 - day rectal toxicity study of mesalamine suppositories in rabbits , intra - rectal doses up to 800 mg / kg ( about 8 . 6 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) was not associated with any adverse effects .
In a six - month oral toxicity study in dogs , doses of 80 mg / kg ( about 1 . 4 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and higher caused renal pathology similar to that described for the rat .
In a rectal toxicity study of mesalamine suppositories in dogs , a dose of 166 . 6 mg / kg ( about 3 . 0 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) produced chronic nephritis and pyelitis .
In the 12 - month eye toxicity study in dogs , Keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( KCS ) occurred at oral doses of 40 mg / kg ( about 0 . 72 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and above .
CLINICAL STUDIES Two double - blind placebo - controlled multicenter studies were conducted in North America in patients with mild to moderate active ulcerative proctitis .
The primary measures of efficacy were the same in all trials ( clinical disease activity index , sigmoidoscopic and histologic evaluations ) .
The main difference between the studies was dosage regimen : 500 mg three times daily ( 1 . 5 g / d ) in Study 1 ; and 500 mg twice daily ( 1 . 0 g / d ) in Study 2 .
A total of 173 patients were studied ( Study 1 , N = 79 ; Study 2 , N = 94 ) .
Eighty - nine ( 89 ) patients received mesalamine suppositories , and eighty - four ( 84 ) patients received placebo suppositories .
Patients were evaluated clinically and sigmoidoscopically after three and six weeks of suppository treatment .
In Study No . 1 patients were 17 to 73 years of age ( mean = 39 yrs ) , 57 % were female , and 97 % were white .
Patients had an average extent of proctitis ( upper disease boundary ) of 10 . 8 cm .
Eighty - four percent ( 84 % ) of the study patients had multiple prior episodes of proctitis .
In Study No . 2 , patients were 21 to 72 years of age ( mean = 39 yrs ) , 62 % were female , and 96 % were white .
Patients had an average extent of proctitis ( upper disease boundary ) of 10 . 3 cm .
Seventy - eight percent ( 78 % ) of the study patients had multiple prior episodes of proctitis .
Compared to placebo , mesalamine suppository treatment was statistically ( p less than 0 . 01 ) superior to placebo in all trials with respect to improvement in stool frequency , rectal bleeding , mucosal appearance , disease severity , and overall disease activity after three and six weeks of treatment .
Daily diary records indicated significant improvement in rectal bleeding in the first week of therapy while tenesmus and diarrhea improved significantly within two weeks .
Investigators rated patients receiving mesalamine much improved compared to patients receiving placebo ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
The effectiveness of mesalamine suppositories was statistically significant irrespective of sex , extent of proctitis , duration of current episode or duration of disease .
A multicenter , open - label , randomized , parallel group study in ninety - nine ( 99 ) patients diagnosed with mild to moderate ulcerative proctitis compared the clinical efficacy of the CANASA ® 1000 mg suppository to that of the CANASA ® 500 mg suppository .
The primary measures of efficacy included clinical disease activity index , sigmoidoscopic and histologic evaluations .
Patients were randomized to one of two treatment groups , with a dosage regimen of one 500 mg mesalamine suppository BID , morning and HS , or one 1000 mg mesalamine suppository HS for 6 weeks .
Patients were evaluated clinically and sigmoidoscopically after three and six weeks of suppository treatment .
Of the eighty - one ( 81 ) patients in the Per Protocol population , forty - six ( 46 ) patients received mesalamine 500 mg suppositories BID , and thirty - five ( 35 ) patients received mesalamine 1000 mg suppositories HS .
The efficacy of the 1000 mg HS treatment was not statistically or clinically different after 6 weeks from the 500 mg BID treatment , and both were effective in the treatment of ulcerative proctitis .
Both treatments resulted in a significant decrease between Baseline and 6 weeks in the Disease Activity Index ( DAI ) , a composite index reflecting rectal bleeding , stool frequency , mucosal appearance at endoscopy , and a global assessment of disease .
In the 500 mg BID group , the mean DAI value decreased from 6 . 6 to 1 . 6 , and in the 1000 mg HS group , the mean DAI value decreased from 6 . 2 to 1 . 3 over 6 weeks of treatment , representing a decrease of greater than 75 % in both groups .
Seventy - eight percent ( 78 % ; 36 / 46 ) of patients in the 500 mg BID group and 86 % ( 30 / 35 ) of the patients in the 1000 mg HS group achieved a substantial improvement in symptoms ( defined as a DAI score of less than 3 ) after 6 weeks of treatment .
These patients regained normal daily stools , lost their rectal bleeding , and lost signs of inflammation at endoscopic visualization .
The time to onset of response to the study drug was within 3 weeks of initiation of therapy in each treatment group , but further improvement was observed between 3 and 6 weeks of treatment .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CANASA ® 1000 mg Suppositories are indicated for the treatment of active ulcerative proctitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CANASA ® 1000 mg Suppositories are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to mesalamine ( 5 - aminosalicylic acid ) or to the suppository vehicle [ saturated vegetable fatty acid esters ( Hard Fat , NF ) ] , or to salicylates ( including aspirin ) .
PRECAUTIONS Mesalamine has been implicated in the production of an acute intolerance syndrome characterized by cramping , acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea , sometimes fever , headache and a rash ; in such cases prompt withdrawal is required .
The patient ’ s history of sulfasalazine intolerance , if any , should be re - evaluated .
If a rechallenge is performed later in order to validate the hypersensitivity , it should be carried out under close supervision and only if clearly needed , giving consideration to reduced dosage .
In the literature , one patient previously sensitive to sulfasalazine was rechallenged with 400 mg oral mesalamine ; within eight hours she experienced headache , fever , intensive abdominal colic , profuse diarrhea and was readmitted as an emergency .
She responded poorly to steroid therapy and two weeks later a pancolectomy was required .
The possibility of increased absorption of mesalamine and concomitant renal tubular damage as noted in the preclinical studies must be kept in mind .
Patients on CANASA ® 1000 mg , especially those on concurrent oral products which contain or release mesalamine and those with pre - existing renal disease , should be carefully monitored with urinalysis , BUN and creatinine testing .
In a clinical trial most patients who were hypersensitive to sulfasalazine were able to take mesalamine enemas without evidence of any allergic reaction .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when mesalamine is initially used in patients known to be allergic to sulfasalazine .
These patients should be instructed to discontinue therapy if signs of rash or fever become apparent .
A small proportion of patients have developed pancolitis while using mesalamine .
However , extension of upper disease boundary and / or flare - ups occurred less often in the mesalamine - treated group than in the placebo - treated group .
Rare instances of pericarditis have been reported with mesalamine containing products including sulfasalazine .
Cases of pericarditis have also been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease .
In the cases reported there have been positive rechallenges with mesalamine or mesalamine containing products .
In one of these cases , however , a second rechallenge with sulfasalazine was negative throughout a 2 month follow - up .
Chest pain or dyspnea in patients treated with mesalamine should be investigated with this information in mind .
Discontinuation of CANASA ® suppositories may be warranted in some cases , but rechallenge with mesalamine can be performed under careful clinical observation should the continued therapeutic need for mesalamine be present .
There have been two reports in the literature of additional serious adverse events : one patient who developed leukopenia and thrombocytopenia after seven months of treatment with one 500 mg suppository nightly , and one patient with rash and fever which was a similar reaction to sulfasalazine .
Information for Patients : See patient information printed at the end of this insert .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityMesalamine caused no increase in the incidence of neoplastic lesions over controls in a two - year study of Wistar rats fed up to 320 mg / kg / day of mesalamine admixed with diet ( about 1 . 7 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) .
Mesalamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell ( TK ± ) forward mutation test , or the mouse micronucleus test .
No effects on fertility or reproductive performance of the male and female rats were observed at oral mesalamine doses up to 320 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 7 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) .
The oligospermia and infertility in men associated with sulfasalazine have not been reported with mesalamine .
PregnancyTeratogenic Effects , Pregnancy Category BTeratology studies have been performed in rats at oral doses up to 320 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 7 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and in rabbits at oral doses up to 495 mg / kg / day ( about 5 . 4 times the recommended human intra - rectal dose , based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to mesalamine .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether mesalamine or its metabolite ( s ) are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when CANASA ® 1000 mg suppositories are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of CANASA ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Mesalamine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse ExperienceThe most frequent adverse reactions observed in the double - blind , placebo - controlled trials are summarized in the Table below .
ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 1 % OF MESALAMINE SUPPOSITORY TREATED PATIENTS ( COMPARISON TO PLACEBO ) Symptom Mesalamine ( n = 177 ) Placebo ( n = 84 ) N % N % Dizziness 5 3 . 0 2 2 . 4 Rectal Pain 3 1 . 8 0 0 . 0 Fever 2 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 Rash 2 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 Acne 2 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 Colitis 2 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 In the multicenter , open - label , randomized , parallel group study comparing the CANASA ® 1000 mg suppository ( HS ) to that of the CANASA ® 500 mg suppository ( BID ) , there were no differences between the two treatment groups in the adverse event profile .
The most frequent AEs were headache ( 14 . 4 % ) , flatulence ( 5 . 2 % ) , abdominal pain ( 5 . 2 % ) , diarrhea ( 3 . 1 % ) , and nausea ( 3 . 1 % ) .
Three ( 3 ) patients had to discontinue medication because of a treatment emergent AE ; one of these AEs ( headache ) was deemed possibly related to study medication .
In addition to the events observed in the clinical trials , the following adverse events have been associated with mesalamine containing products : nephrotoxicity , pancreatitis , fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes .
Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well .
Hair LossMild hair loss characterized by “ more hair in the comb ” but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in seven of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo - treated patients .
In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine .
Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no documented reports of serious toxicity in man resulting from massive overdosing with mesalamine .
Under ordinary circumstances , mesalamine absorption from the colon is limited .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage of CANASA ® ( mesalamine , USP ) 1000 mg suppositories is one rectal suppository 1 time daily at bedtime .
The suppository should be retained for one to three hours or longer , if possible , to achieve the maximum benefit .
While the effect of CANASA ® suppositories may be seen within three to twenty - one days , the usual course of therapy would be from three to six weeks depending on symptoms and sigmoidoscopic findings .
Studies have suggested that CANASA ® suppositories will delay relapse after the six - week short - term treatment .
Patient Instructions : NOTE : CANASA ® suppositories will cause staining of direct contact surfaces , including but not limited to fabrics , flooring , painted surfaces , marble , granite , vinyl , and enamel .
• Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories .
• Hold suppository upright and carefully remove the plastic wrapper .
• Avoid excessive handling of suppository , which is designed to melt at body temperature .
• Insert suppository completely into rectum with gentle pressure , pointed end first .
• A small amount of lubricating gel may be used on the tip of the suppository to assist insertion .
HOW SUPPLIED CANASA ® ( Mesalamine , USP ) 1000 mg Suppositories : CANASA ® 1000 mg Suppositories for rectal administration are available as bullet shaped , light tan suppositories containing 1000 mg mesalamine supplied in boxes of 30 plastic wrapped suppositories ( NDC 54868 - 6147 - 0 ) .
Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , do not freeze .
Keep away from direct heat , light or humidity .
Rx only Axcan Pharma US , Inc .
Birmingham , AL 35242 Date : May 2008 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient InformationCANASA ® Rectal Suppositories ( Mesalamine , USP ) 1000 mg Read this information carefully before you begin treatment .
Also , read the information you get whenever you get more medicine .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about this medicine , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is CANASA ® ?
CANASA ® ( can - AH - sah ) is a medicine used to treat ulcerative proctitis ( ulcerative rectal colitis ) .
CANASA ® works inside your rectum ( lower intestine ) to help reduce bleeding , mucous and bloody diarrhea caused by inflammation ( swelling and soreness ) of the rectal area .
You use CANASA ® by inserting it into your rectum .
Who should not use CANASA ® ?
Do not use CANASA ® if you are allergic to the active ingredient mesalamine ( also found in drugs such as Rowasa , Asacol , Pentasa , Azulfidine , and Dipentum ) , if you are allergic to the inactive ingredients , or if you have had any unusual reaction to the ingredients .
Tell your doctor if you : • Have kidney problems .
Using CANASA ® may make them worse .
• Have had inflamed pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
• Are pregnant .
You and your doctor will decide if you should use CANASA ® .
• Have ever had pericarditis ( inflamed sac around your heart ) .
• Are allergic to sulfasalazine .
You may need to watch for signs of an allergic reaction to CANASA ® .
• Are allergic to aspirin .
• Are allergic to other things , such as foods , preservatives , or dyes .
How should I use CANASA ® ?
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about how often to use CANASA ® and how long to use it .
For the 1000 mg suppository , the usual dose is one suppository at bedtime for 3 - 6 weeks .
We do not know if CANASA ® will work for children or is safe for them .
Follow these steps to use CANASA ® : • For best results , empty your rectum ( have a bowel movement ) just before using CANASA ® .
• Detach one CANASA ® suppository from the strip of suppositories .
• Hold the suppository upright and carefully peel open the plastic at the pre - cut line to take out the suppository .
• Insert the suppository with the pointed end first completely into your rectum , using gentle pressure .
• For best results , keep the suppository in your rectum for 3 hours or longer , if possible .
If you have trouble inserting CANASA ® , you may put a little bit of lubricating gel on the suppository .
Do not handle the suppository too much , since it may begin to melt from the heat from your hands and body .
If you miss a dose of CANASA ® , use it as soon as possible , unless it is almost time for next dose .
Do not use two CANASA ® suppositories at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
Keep using CANASA ® as long as your doctor tells you to use it , even if you feel better .
CANASA ® can cause stains on things it touches .
Therefore keep it away from clothing and other fabrics , flooring , painted surfaces , marble , granite , plastics , andenamel .
Be careful since CANASA ® may stain clothing .
What should I avoid while taking CANASA ® ?
Do not breast feed while using CANASA ® .
We do not know if CANASA ® can pass through the milk and harm the baby .
Tell your doctor if you become pregnant while using CANASA ® .
What are the possible side effects of CANASA ® ?
• The most common side effects of CANASA ® are : headache , gas or flatulence , and diarrhea .
These events also occurred when patients were given an inactive suppository .
• Less common , but possibly serious side effects include a reaction to the medicine ( acute intolerance syndrome ) that includes cramps , sharp abdominal ( stomach area ) pain , bloody diarrhea , and sometimes fever , headache and rash .
Stop use and tell your doctor right away if you get any of these symptoms .
• In rare cases , the sac around the heart may become inflamed ( pericarditis ) .
Tell your doctor right away if you develop chest pain or shortness of breath , which are signs of this problem .
• In rare cases , patients using CANASA ® develop worsening colitis ( pancolitis ) .
• A very few patients using CANASA ® may have mild hair loss .
• Other side effects not listed above may also occur in some patients .
If you notice any other side effects , check with your doctor or pharmacist .
How should I store CANASA ® ?
Store CANASA ® below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , do not freeze it .
Keep it away from direct heat , light , or humidity .
Keep it out of the reach of children .
General advice about prescription medicinesMedicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use CANASA ® for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CANASA ® to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about CANASA ® .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about CANASA ® that is written for health professionals .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CANASA ® ( Mesalamine , USP ) 1000 mg Suppositories [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
