HOMATROPINE HYDROBROMIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION , USP Rx only Established name : Homatropine Hydrobromide Chemical Name : Benzeneacetic acid , ɑ - hydroxy - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] - oct - 3 - yl ester , hydrobromide , endo - ( ± ) - .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains : Active : Homatropine Hydrobromide 5 . 0 % .
Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 005 % .
Inactive : Boric Acid , Edetate Disodium , Potassium Chloride , Water for Injection .
Boric Acid or Sodium Carbonate may be added to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE : A moderately long - acting mydriatic and cycloplegic for cycloplegic refraction and in the treatment of inflammatory conditions of the uveal tract .
For pre and postoperative states when mydriasis is required .
Use as an optical aid in some cases of axial lens opacities .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For refraction , instill one or two drops topically in the eye ( s ) .
May be repeated in five or ten minutes if necessary .
For uveitis , instill one or two drops topically up to every three to four hours .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require larger doses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Contraindicated in persons with primary glaucoma or a tendency toward glaucoma , e . g . narrow anterior chamber angle , and in those persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNING : For topical use only – not for injection .
Risk - benefit should be considered when the following medical problems exist : keratoconus ( Homatropine may produce fixed dilated pupil ) ; Down ’ s syndrome , children with brain damage and the elderly ( increased susceptibility ) .
In infants and small children , use with extreme caution .
Excessive use in pediatric patients or certain individuals with a history of susceptibility to belladonna alkaloids may produce systemic symptoms of homatropine poisoning ( see overdose section ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General .
To avoid excessive systemic absorption , the lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after installation .
To avoid inducing angle closure glaucoma , an estimation of the depth of the angle of the anterior chamber should be made .
Excessive topical use of this drug can potentially lead to a confusional state characterized by delirium , agitation , and rarely coma .
This state is more apt to occur in the pediatric and geriatric age groups .
The specific anti - dote for this systemic anticholinergic syndrome is injectable physostigmine salicylate .
Information to Patients .
Patient should be advised not to drive or engage in other hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patient may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ’ s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ’ s hands following administration .
Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient symptoms of stinging and burning may occur .
Prolonged use may produce local irritation characterized by follicular conjunctivitis , vascular congestion , edema , exudates , and an eczematoid dermatitis .
Thirst or dryness of mouth , eye irritation not present before therapy , or increased sensitivity of eyes to light may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Altaire Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at ( 800 ) - 258 - 2471 .
Pregnancy .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with homatropine hydrobromide .
It is also not known whether homatropine hydrobromide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Homatropine Hydrobromide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when homatropine hydrobromide is administered to a nursing woman Pediatric Use : Homatropine should not be used during the first three months of life due to a possible association between the cycloplegia produced and the development of amblyopia .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
OVERDOSAGE : When signs and symptoms of homatropine toxicity develop ( see adverse reaction section ) , physostigmine should be administered parenterally ( for dosage refer to Goodman & Gilman or other pharmacology reference ) .
In infants and pediatric patients , the body surface must be kept moist .
DESCRIPTION : Homatropine hydrobromide is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the accommodative muscle of the ciliary body to cholinergic stimulation , producing pupillary dilation ( mydriasis ) and paralysis of accommodation ( cycloplegia ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There have been no long - term studies done using homatropine hydrobromide in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
HOW SUPPLIED : 5 mL size in a white plastic bottle 5 mL - NDC 59390 - 192 - 05 Storage : Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Caution : Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Mfd .
by : Altaire Pharmaceuticals , Inc Aquebogue , NY 11931 R05 / 13 F # 16545 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 59390 - 192 - 05 Homatropaire Homatropine Hydrobromide Ophthalmic Solution , USP 5 % 5 mL - Sterile Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
