Rx Only P5519 - 1 01 / 08 DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic oral antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each benzonatate capsule contains benzonatate , USP , 100 mg or 200 mg .
Benzonatate capsules , USP also contain gelatin , glycerin , methyl / propyl paraben blend , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate capsules , USP are indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
WARNINGS Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
Isolated instances of bizarre behavior , including mental confusion and visual hallucinations , have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate capsules , USP in combination with other prescribed drugs .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - amino - benzoic acid class ( e . g . , procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for Patients Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
Therefore , the capsules should be swallowed without chewing .
Usage in Pregnancy – Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate capsules , USP .
It is also not known whether benzonatate capsules , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate capsules , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzonatate capsules , USP are administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate capsules , USP .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential adverse reactions to benzonatate capsules , USP may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation , nausea , GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Rare instances of deliberate or accidental overdose have resulted in death .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose may result in death .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Treatment Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag reflexes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturate given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children over 10 : Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsule t . i . d . as required .
If necessary , up to 600 mg daily may be given .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzonatate capsules , USP 100 mg are round , white soft gelatin capsules , imprinted in black ink “ E , ” packaged as follows : NDC 58177 - 091 - 04 bottle of 100 capsules NDC 58177 - 091 - 08 bottle of 500 capsules NDC 58177 - 091 - 11 unit dose package of 100 capsules ( 10 capsules per blister card ) Benzonatate capsules , USP 200 mg are oval , white soft gelatin capsules , imprinted in black ink “ E2 , ” packaged as follows : NDC 58177 - 092 - 04 bottle of 100 capsules Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by AccuCaps Windsor , Ontario , Canada for ETHEX Corporation St . Louis , MO 63044 USA P5519 - 1 01 / 08
