1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZALTRAP , in combination with fluorouracil , leucovorin , irinotecan - ( FOLFIRI ) , is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer ( mCRC ) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin - containing regimen .
ZALTRAP , a vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor , in combination with fluorouracil , leucovorin , irinotecan ( FOLFIRI ) , is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin - containing regimen .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 4 mg per kg as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour every 2 weeks .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose and Schedule The recommended dosage of ZALTRAP is 4 mg per kg of actual body weight as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour every two weeks in combination with FOLFIRI until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Administer ZALTRAP prior to any component of the FOLFIRI regimen on the day of treatment .
Refer to prescribing information for irinotecan , fluorouracil , and leucovorin for the recommended dosage and dosage modifications for these drugs .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue ZALTRAP for : • Severe hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Gastrointestinal perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Impaired wound healing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fistula formation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Arterial thromboembolic events ( ATE ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Nephrotic syndrome or thrombotic microangiopathy ( TMA ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Temporarily suspend ZALTRAP : • At least 4 weeks prior to elective surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• For uncontrolled hypertension until controlled .
Upon resumption , permanently reduce the ZALTRAP dose to 2 mg per kg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• For proteinuria of 2 grams per 24 hours or more .
Resume when proteinuria is less than 2 grams per 24 hours .
For recurrent proteinuria , suspend ZALTRAP until proteinuria is less than 2 grams per 24 hours and then permanently reduce the ZALTRAP dose to 2 mg per kg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration Preparation Inspect vials visually prior to use .
ZALTRAP is a clear , colorless to pale yellow solution .
Do not use vial if the solution is discolored or cloudy or if the solution contains particles .
Withdraw the prescribed dose of ZALTRAP and dilute in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP to achieve a final concentration of 0 . 6 mg / mL to 8 mg / mL .
Do not re - enter the vial after the initial puncture .
Discard any unused portion left in the vial .
Use polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) infusion bags containing bis ( 2 - ethylhexyl ) phthalate ( DEHP ) or polyolefin infusion bags .
Store diluted ZALTRAP refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours or at controlled room temperature of 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 8 hours .
Discard any unused portion left in the infusion bag .
Administration Administer the diluted ZALTRAP solution as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour through a 0 . 2 - micron polyethersulfone filter .
Do not use filters made of polyvinylidene fluoride ( PVDF ) or nylon .
Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus .
Do not combine ZALTRAP with other drugs in the same infusion bag or intravenous line .
Administer ZALTRAP using an infusion set made of one of the following materials : • PVC containing DEHP • DEHP free PVC containing trioctyl - trimellitate ( TOTM ) • polypropylene • polyethylene lined PVC • polyurethane 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ZALTRAP is a clear , colorless to pale - yellow solution available as : • Injection : 100 mg / 4 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial • Injection : 200 mg / 8 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial Injection : 100 mg / 4 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) and 200 mg / 8 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hemorrhage : Severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage , including gastrointestinal ( GI ) hemorrhage , has been reported in patients who have received ZALTRAP .
Do not administer ZALTRAP to patients with severe hemorrhage .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Perforation : Discontinue ZALTRAP therapy in patients who experience GI perforation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Impaired Wound Healing : Withhold ZALTRAP for at least 4 weeks prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer for at least 4 weeks following major surgery and until wounds have adequately healed .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients with impaired wound healing .
The safety of resumption of ZALTRAP after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
( 5 . 3 ) • Fistula Formation : Discontinue ZALTRAP if fistula occurs .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) • Hypertension : Monitor blood pressure and treat hypertension .
Temporarily suspend ZALTRAP if hypertension is not controlled .
Discontinue ZALTRAP if hypertensive crisis develops .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) • Arterial Thromboembolic Events ( ATE ) : Discontinue ZALTRAP if ATE develops .
( 5 . 6 ) • Proteinuria : Monitor urine protein .
Suspend ZALTRAP for proteinuria of 2 grams per 24 hours or more .
Discontinue ZALTRAP if nephrotic syndrome or thrombotic microangiopathy ( TMA ) develops .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 7 ) • Neutropenia and Neutropenic Complications : Delay administration of ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI until neutrophil count is 1 . 5 × 109 / L or higher .
( 5 . 8 ) • Diarrhea and Dehydration : Incidence of severe diarrhea and dehydration is increased .
Monitor elderly patients more closely .
( 5 . 9 , 8 . 5 ) • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome : Discontinue ZALTRAP .
( 5 . 10 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of potential risk to fetus and need for use of effective contraception .
( 5 . 11 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hemorrhage Patients treated with ZALTRAP have an increased risk of hemorrhage , including severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhagic events .
In patients with mCRC , bleeding / hemorrhage ( all grades ) was reported in 38 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 19 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 hemorrhagic events , including gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hematuria , and post - procedural hemorrhage , were reported in 3 % of patients receiving ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared with 1 % of patients receiving placebo / FOLFIRI .
Severe intracranial hemorrhage and pulmonary hemorrhage / hemoptysis including fatal events have also occurred in patients receiving ZALTRAP .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding .
Do not initiate ZALTRAP in patients with severe hemorrhage .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients who develop severe hemorrhage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Perforation Gastrointestinal ( GI ) perforation including fatal GI perforation can occur in patients receiving ZALTRAP .
Across three placebo - controlled clinical studies ( colorectal , pancreatic , and lung cancer populations ) , the incidence of GI perforation ( all grades ) was 0 . 8 % for patients treated with ZALTRAP and 0 . 3 % for patients treated with placebo .
Grade 3 – 4 GI perforation occurred in 0 . 8 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP and 0 . 2 % of patients treated with placebo .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of GI perforation .
Discontinue ZALTRAP therapy in patients who experience GI perforation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Impaired Wound Healing Grade 3 impaired wound healing was reported in 2 patients ( 0 . 3 % ) treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI regimen .
Withhold ZALTRAP for at least 4 weeks prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer ZALTRAP for at least 4 weeks after major surgery and until wounds have adequately healed .
For minor surgery such as central venous access port placement , biopsy , and tooth extraction , ZALTRAP may be initiated / resumed once the surgical wound is fully healed .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients with impaired wound healing .
The safety of resumption of ZALTRAP after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Fistula Formation Fistula formation involving gastrointestinal and non - gastrointestinal sites occurs at a higher incidence in patients treated with ZALTRAP .
In patients with mCRC , fistulas ( anal , enterovesical , enterocutaneous , colovaginal , intestinal sites ) were reported in 9 of 611 patients ( 1 . 5 % ) treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI regimen and 3 of 605 patients ( 0 . 5 % ) treated with placebo / FOLFIRI regimen .
Grade 3 GI fistula formation occurred in 2 patients treated with ZALTRAP ( 0 . 3 % ) and in 1 patient treated with placebo ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Discontinue ZALTRAP therapy in patients who develop fistula [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypertension ZALTRAP increases the risk of Grade 3 – 4 hypertension .
There is no clinical trial experience administering ZALTRAP to patients with NYHA class III or IV heart failure .
In patients with mCRC , Grade 3 hypertension ( defined as requiring adjustment in existing antihypertensive therapy or treatment with more than one drug ) was reported in 1 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI and 19 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
Grade 4 hypertension ( hypertensive crisis ) was reported in 1 patient ( 0 . 2 % ) treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
Among those patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI developing Grade 3 – 4 hypertension , 54 % had onset during the first two cycles of treatment .
Monitor blood pressure every two weeks or more frequently as clinically indicated during treatment with ZALTRAP .
Treat with appropriate antihypertensive therapy and continue monitoring blood pressure regularly .
Temporarily suspend ZALTRAP in patients with uncontrolled hypertension until controlled and permanently reduce the ZALTRAP dose to 2 mg per kg for subsequent cycles .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients with hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Arterial Thromboembolic Events ATE , including transient ischemic attack , cerebrovascular accident , and angina pectoris , occurred more frequently in patients who have received ZALTRAP .
In patients with mCRC , ATE was reported in 2 . 6 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and 1 . 7 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 events occurred in 11 patients ( 1 . 8 % ) treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and 4 patients ( 0 . 7 % ) treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients who experience an ATE [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Proteinuria Severe proteinuria , nephrotic syndrome , and thrombotic microangiopathy ( TMA ) occurred more frequently in patients treated with ZALTRAP .
In patients with mCRC , proteinuria was reported in 62 % patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 41 % patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 proteinuria occurred in 8 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 1 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Nephrotic syndrome occurred in 2 patients ( 0 . 5 % ) treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to none of the patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
TMA was reported in 3 of 2258 patients with cancer enrolled across completed studies .
Monitor proteinuria by urine dipstick analysis and / or urinary protein creatinine ratio ( UPCR ) for the development or worsening of proteinuria during ZALTRAP therapy .
Patients with a dipstick of ≥ 2 + for protein or a UPCR greater than 1 should undergo a 24 - hour urine collection .
Suspend ZALTRAP administration for proteinuria 2 grams per 24 hours or more , and resume when proteinuria is less than 2 grams per 24 hours .
If recurrent , suspend until proteinuria is less than 2 grams per 24 hours and then permanently reduce the ZALTRAP dose to 2 mg per kg .
Discontinue ZALTRAP in patients who develop nephrotic syndrome or TMA [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Neutropenia and Neutropenic Complications A higher incidence of neutropenic complications ( febrile neutropenia and neutropenic infection ) occurred in patients receiving ZALTRAP .
In patients with mCRC , Grade 3 – 4 neutropenia occurred in 37 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 30 % patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Grade 3 – 4 febrile neutropenia occurred in 4 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 2 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 neutropenic infection / sepsis occurred in 1 . 5 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and 1 . 2 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Monitor CBC with differential count at baseline and prior to initiation of each cycle of ZALTRAP .
Delay ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI until neutrophil count is at or above 1 . 5 × 109 / L .
5 . 9 Diarrhea and Dehydration The incidence of severe diarrhea is increased in patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
In patients with mCRC , Grade 3 – 4 diarrhea was reported in 19 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 8 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 dehydration was reported in 4 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to 1 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The incidence of diarrhea is increased in patients who are age 65 years or older as compared to patients younger than 65 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor elderly patients closely for diarrhea .
5 . 10 Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome RPLS ( also known as posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome ) was reported in 0 . 5 % of 3795 patients treated with ZALTRAP monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy .
Confirm the diagnosis of RPLS with magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) and discontinue ZALTRAP in patients who develop RPLS .
Symptoms usually resolve or improve within days , although some patients have experienced ongoing neurologic sequelae or death [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 11 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , ZALTRAP can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Administration of ziv - aflibercept during the period of organogenesis was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rabbits at exposure levels approximately 0 . 3 times the human exposure at the 4 mg per kg dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZALTRAP and for 1 month following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Impaired Wound Healing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fistula Formation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Arterial Thromboembolic Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Proteinuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Neutropenia and Neutropenic Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Diarrhea and Dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % incidence ) were leukopenia , diarrhea , neutropenia , proteinuria , AST increased , stomatitis , fatigue , thrombocytopenia , ALT increased , hypertension , weight decreased , decreased appetite , epistaxis , abdominal pain , dysphonia , serum creatinine increased , and headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact sanofi - aventis at 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of ZALTRAP in combination with FOLFIRI was evaluated in VELOUR ( EFC102621 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients received ZALTRAP 4 mg per kg ( N = 611 ) or placebo ( N = 605 ) intravenously every two weeks ( one cycle ) in combination with FOLFIRI .
Patients received a median of 9 cycles of ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
The most common Grade 3 – 4 adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in the ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI arm were neutropenia , diarrhea , hypertension , leukopenia , stomatitis , fatigue , proteinuria , and asthenia .
The most frequent adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation in ≥ 1 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI regimen were asthenia / fatigue , infections , diarrhea , dehydration , hypertension , stomatitis , venous thromboembolic events , neutropenia , and proteinuria .
The ZALTRAP dose was reduced and / or omitted in 17 % of patients .
Cycle delays > 7 days occurred in 60 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) in the ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI arm were leukopenia , diarrhea , neutropenia , proteinuria , AST increased , stomatitis , fatigue , thrombocytopenia , ALT increased , hypertension , weight decreased , decreased appetite , epistaxis , abdominal pain , dysphonia , serum creatinine increased , and headache .
Adverse reactions and laboratory abnormalities that occurred in ≥ 5 % ( all grades ) of patients receiving ZALTRAP in combination with FOLFIRI and which occurred at ≥ 2 % higher frequency in patients who received ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI compared to those who received placebo / FOLFIRI in VELOUR are shown in Table 1 .
VELOUR was not designed to demonstrate a statistically significant difference in adverse reaction rates for ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI as compared to placebo / FOLFIRI for any adverse reactions listed below .
Table 1 : Selected Adverse Reactions and Laboratory Findings in VELOURPrimary System Organ Class Preferred Term ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI ( N = 611 ) Placebo / FOLFIRI ( N = 605 ) All grades ( % ) Grades 3 – 4 ( % ) All grades ( % ) Grades 3 – 4 ( % ) Note : Adverse Reactions are reported using MedDRA version 13 . 1 and graded using NCI CTC version 3 . 0 Blood and lymphatic system disorders Leukopenia 78 16 72 12 Neutropenia 67 37 57 30 Thrombocytopenia 48 3 35 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 69 19 57 8 Stomatitis 50 13 33 5 Abdominal Pain 27 4 24 2 Abdominal Pain Upper 11 1 8 1 Hemorrhoids 6 0 2 0 Rectal Hemorrhage 5 0 . 7 2 0 . 5 Proctalgia 5 0 . 3 2 0 . 3 Investigations AST increased 62 3 54 2 ALT increased 50 3 39 2 Weight decreased 32 3 14 0 . 8 Renal and urinary disorders Proteinuria [ 1 ] 62 8 41 1 Serum creatinine increased 23 0 19 0 . 5 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 48 13 39 8 Asthenia 18 5 13 3 Vascular disorders Hypertension 41 19 11 1 . 5 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased Appetite 32 3 24 2 Dehydration 9 4 3 1 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 28 0 . 2 7 0 Dysphonia 25 0 . 5 3 0 Dyspnea 12 0 . 8 9 0 . 8 Oropharyngeal Pain 8 0 . 2 3 0 Rhinorrhea 6 0 2 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 22 2 9 0 . 3 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome 11 3 4 0 . 5 Skin Hyperpigmentation 8 0 3 0 Infections Urinary Tract Infection 9 0 . 8 6 0 . 8 [ 1 ] Compilation of clinical and laboratory data Infections occurred at a higher frequency in patients receiving ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI ( 46 % , all grades ; 12 % , Grade 3 – 4 ) than in patients receiving placebo / FOLFIRI ( 33 % , all grades ; 7 % , Grade 3 – 4 ) , including urinary tract infection , nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , pneumonia , catheter site infection , and tooth infection .
In patients with mCRC , severe hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI ( 0 . 3 % ) and placebo / FOLFIRI ( 0 . 5 % ) .
In patients with mCRC , venous thromboembolic events ( VTE ) , consisting primarily of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism , occurred in 9 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and 7 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Grade 3 – 4 VTE occurred in 8 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and in 6 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
Pulmonary embolism occurred in 5 % of patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI and 3 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In patients with various cancers across 15 studies , 1 . 4 % ( 41 / 2862 ) of patients tested positive for antiproduct antibody ( APA ) at baseline .
The incidence of APA development was 3 . 1 % ( 53 / 1687 ) in patients receiving intravenous ziv - aflibercept and 1 . 7 % ( 19 / 1134 ) in patients receiving placebo .
Among patients who tested positive for APA and had sufficient samples for further testing , neutralizing antibodies were detected in 17 of 48 ziv - aflibercept - treated patients and in 2 of 40 patients receiving placebo .
The mean free ziv - aflibercept trough concentrations were lower in patients with positive neutralizing antibodies than in the overall population .
The impact of neutralizing antibodies on efficacy and safety could not be assessed based on limited available data .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ZALTRAP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Osteonecrosis of the jaw Cardiac disorders : Cardiac failure , ejection fraction decreased Vascular disorders : Arterial ( including aortic ) aneurysms , dissections , and rupture 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dedicated drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted for ZALTRAP .
No clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions were found between ziv - aflibercept and irinotecan / SN - 38 or fluorouracil [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal reproduction studies and its mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , ZALTRAP can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
There is insufficient data in pregnant women exposed to ZALTRAP to assess the risks .
Administration of ziv - aflibercept during the period of organogenesis was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rabbits at exposure levels approximately 0 . 3 times the human exposure at the 4 mg per kg dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal data In pregnant rabbits , administration of ziv - aflibercept during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increase in postimplantation loss and external ( including anasarca , umbilical hernia , diaphragmatic hernia and gastroschisis , cleft palate , ectrodactyly , and anal atresia ) , visceral ( heart , great vessels , and arteries ) , and skeletal fetal malformations ( including fused vertebrae , sternebrae , and ribs , supernumerary arches and ribs , and incomplete ossification ) at doses greater than or equal to 3 mg per kg , administered once every 3 days ( approximately 0 . 3 times the human exposure at the 4 mg per kg dose based on AUC ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ziv - aflibercept in human milk , or the effects of ziv - aflibercept on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZALTRAP and for 1 month following the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ZALTRAP .
Contraception Based on data from animal studies and its mechanism of action , ZALTRAP can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZALTRAP and for 1 month following the last dose .
Infertility Advise female and male patients of reproductive potential that ZALTRAP may impair reproductive function and fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Safety and efficacy were assessed , but not established in a dose - escalation , safety , and tolerability study ( NCT00622414 ) in 21 patients with solid tumors 2 to 21 years of age ( median age 12 . 9 ) .
The mean elimination half - life of free ziv - aflibercept determined after the first dose in 8 pediatric patients aged 5 to 17 years was within the range of values previously observed in adults .
The maximum tolerated dose based on body weight in these pediatric patients was lower than the dose known to be safe and effective in adults with mCRC .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Weekly / every - two - weeks intravenous administration of ziv - aflibercept at dose of 3 mg per kg ( approximately 0 . 6 times the human exposure at the 4 mg per kg dose based on AUC ) to growing young adult ( sexually mature ) cynomolgus monkeys for up to 6 months resulted in changes in the bone ( effects on growth plate and the axial and appendicular skeleton ) , nasal cavity ( atrophy / loss of the septum and / or turbinates ) , kidney ( glomerulopathy with inflammation ) , ovary ( decreased number of maturing follicles , granulosa cells , and / or theca cells ) , and adrenal gland ( decreased vacuolation with inflammation ) .
In another study in sexually immature cynomolgus monkeys ( treated intravenously for 3 months ) , there were similar effects .
The skeletal and nasal cavity effects were not reversible after a post - dosing recovery period .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 611 patients with mCRC , patients treated with ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI , 205 ( 34 % ) were 65 years or older , and 33 ( 5 % ) were 75 years or older .
Elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years of age ) experienced higher incidences ( ≥ 5 % ) of diarrhea , dizziness , asthenia , weight decrease , and dehydration when compared to younger patients .
Monitor elderly patients more closely for diarrhea and dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
The effect of ZALTRAP on overall survival was similar in patients < 65 years old and ≥ 65 years old who received ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage modification is recommended for patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage modification is recommended for patients with mild ( total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 times upper limit normal [ ULN ] and any aspartate transaminase [ AST ] ) and moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
ZALTRAP has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN and any AST ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Ziv - aflibercept is a vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor .
It is a recombinant fusion protein consisting of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor ( VEGF ) - binding portions from the extracellular domains of human VEGF Receptors 1 and 2 fused to the Fc portion of the human IgG1 .
Ziv - aflibercept is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) K - 1 mammalian expression system .
Ziv - aflibercept is a dimeric glycoprotein with a protein molecular weight of 97 kilodaltons ( kDa ) and contains glycosylation , constituting an additional 15 % of the total molecular mass , resulting in a total molecular weight of 115 kDa .
ZALTRAP ( ziv - aflibercept ) injection is a sterile , clear , colorless to pale - yellow , non - pyrogenic , preservative - free , solution for intravenous use .
ZALTRAP is supplied in single - dose vials of 100 mg / 4 mL and 200 mg / 8 mL formulated as 25 mg / mL ziv - aflibercept in polysorbate 20 ( 1 mg / mL ) , sodium chloride ( 5 . 84 mg / mL ) , sodium citrate ( 1 . 45 mg / mL ) , sodium phosphate ( 0 . 8 mg / mL ) , and sucrose ( 200 mg / mL ) , in Water for Injection , USP , at a pH of 6 . 2 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ziv - aflibercept acts as a soluble receptor that binds to human VEGF - A ( equilibrium dissociation constant KD of 0 . 5 pM for VEGF - A165 and 0 . 36 pM for VEGF - A121 ) , to human VEGF - B ( KD of 1 . 92 pM ) , and to human PlGF ( KD of 39 pM for PlGF - 2 ) .
By binding to these endogenous ligands , ziv - aflibercept can inhibit the binding and activation of their cognate receptors .
This inhibition can result in decreased neovascularization and decreased vascular permeability .
In animals , ziv - aflibercept was shown to inhibit the proliferation of endothelial cells , thereby inhibiting the growth of new blood vessels .
Ziv - aflibercept inhibited the growth of xenotransplanted colon tumors in mice .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of 6 mg per kg intravenous ZALTRAP every three weeks on QTc interval was evaluated in 87 patients with solid tumors in a randomized , placebo - controlled study .
No large changes in the mean QT interval from baseline ( i . e . , greater than 20 ms as corrected for placebo ) based on Fridericia correction method were detected in the study .
However , a small increase in the mean QTc interval ( i . e . , less than 10 ms ) cannot be excluded due to limitations of the study design .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma concentrations of free and VEGF - bound ziv - aflibercept were measured using specific enzyme - linked immunosorbent assays ( ELISA ) .
Free ziv - aflibercept concentrations appear to exhibit linear pharmacokinetics in the dose range of 2 mg per kg to 9 mg per kg .
Steady state concentrations of free ziv - aflibercept were reached by the second dose .
The accumulation ratio for free ziv - aflibercept was approximately 1 . 2 after administration of 4 mg per kg every two weeks .
Elimination Following a dose of 4 mg per kg every two weeks administered intravenously , the elimination half - life of free ziv - aflibercept was approximately 6 days ( range 4 – 7 days ) .
Specific Populations Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis , age , race , and sex did not have a clinically important effect on the exposure of free ziv - aflibercept .
Patients weighing ≥ 100 kg had a 29 % increase in systemic exposure compared to patients weighing 50 to 100 kg .
Patients with hepatic impairment Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis which included patients with mild ( total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST , n = 63 ) and moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST , n = 5 ) hepatic impairment , there was no effect of total bilirubin , AST , and alanine aminotransferase on the clearance of free ziv - aflibercept .
There are no data available for patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN and any AST ) .
Patients with renal impairment Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis which included patients with mild ( CLCR 50 – 80 mL / min , n = 549 ) , moderate ( CLCR 30 – 50 mL / min , n = 96 ) , and severe renal impairment ( CLCR < 30 mL / min , n = 5 ) , there was no clinically important effect of creatinine clearance on the clearance of free ziv - aflibercept .
Drug Interaction Studies No clinically meaningful interaction was found between ziv - aflibercept and irinotecan or fluorouracil based on cross - study comparisons and population pharmacokinetic analyses .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted to evaluate carcinogenicity or mutagenicity of ziv - aflibercept .
Ziv - aflibercept impaired reproductive function and fertility in monkeys .
In a 6 - month repeat - dose toxicology study in sexually mature monkeys , ziv - aflibercept inhibited ovarian function and follicular development , as evidenced by : decreased ovary weight , decreased amount of luteal tissue , decreased number of maturing follicles , atrophy of uterine endometrium and myometrium , vaginal atrophy , abrogation of progesterone peaks and menstrual bleeding .
Alterations in sperm morphology and decreased sperm motility were present in male monkeys .
These effects were observed at all doses tested including the lowest dose tested , 3 mg per kg .
Reversibility was observed within 18 weeks after cessation of treatment .
Systemic exposure ( AUC ) with a 3 mg per kg per dose in monkeys was approximately 0 . 6 times the AUC in patients at the 4 mg per kg dose .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Repeated administration of ziv - aflibercept resulted in a delay in wound healing in rabbits .
In full - thickness excisional and incisional skin wound models , ziv - aflibercept administration reduced fibrous response , neovascularization , epidermal hyperplasia / re - epithelialization , and tensile strength .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of ZALTRAP was evaluated in VELOUR ( NCT00561470 ) , a randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in patients with mCRC who are resistant to or have progressed during or within 6 months of receiving oxaliplatin - based combination chemotherapy , with or without prior bevacizumab .
Patients were randomized to receive either ZALTRAP 4 mg per kg intravenously over 1 hour on day 1 or placebo in combination with FOLFIRI ( irinotecan 180 mg / m2 intravenously over 90 minutes and leucovorin [ dl racemic ] 400 mg / m2 intravenously over 2 hours at the same time on day 1 using a Y - line , followed by fluorouracil 400 mg / m2 as an intravenous bolus and then by fluorouracil 2400 mg / m2 as a continuous intravenous infusion over 46 hours ) .
The treatment cycles on both arms were repeated every 2 weeks .
Patients were treated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Randomization was stratified by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status ( PS ) ( 0 versus 1 versus 2 ) and according to prior therapy with bevacizumab ( yes or no ) .
The major efficacy outcome measure was overall survival ( OS ) .
Additional efficacy outcome measures were progression - free survival ( PFS ) and overall response rate ( ORR ) .
Demographics characteristics were similar between treatment arms .
A total of 1226 patients were randomized , 612 to the ZALTRAP arm and 614 to the placebo arm .
The median age was 61 years , 59 % were men , 87 % were White , 7 % were Asian , 3 . 5 % were Black , and 98 % had a baseline ECOG PS of 0 or 1 .
Among the 1226 randomized patients , 89 % and 90 % of patients treated with placebo / FOLFIRI and ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI , respectively , received prior oxaliplatin - based combination chemotherapy in the metastatic / advanced setting .
A total of 346 patients ( 28 % ) received bevacizumab in combination with the prior oxaliplatin - based treatment .
Efficacy results are summarized in Figure 1 and Table 2 .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Curves of Overall Survival for VELOUR [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 2 : Main Efficacy Outcome Measures for VELOUR [ 1 ] ZALTRAP / FOLFIRI N = 612 Placebo / FOLFIRI N = 614 Overall Survival Number of deaths , n ( % ) 403 ( 65 . 8 % ) 460 ( 74 . 9 % ) Median overall survival ( 95 % CI ) ( months ) 13 . 50 ( 12 . 52 , 14 . 95 ) 12 . 06 ( 11 . 07 , 13 . 08 ) Stratified Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 817 ( 0 . 714 , 0 . 935 ) Stratified Log - Rank test p - value 0 . 0032 Progression Free Survival ( PFS ) null Number of events , n ( % ) 393 ( 64 . 2 % ) 454 ( 73 . 9 % ) Median PFS ( 95 % CI ) ( months ) 6 . 90 ( 6 . 51 , 7 . 20 ) 4 . 67 ( 4 . 21 , 5 . 36 ) Stratified Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 758 ( 0 . 661 , 0 . 869 ) Stratified Log - Rank test p - value [ 2 ] 0 . 00007 Overall Response Rate ( ORR ) ORR ( CR + PR ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 3 ] 19 . 8 % ( 16 . 4 % , 23 . 2 % ) 11 . 1 % ( 8 . 5 % , 13 . 8 % ) Stratified Cochran - Mantel - Haenszel test p - value 0 . 0001 [ 1 ] PFS ( based on tumor assessment by the IRC ) : Significance threshold is set to 0 . 0001 .
[ 2 ] Stratified on ECOG Performance Status ( 0 vs 1 vs 2 ) and Prior Bevacizumab ( yes vs no ) [ 3 ] Overall objective response rate by IRC Planned subgroup analyses for overall survival based on stratification factors at randomization yielded an HR of 0 . 86 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 68 , 1 . 1 ) in patients who received prior bevacizumab and an HR of 0 . 79 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 67 , 0 . 93 ) in patients without prior bevacizumab exposure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ZALTRAP ( ziv - aflibercept ) injection is a clear , colorless to pale - yellow solution supplied in single - dose vials with a concentration of 25 mg / mL .
NDC 0024 - 5840 - 01 : carton containing one single - dose vial of 100 mg / 4 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) NDC 0024 - 5841 - 01 : carton containing one single - dose vial of 200 mg / 8 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) Store ZALTRAP vials in a refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Keep the vials in the original outer carton to protect from light .
Discard unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hemorrhage • Inform patients that ZALTRAP can cause severe bleeding and advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for bleeding or symptoms of bleeding , including lightheadedness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Perforation and Fistula Formation • Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal perforation or fistula [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Impaired Wound Healing • Advise patients that ZALTRAP may impair wound healing .
Instruct patients to discuss any planned surgical procedure ( including tooth extractions ) with all their healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypertension • Inform patients that ZALTRAP can cause or exacerbate existing hypertension .
Advise patients to undergo routine blood pressure monitoring and to contact their healthcare provider if blood pressure is elevated or if symptoms from hypertension occur including severe headache , lightheadedness , or neurologic symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Arterial Thromboembolic Events • Inform patients of an increased risk of ATE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Proteinuria • Advise patients that they will need to undergo regular laboratory tests to monitor protein in their urine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Neutropenia and Neutropenic Complications • Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider of fever or other signs of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Diarrhea and Dehydration • Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider of severe diarrhea , vomiting , or severe abdominal pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Posterior Reversible Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome • Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for new onset or worsening neurological function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential : • of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• to use effective contraception during treatment with ZALTRAP and for 1 month following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZALTRAP and for 1 month following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Aneurysms and Artery Dissections • Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they have or have had an aneurysm ( swelling / enlargement and weakening of part of a blood vessel ) or artery dissection ( tear in a blood vessel wall ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 A SANOFI COMPANY U . S . License No . 1752 ZALTRAP is a registered trademark of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
© 2020 sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg / 4 mL Vial Carton NDC 0024 - 5840 - 01 ZALTRAP ® ( ziv - aflibercept ) Injection for Intravenous Infusion 100 mg / 4 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For intravenous infusion only .
Not to be administered by other routes .
Hyperosmotic , must be diluted .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion Rx ONLY SANOFI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg / 8 mL Vial Carton NDC 0024 - 5841 - 01 ZALTRAP ® ( ziv - aflibercept ) Injection for Intravenous Infusion 200 mg / 8 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For intravenous infusion only .
Not to be administered by other routes .
Hyperosmotic , must be diluted .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion Rx ONLY SANOFI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
