DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL contains : Glycine USP ..................................................................................... 1 . 5 g Water for Injection USP ...................................................................
qs pH : 6 . 1 ( 4 . 5 - 6 . 5 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 200 mOsmol / liter The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Glycine USP NH2CH2COOH 75 . 07 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous solution suitable for urologic irrigation .
This solution is slightly hypotonic .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is nontoxic and nonhemolytic with a refractive index close to that of water .
These properties make it useful as a urologic irrigating fluid , particularly during transurethral surgical procedures where the irrigant may be absorbed through cut venous sinuses .
Systemically absorbed glycine is primarily metabolized by transamination to serine , and by deamination to ammonia which is normally removed by its conversion to urea .
A portion of the absorbed glycine is excreted by the kidneys .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is indicated as an irrigant during transurethral prostatic or bladder surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is not for injection .
It is contraindicated in patients with anuria .
WARNINGS Solutions for urologic irrigation must be used with caution in patients with severe cardiopulmonary or renal dysfunction .
The amount of fluid absorbed during a transurethral resection is a function of the volume and hydrostatic pressure of the irrigant used , the number and size of venous sinuses opened , and the duration of the procedure .
Since irrigating fluids used during transurethral prostatectomy have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes , any irrigation solution must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts of fluids containing glycine and the resultant osmotic diuresis may significantly affect cardiopulmonary and renal dynamics .
Absorption of large amounts of irrigating solution can also result in pronounced hyponatremia and water intoxication .
After opening container , the contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservative .
PRECAUTIONS Cardiovascular status , especially in patients with cardiac disease , should be carefully determined before and during transurethral resection of the prostate when using 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP as an irrigant .
The fluid absorbed into the systemic circulation via severed prostatic veins may produce significant extracellular fluid expansion and lead to fulminating congestive heart failure .
Shift of sodium - free intracellular fluid into the extracellular compartment following systemic absorption of 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP may lower serum sodium concentration and aggravate pre - existing hyponatremia .
Excessive loss of water and electrolytes may lead to serious imbalances .
Sustained diuresis from transurethral irrigation with 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP may obscure and intensify inadequate hydration or hypovolemia .
Care should be exercised if impaired liver function is known or suspected .
Under such conditions , ammonia resulting from the metabolism of glycine may accumulate in the blood .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include fluid and electrolyte disorders such as acidosis , electrolyte loss , marked diuresis , urinary retention , edema and dehydration ; cardiovascular / pulmonary disorders such as pulmonary congestion , hypotension , tachycardia , angina - like pain and thrombophlebitis ; other possible reactions include visual disturbances , convulsions , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , vertigo and urticaria .
Literature includes reports on hyponatremia , hyperammonemia , transient blindness , coma ( immediate or delayed ) , and digitalis toxicity in digitalized patients .
If an adverse reaction occurs , discontinue the irrigant and reevaluate the clinical status of the patient .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As required for irrigation .
1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP should be administered only by the appropriate transurethral urologic instrumentation .
It has been reported that absorption is significantly increased if the container is higher than 60 cm ( 24 inches ) above the patient .
This drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in single - dose 3000 mL flexible irrigation containers packaged 4 per case .
NDC REF Size 0264 - 7390 - 60 R8406 3000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm container over 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : January 2019 Instructions for Preparation and Administration For Irrigation Use Only .
Not for injection .
Not for use with pressurized irrigation systems .
Aseptic technique is required .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Inspect irrigation bag : overwrap and primary bag .
• Do not use if overwrap has been damaged .
• Do not use unless solution is clear and closure is intact .
1 .
To open : Tear overwrap starting from the tear notches .
( Figure 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Prepare medication port by removal of aluminum foil .
( Figure 2 a ) • Puncture resealable medication port by using 19 – 22 gauge needle and inject additive ( s ) .
( Figure 2 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Medication port must be swabbed with disinfection agent before re - puncturing .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
( Figure 3 a ) • Check admixture visually for particulate matter .
( Figure 3 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Remove aluminum foil from outlet / set port at the bottom of container ( Figure 4 a ) and attach administration set ( Figure 4 b ) : use non - vented infusion set or close air vent on a vented set .
Refer to directions for use accompanying the administration set .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Hang bag on IV Pole .
( Figure 5 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y36 - 002 - 992 LD - 412 - 5 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3000 mL 1 . 5 % GLYCINE IRRIGATION USP FOR UROLOGIC IRRIGATION REF R8406 NDC 0264 - 7390 - 60 LOT EXP .
3000 mL Each 100 mL contains : Glycine USP 1 . 5 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 6 . 1 ( 4 . 5 - 6 . 5 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 200 mOsmol / liter Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warning : Do not warm container over 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single unit container .
Discard unused portion .
Use aseptic technique .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only Y38 - 000 - 067 LD - 257 - 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
