Active Ingredients Drug Facts Active Ingredients Salicylic acid 1 . 0 % Purposes Purposes Acne treatment Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Uses • helps keep skin clear of blackheads • helps prevent new acne blemishes • penetrates pores to eliminate most acne pimples Warnings Warnings For external use only Using other topical acne medication at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
Directions Directions • Apply to cleansed skin • Cover the affected area with a thin layer 1 to 2 times a day • Allow to absorb before applying moisturizer • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce use to once daily • For optimal efficacy , use with No ' Zit ' Sherlock acne system Other information Other information Reports on serious side effects associated with the use of the product can be sent to : 75 Varick St . 10 th Floor , New York , New York 10013 Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients water , alcohol denat . , butylene glycol , hamamelis virginiana ( witch hazel ) water , polysorbate 20 , ethoxydiglycol , xanthan gum , hydroxyethylcellulose , sodium hydroxide , algae extract , yogurt extract , glucosamine HCL , fragrance , hamamelis virginiana ( witch hazel ) extract , saccharomyces cerevisiae extract , tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate , urea , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , spiraea ulmaria extract Package Label bliss from our spa to your skin PROBIOTIC POWERED no ' zit ' sherlock acne system correcting serum helps fade post - pimple pigmentation minimizes the appearance of large pores evens skin ' s tone and texture why we ' re ' pro ' probiotics Probiotics ( like the yogurt and meadowsweet extract found in this moisturizer ) are ' beneficial ' bacteria similar to those found in your own body .
They help boost skin ' s natural defenses against bacteria and create a healthier environment .
bliss dist Bliss New York NY 10013 USA London HA3 6 DO UK 1003 - 02250 Made in USA blissworld . com 30 mL / 1 fl oz 1001 - 02252 - 208 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
