Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octisalate 2 % , Octocrylene 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , phenoxyethanol , Alcohol denat . , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium hyaluronate , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Simethicone , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Ingredients continued No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream Ingredients : Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , Sorbitan stearate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl alcohol , Ethylhexyl stearate , Polyacrylamide , Phenoxyethanol , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Alcohol denat . , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Sucrose cocoate , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Methylparaben , Carbomer , Laureth - 7 , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Xanthan gum , Sodium hyaluronate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , POtassium hydroxide , Lupinus albus seed extract , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , BHT , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Serum Ingredients : Cyclopentasiloxane , Aqua ( Water ) , Butylene glycol , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glycerin , Sodium ascorbyl phosphate , Arabinogalactan , Magnesium sulfate , PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium PCA , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , Hexyl laurate , Retinyl palmitate , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Methylparaben , Propylene glycol , Ethylparaben , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Polysorbate 20 , Panax ginseng root extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Morus alba leaf extract , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System Clinically proven technology from our best - selling serum now formulated into a day and night cream for improving the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles .
Key Ingredients : Vitamin C , Gingko and Emblica Fruit Extract ( Antioxidant Complex ) target free radicals that can lead to premature skin aging .
White Lupin Extract , Peptides and Alfalfa Extract ( Skin Firming Complex ) help smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and firm the skin ' s surface .
Pro - Retinol works at the surface of the skin to help normalize skin renewal , leaving skin looking smoother Glycerin and Shea Butter moisturize and nourish the skin , leaving it feeling softer and smoother Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 in the Day Cream helps to provide protection against the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures - see Drug Facts .
What is the No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System ?
The No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System is a rich and luxurious skincare system containing our clinically proven serum , a renewing day cream and an intensively nourishing night cream .
This daily skincare regimen helps you smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and promotes firmer feeling skin .
How do I use it ?
Use as part of your daily skincare routine .
Smooth No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Serum onto a clean face and neck with your finger tips .
In the morning , follow with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream .
At night , follow your serum application with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream to moisturize and help improve the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles while you sleep .
What should I use with these products ?
For best results use with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Eye Cream , specially developed for deeper lines around the delicate eye area .
To use : No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Serum Use day and night .
Smooth onto face and neck before applying your No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day and Night Creams No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream SPF 15 Use in the morning after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Intense Serum .
Massage in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream Use just before bedtime , after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Intense Serum .
Massge in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
Made in the UK .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - Boots / www . shopbootsusa . com Clinically proven Visible results No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Serum Improves the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles with regular use .
It immediately improves skin ' s radiance after the first application .
Pro - retinol works at the surface of the skin to help normalize skin renewal , leaving skin looking smoother .
The appearance of deep lines and wrinkles are reduced , leaving skin lookng younger in just 4 weeks .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System Experience a range formulated to work even better together to smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and promote firmer feeling skin .
Key Benefits Instant Benefits After 4 weeks Protect and Perfect Intense Serum Directly targets the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles Improves skin ’ s radiance Deep lines and wrinkles are visibly reduced Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 decreases the risk of early skin aging if used as directed – see Drug Facts Improves skin ’ s texture Deep lines and wrinkles are visibly reduced No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream Intensive overnight moisturization Skin is moisturized and feels more supple Deep lines and wrinkles are visibly reduced Jar Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 2 .
% , Octocrylene 4 % warning JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after applying your No7 serum .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
