DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are oral antihyperglycemic drugs used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets contain 500 mg or 750 mg of metformin hydrochloride USP as the active ingredient .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg contain the inactive ingredients xanthan gum , hypromellose , sodium carbonate , povidone , talc , colloidal silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 750 mg contain the inactive ingredients xanthan gum , hypromellose , sodium carbonate , povidone , talc , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate and ferric oxide ( red ) .
System Components and Performance - Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets comprises a hydrophilic polymer matrix system .
Metformin hydrochloride is combined with a drug release controlling polymers to form a monophasic matrix system .
After administration , fluid from the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract enters the tablet , causing the polymers to hydrate and swell .
Drug is released slowly from the dosage form by a process of diffusion through the gel matrix that is essentially independent of pH . The hydrated polymer system is not rigid and is expected to be broken up by normal peristalsis in the GI tract .
The biologically inert components of the tablet may occasionally remain intact during GI transit and will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability Following a single oral dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet , Cmax is achieved with a median value of 7 hours and a range of 4 hours to 8 hours .
At steady state , the AUC and Cmax are less than dose proportional for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets within the range of 500 mg to 2000 mg administered once daily .
Peak plasma levels are approximately 0 . 6 , 1 . 1 , 1 . 4 , and 1 . 8 µg / mL for 500 , 1000 , 1500 , and 2000 mg once - daily doses , respectively .
The extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at a 2000 mg once - daily dose is similar to the same total daily dose administered as metformin hydrochloride tablets 1000 mg twice daily .
After repeated administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , metformin did not accumulate in plasma .
Within - subject variability in Cmax and AUC of metformin from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is comparable to that with metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Although the extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet increased by approximately 50 % when given with food , there was no effect of food on Cmax and Tmax of metformin .
Both high and low fat meals had the same effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin hydrochloride tablets , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally < 1 µg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride tablets , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 µg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Elimination Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single - or multiple - dose pharmacokinetics of metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) , nor is there any accumulation of metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
The pharmacokinetics of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes are comparable to those in healthy normal adults .
Renal Insufficiency In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Table 1 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformin Hydrochloride TabletsSubject Groups : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets dosea ( number of subjects ) Cmaxb ( µg / mL ) Tmaxc ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration c Time to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 - 59 years ) e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 - 81 years ) g CLcr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m2 Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderlyf , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CLcrg 61 - 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CLcr 31 - 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CLcr 10 - 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) Pediatrics No pharmacokinetic data from studies of pediatric patients are currently available .
Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin hydrochloride tablets was comparable in males and females .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Clinical Studies METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise ( HbA1c 7 . 0 - 10 . 0 % , FPG 126 - 270 mg / dL ) .
Patients entering the study had a mean baseline HbA1c of 8 . 0 % and a mean baseline FPG of 176 mg / dL .
After 12 weeks treatment , mean HbA1c had increased from baseline by 0 . 1 % and mean FPG decreased from baseline by 2 mg / dL in the placebo group , compared with a decrease in mean HbA1c of 0 . 6 % and a decrease in mean FPG of 23 mg / dL in patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg once daily .
Subsequently , the treatment dose was increased to 1500 mg once daily if HbA1c was ≥ 7 . 0 % but < 8 . 0 % ( patients with HbA1c ≥ 8 . 0 % were discontinued from the study ) .
At the final visit ( 24 - week ) , mean HbA1c had increased 0 . 2 % from baseline in placebo patients and decreased 0 . 6 % with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
A 16 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled , dose - response study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal or twice daily with meals , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise ( HbA1c 7 . 0 - 11 . 0 % , FPG 126 - 280 mg / dL ) .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , and Body Weight at Final Visit ( 16 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo 500 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily 2000 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Twice Daily * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline a All comparisons versus Placebo ** Not statistically significant Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) ( n = 115 ) ( n = 115 ) ( n = 111 ) ( n = 125 ) ( n = 112 ) ( n = 111 ) Baseline 8 . 2 8 . 4 8 . 3 8 . 4 8 . 4 8 . 4 Change at FINAL VISIT – 0 . 4 – 0 . 6 – 0 . 9 – 0 . 8 – 1 . 1 0 . 1 p - valuea < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 – FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 126 ) ( n = 118 ) ( n = 120 ) ( n = 132 ) ( n = 122 ) ( n = 113 ) Baseline 182 . 7 183 . 7 178 . 9 181 . 0 181 . 6 179 . 6 Change at FINAL VISIT – 15 . 2 – 19 . 3 – 28 . 5 – 29 . 9 – 33 . 6 7 . 6 p - valuea < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 – Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 125 ) ( n = 119 ) ( n = 117 ) ( n = 131 ) ( n = 119 ) ( n = 113 ) Baseline 192 . 9 191 . 8 188 . 3 195 . 4 192 . 5 194 . 3 Change at FINAL VISIT – 1 . 3 – 1 . 3 – 0 . 7 – 1 . 5 – 2 . 2 – 1 . 8 p - valuea NS ** NS ** NS ** NS ** NS ** – Compared with placebo , improvement in glycemic control was seen at all dose levels of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and treatment was not associated with any significant change in weight ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for dosing recommendations for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) .
A 24 - week , double - blind , randomized study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , and metformin hydrochloride tablets , taken twice daily ( with breakfast and evening meal ) , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had been treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets , 500 mg twice daily for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry .
The metformin hydrochloride tablets dose had not necessarily been titrated to achieve a specific level of glycemic control prior to study entry .
Patients qualified for the study if HbA1c was ≤ 8 . 5 % and FPG was ≤ 200 mg / dL .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , and Body Weight at Week 12 and at Final Visit ( 24 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 6 . 99 7 . 02 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 23 0 . 04 ( 95 % CI ) ( 0 . 10 , 0 . 36 ) ( – 0 . 08 , 0 . 15 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 27 0 . 13 ( 95 % CI ) ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 43 ) ( – 0 . 02 , 0 . 28 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 70 ) Baseline 131 . 0 131 . 4 Change at 12 Weeks 9 . 5 3 . 7 ( 95 % CI ) ( 4 . 4 , 14 . 6 ) ( – 0 . 4 , 7 . 8 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 11 . 5 7 . 6 ( 95 % CI ) ( 4 . 4 , 18 . 6 ) ( 1 . 0 , 14 . 2 ) Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 74 ) ( n = 71 ) Baseline 202 . 8 192 . 7 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 9 0 . 7 ( 95 % CI ) ( 0 . 0 , 2 . 0 ) ( – 0 . 4 , 1 . 8 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 1 . 1 0 . 9 ( 95 % CI ) ( – 0 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) ( – 0 . 4 , 2 . 0 ) After 12 weeks of treatment , there was an increase in mean HbA1c in all groups ; in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg group , the increase from baseline of 0 . 23 % was statistically significant ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described placebo - controlled dose - response study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Summary of Mean Percent Changes from Baseline * in Major Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 16 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo 500 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily 2000 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Twice Daily * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 120 ) ( n = 113 ) ( n = 110 ) ( n = 126 ) ( n = 117 ) ( n = 110 ) Baseline 210 . 3 218 . 1 214 . 6 204 . 4 208 . 2 208 . 6 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 1 . 0 % 1 . 7 % 0 . 7 % – 1 . 6 % – 2 . 6 % 2 . 6 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) ( n = 120 ) ( n = 113 ) ( n = 110 ) ( n = 126 ) ( n = 117 ) ( n = 110 ) Baseline 220 . 2 211 . 9 198 . 0 194 . 2 179 . 0 211 . 7 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 14 . 5 % 9 . 4 % 15 . 1 % 14 . 9 % 9 . 4 % 10 . 9 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 119 ) ( n = 113 ) ( n = 109 ) ( n = 126 ) ( n = 117 ) ( n = 107 ) Baseline 131 . 0 134 . 9 135 . 8 125 . 8 131 . 4 131 . 9 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT – 1 . 4 % – 1 . 6 % – 3 . 5 % – 3 . 3 % – 5 . 5 % 3 . 2 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 120 ) ( n = 108 ) ( n = 108 ) ( n = 125 ) ( n = 117 ) ( n = 108 ) Baseline 40 . 8 41 . 6 40 . 6 40 . 2 42 . 4 39 . 4 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 6 . 2 % 8 . 6 % 5 . 5 % 6 . 1 % 7 . 1 % 5 . 8 % Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Summary of Mean Percent Changes from Baseline in Major Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 24 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 201 . 9 201 . 6 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 1 . 3 % 0 . 1 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 169 . 2 206 . 8 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 25 . 3 % 33 . 4 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 126 . 2 115 . 7 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT − 3 . 3 % − 3 . 7 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 65 ) Baseline 41 . 7 44 . 6 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 1 . 0 % – 2 . 1 % INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued in patients undergoing radiologic studies involving intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials , because use of such products may result in acute alteration of renal function .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
WARNINGS Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 µg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ' s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and by use of the minimum effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ' s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose , and if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS . )
PRECAUTIONS General Macrovascular Outcomes - There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Monitoring of renal function - Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function .
Thus , patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In patients with advanced age , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect , because aging is associated with reduced renal function .
In elderly patients , particularly those ≥ 80 years of age , renal function should be monitored regularly and , generally , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be titrated to the maximum dose ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Before initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified as normal .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , renal function should be assessed more frequently and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or metformin disposition - Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin , such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , should be used with caution .
Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials ( for example , intravenous urogram , intravenous cholangiography , angiography , and computed tomography ( CT ) scans with intravascular contrast materials ) - Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re - evaluated and found to be normal .
Hypoxic states - Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued .
Surgical procedures - Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ' s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
Alcohol intake - Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Impaired hepatic function — Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels - In controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride tablets of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes - A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate , and metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia - Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Loss of control of blood glucose - When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to withhold metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and temporarily administer insulin .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved .
The effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in lowering blood glucose to a targeted level decreases in many patients over a period of time .
This phenomenon , which may be due to progression of the underlying disease or to diminished responsiveness to the drug , is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective during initial therapy .
Should secondary failure occur with either metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or sulfonylurea monotherapy , combined therapy with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea may result in a response .
Should secondary failure occur with combined metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets / sulfonylurea therapy , it may be necessary to consider therapeutic alternatives including initiation of insulin therapy .
Hemolytic Anemia : Treatment of patients with glucose 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency with sulfonylurea agents can lead to hemolytic anemia .
Because metformin hydrochloride belongs to the class of sulfonylurea agents , caution should be used in patients with G6PD deficiency and a non - sulfonylurea alternative should be considered .
In postmarketing reports , hemolytic anemia has also been reported in patients who did not have known G6PD deficiency .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function , and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of metformin therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counselled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
( See Patient Information printed below . )
Patients should be informed that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet .
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with metformin hydrochloride tablet therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ) Glyburide - In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , coadministration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and Cmax were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide - A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood Cmax by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically .
Nifedipine - A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
Tmax and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Cationic drugs - Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , or vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other - Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol , and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when coadministered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately four times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney and because the risk of serious adverse reactions to the drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should only be used in patients with normal renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because aging is associated with reduced renal function , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution as age increases .
Care should be taken in dose selection and should be based on careful and regular monitoring of renal function .
Generally , elderly patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( see also WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In worldwide clinical trials over 900 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in placebo - and active - controlled studies .
In placebo - controlled trials , 781 patients were administered metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and 195 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets patients , and that were more common in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 . 0 Percent ) in Placebo - Controlled Studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets * Adverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 781 ) Placebo ( n = 195 ) % of Patients * Reactions that were more common in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - than placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea 9 . 6 2 . 6 Nausea / Vomiting 6 . 5 1 . 5 Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 0 . 6 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 % - ≤ 5 . 0 % of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets patients and were more commonly reported with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets than placebo : abdominal pain , constipation , distention abdomen , dyspepsia / heartburn , flatulence , dizziness , headache , upper respiratory infection , taste disturbance .
OVERDOSAGE Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in adults is 2000 mg .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should generally be given once daily with the evening meal .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
( See Patient Information printed below . )
Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults - In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is 500 mg once daily with the evening meal .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly , up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
If glycemic control is not achieved on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2000 mg once daily , a trial of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg twice daily should be considered .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies . )
In a randomized trial , patients currently treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets were switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Results of this trial suggest that patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablet treatment may be safely switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2000 mg once daily .
Following a switch from metformin hydrochloride tablets to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
Pediatrics - Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Transfer From Other Antidiabetic Therapy When transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2000 mg for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients ( below the age of 17 years ) .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
( See WARNINGS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 500 mg Bottles of 30 NDC 21695 - 828 - 30 500 mg Bottles of 60 NDC 21695 - 828 - 60 500 mg Bottles of 90 NDC 21695 - 828 - 90 Metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets , 500 mg are white to off - white , capsule shaped , uncoated tablet debossed with ' 142 ' on one side and plain on the other side .
Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in light - resistant containers .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
Acme Plaza , Andheri - Kurla Road Andheri ( East ) , Mumbai - 400 059 , India Distributed by : Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories , Ltd . 1150 Elijah McCoy Drive , Detroit , MI 48202 PJPI0125A ISS .
03 / 2009 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Patient Information Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Read this information carefully before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of your doctor ' s advice .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What are Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used to treat type 2 diabetes .
This is also known as non - insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
People with type 2 diabetes are not able to make enough insulin or respond normally to the insulin their bodies make .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems including kidney damage , amputations , and blindness .
Diabetes is also closely linked to heart disease .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of medicines taken by mouth , and by insulin shots .
Before you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , try to control your diabetes by exercise and weight loss .
While you take your diabetes medicine , continue to exercise and follow the diet advised for your diabetes .
No matter what your recommended diabetes management plan is , studies have shown that maintaining good blood sugar control can prevent or delay complications of diabetes , such as blindness .
This medicine helps control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not cause your body to make more insulin .
Because of this , when taken alone , they rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , and usually do not cause weight gain .
However , when they are taken with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia is more likely to occur , as is weight gain .
WARNING : A small number of people who have taken metformin hydrochloride tablets have developed a serious condition called lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is caused by a buildup of lactic acid in the blood .
This happens more often in people with kidney problems .
Most people with kidney problems should not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
( See “ What are the side effects of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ? ” )
Who should not take Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Some conditions increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis , or cause other problems if you take either of these medicines .
Most of the conditions listed below can increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis .
Do not take Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets if you : • have kidney problems • have liver problems • have heart failure that is treated with medicines , such as Lanoxin ® ( digoxin ) or Lasix ® ( furosemide ) • drink a lot of alcohol .
This means you binge drink for short periods or drink all the time • are seriously dehydrated ( have lost a lot of water from your body ) • are going to have an x - ray procedure with injection of dyes ( contrast agents ) • are going to have surgery • develop a serious condition , such as heart attack , severe infection , or a stroke • are 80 years or older and you have NOT had your kidney function tested Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may not be right for you .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
You should also discuss your choices with your doctor if you are nursing a child .
Can Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets be used in children ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in children .
How should I take Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Your doctor will tell you how much medicine to take and when to take it .
You will probably start out with a low dose of the medicine .
Your doctor may slowly increase your dose until your blood sugar is better controlled .
You should take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with meals .
Your doctor may have you take other medicines along with metformin hydrochloride extended – release tablets to control your blood sugar .
These medicines may include insulin shots .
Taking metformin hydrochloride extended – release tablets with insulin may help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose .
Continue your exercise and diet program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking metformin hydrochloride extended – release tablets .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that metformin hydrochloride extended – release tablets cause harm to the liver or kidneys .
Tell your doctor if you • have an illness that causes severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a much lower amount of liquid than normal .
These conditions can lead to severe dehydration ( loss of water in your body ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended – release tablets for a short time .
• plan to have surgery or an x - ray procedure with injection of dye ( contrast agent ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a short time .
• start to take other medicines or change how you take a medicine .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can affect how well other drugs work , and some drugs can affect how well metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work .
Some medicines may cause high blood sugar .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be eliminated as a soft mass in your stool that may look like the original tablet ; this is not harmful and will not affect the way metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work to control your diabetes .
What should I avoid while taking Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Lactic Acidosis .
In rare cases , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause a serious side effect called lactic acidosis .
This is caused by a buildup of lactic acid in your blood .
This build - up can cause serious damage .
Lactic acidosis caused by metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is rare and has occurred mostly in people whose kidneys were not working normally .
It is also important for your liver to be working normally when you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Your liver helps remove lactic acid from your blood .
Make sure you tell your doctor before you use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you have kidney or liver problems .
You should also stop using metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and call your doctor right away if you have signs of lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital .
Signs of lactic acidosis are : • feeling very weak , tired , or uncomfortable • unusual muscle pain • trouble breathing • unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort • feeling cold • feeling dizzy or lightheaded • suddenly developing a slow or irregular heartbeat If your medical condition suddenly changes , stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and call your doctor right away .
This may be a sign of lactic acidosis or another serious side effect .
Other Side Effects .
Common side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ' ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol , or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
General advice about prescription medicines If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
Acme Plaza , Andheri - Kurla Road Andheri ( East ) , Mumbai - 400 059 , India Distributed by : Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories , Ltd . 1150 Elijah McCoy Drive , Detroit , MI 48202 PJPI0125A ISS .
03 / 2009 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - LABEL - 500 MG [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
