1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing dorzolamide 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) equivalent to 22 . 3 mg / mL of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
Ophthalmic solution containing dorzolamide 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity ( 5 . 1 ) • Bacterial Keratitis ( 5 . 2 ) • Corneal Endothelium ( 5 . 3 ) • Allergic Reactions ( 5 . 4 ) • Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution contains dorzolamide , a sulfonamide ; and although administered topically , it is absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur , discontinue the use of this preparation [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Bacterial Keratitis There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
5 . 3 Corneal Endothelium Carbonic anhydrase activity has been observed in both the cytoplasm and around the plasma membranes of the corneal endothelium .
There is an increased potential for developing corneal edema in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
Caution should be used when prescribing dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution to this group of patients .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions In clinical studies , local ocular adverse effects , primarily conjunctivitis and lid reactions , were reported with chronic administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Many of these reactions had the clinical appearance and course of an allergic - type reaction that resolved upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
If such reactions are observed , dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should be discontinued and the patient evaluated before considering restarting the drug [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma The management of patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma requires therapeutic interventions in addition to ocular hypotensive agents .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions associated with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution were ocular burning , stinging , or discomfort immediately following ocular administration ( approximately one - third of patients ) .
Approximately one - quarter of patients noted a bitter taste following administration .
Superficial punctate keratitis occurred in 10 to 15 % of patients and signs and symptoms of ocular allergic reaction in approximately 10 % .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Indoco Remedies Limited at + 1 - 855 - 642 - 2594 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Controlled clinical trials : The most frequent adverse reactions associated with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution were ocular burning , stinging , or discomfort immediately following ocular administration ( approximately one - third of patients ) .
Approximately one - quarter of patients noted a bitter taste following administration .
Superficial punctate keratitis occurred in 10 to 15 % of patients and signs and symptoms of ocular allergic reaction in approximately 10 % .
Reactions occurring in approximately 1 to 5 % of patients were conjunctivitis and lid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , blurred vision , eye redness , tearing , dryness , and photophobia .
Other ocular reactions and systemic reactions were reported infrequently , including headache , nausea , asthenia / fatigue ; and , rarely , skin rashes , urolithiasis , and iridocyclitis .
In a 3 - month , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled , multicenter study in pediatric patients , the adverse reactions profile of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was comparable to that seen in adult patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including angioedema , bronchospasm , pruritus , and urticaria ; Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ; dizziness , paresthesia ; ocular pain , transient myopia , choroidal detachment following filtration surgery , eyelid crusting ; dyspnea ; contact dermatitis , epistaxis , dry mouth and throat irritation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS · Potential additive effect of oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
( 7 . 1 ) • Potential acid - base and electrolyte disturbances .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
The concomitant administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended .
7 . 2 High - Dose Salicylate Therapy Although acid - base and electrolyte disturbances were not reported in the clinical trials with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , these disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and have , in some instances , resulted in drug interactions ( e . g . , toxicity associated with high - dose salicylate therapy ) .
Therefore , the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Dorzolamide caused fetal vertebral malformations when administered orally to rabbits at 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 37 times the clinical exposure ) .
Dorzolamide administered during the period of organogenesis was not teratogenic in rabbits dosed up to 1 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the clinical exposure ) .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride administered orally to rats during late gestation and lactation caused growth delays in offspring at 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 52 times the clinical exposure ) .
Growth was not delayed at 1 mg / kg / day ( 8 . 0 times the clinical exposure ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Developmental toxicity studies were conducted in pregnant rabbits administered dorzolamide hydrochloride orally during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 through 18 at doses of 0 . 2 , 1 , 2 . 5 , 5 , and 10 mg / kg / day .
The developmental lowest observed adverse effect level ( LOAEL ) was 2 . 5 mg / kg / day , based on vertebral malformations and decreased fetal body weight .
The maternal LOAEL was 2 . 5 mg / kg / day , based on metabolic acidosis and reduced weight gain .
The maternal and developmental no adverse effect levels ( NOAELs ) were 1 mg / kg / day .
The rabbit doses of 1 and 2 . 5 mg / kg / day represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rabbits 15 and 37 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride was administered orally to rats during late gestation and lactation ( gestation day 17 through postpartum day 20 ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 , or 7 . 5 mg / kg / day .
The developmental LOAEL was 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , based on reduced birth weight , reduced weight gain , and a slight delay in postnatal development ( incisor eruption , vaginal canalization and eye openings ) secondary to lower offspring body weight .
This 7 . 5 mg / kg / day dose represents an estimated plasma Cmax level in rats 52 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
The developmental NOAEL was 1 mg / kg / day .
The maternal LOAEL was 1 mg / kg / day , based on reduced body weight gain .
The maternal NOAEL was 0 . 1 mg / kg / day .
The rat doses of 1 and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rats approximately 8 . 0 times and approximately equal ( 1 x ) , respectively to the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Dorzolamide is present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Data Animal Data Lactating rats were dosed orally with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day of dorzolamide hydrochloride ; dorzolamide and the N - desethyl metabolite were detected in the milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution have been demonstrated in pediatric patients in a 3 - month , multicenter , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled trial .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal and Hepatic Impairment Dorzolamide has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
Because dorzolamide and its metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney , dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is not recommended in such patients .
Dorzolamide has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and should therefore be used with caution in such patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and possible central nervous system effects may occur .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
11 DESCRIPTION Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor formulated for topical ophthalmic use .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is described chemically as : ( 4 S - trans ) - 4 - ( ethylamino ) - 5 , 6 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 4 H - thieno [ 2 , 3 - b ] thiopyran - 2 - sulfonamide 7 , 7 - dioxide monohydrochloride .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is optically active .
The specific rotation is α 25 o ( C = 1 , water ) = ~ - 17 o . 405 Its empirical formula is C10H16N2O4S3 • HCl and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dorzolamide hydrochloride has a molecular weight of 360 . 9 and a melting point of about 264 ° C .
It is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , which is soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol and ethanol .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Sterile Ophthalmic Solution , USP is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , slightly viscous , aqueous solution of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
The pH of the solution is approximately 5 . 6 , and the osmolarity is 260 - 330 mOsM .
Each mL of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP 2 % contains 20 mg dorzolamide ( equivalent to 22 . 3 mg of dorzolamide hydrochloride ) .
Inactive ingredients are hydroxyethyl cellulose , mannitol , sodium citrate dihydrate , sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 0075 % is added as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carbonic anhydrase ( CA ) is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body including the eye .
It catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In humans , carbonic anhydrase exists as a number of isoenzymes , the most active being carbonic anhydrase II ( CA - II ) , found primarily in red blood cells ( RBCs ) , but also in other tissues .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor secretion , presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport .
The result is a reduction in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution contains dorzolamide hydrochloride , an inhibitor of human carbonic anhydrase II .
Following topical ocular administration , dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution reduces elevated intraocular pressure .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics When topically applied , dorzolamide reaches the systemic circulation .
To assess the potential for systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibition following topical administration , drug and metabolite concentrations in RBCs and plasma and carbonic anhydrase inhibition in RBCs were measured .
Dorzolamide accumulates in RBCs during chronic dosing as a result of binding to CA - II .
The parent drug forms a single N - desethyl metabolite , which inhibits CA - II less potently than the parent drug but also inhibits CA - I .
The metabolite also accumulates in RBCs where it binds primarily to CA - I .
Plasma concentrations of dorzolamide and metabolite are generally below the assay limit of quantitation ( 15 nM ) .
Dorzolamide binds moderately to plasma proteins ( approximately 33 % ) .
Dorzolamide is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine ; the metabolite also is excreted in urine .
After dosing is stopped , dorzolamide washes out of RBCs nonlinearly , resulting in a rapid decline of drug concentration initially , followed by a slower elimination phase with a half - life of about four months .
To simulate the systemic exposure after long - term topical ocular administration , dorzolamide was given orally to eight healthy subjects for up to 20 weeks .
The oral dose of 2 mg twice daily closely approximates the amount of drug delivered by topical ocular administration of dorzolamide 2 % three times daily .
Steady state was reached within 8 weeks .
The inhibition of CA - II and total carbonic anhydrase activities was below the degree of inhibition anticipated to be necessary for a pharmacological effect on renal function and respiration in healthy individuals .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility In a two - year study of dorzolamide hydrochloride administered orally to male and female Sprague - Dawley rats , urinary bladder papillomas were seen in male rats in the highest dosage group of 20 mg / kg / day .
Papillomas were not seen in rats given oral doses of 1 mg / kg / day .
These doses represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rats , 138 and 7 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively .
No treatment - related tumors were seen in a 21 - month study in female and male mice given oral doses up to 75 mg / kg / day .
This dose represents an estimated plasma Cmax level in mice , 582 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
The increased incidence of urinary bladder papillomas seen in the high - dose male rats is a class - effect of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors in rats .
Rats are particularly prone to developing papillomas in response to foreign bodies , compounds causing crystalluria , and diverse sodium salts .
No changes in bladder urothelium were seen in dogs given oral dorzolamide hydrochloride for one year at 2 mg / kg / day or monkeys dosed topically to the eye for one year .
An oral dose of 2 mg / kg / day in dogs represents an estimated plasma Cmax level , 137 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
The topical ophthalmic dose in monkeys was approximately equivalent to the human topical ophthalmic dose .
The following tests for mutagenic potential were negative : ( 1 ) in vivo ( mouse ) cytogenetic assay ; ( 2 ) in vitro chromosomal aberration assay ; ( 3 ) alkaline elution assay ; ( 4 ) V - 79 assay ; and ( 5 ) Ames test .
In fertility studies of dorzolamide hydrochloride in rats , there were no adverse effects on the reproductive capacity of males or females at doses of 15 and 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rats , 103 and 52 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was demonstrated in clinical studies in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension ( baseline IOP > 23 mmHg ) .
The IOP - lowering effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was approximately 3 to 5 mmHg throughout the day and this was consistent in clinical studies of up to one year duration .
The efficacy of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution when dosed less frequently than three times a day ( alone or in combination with other products ) has not been established .
In a one year clinical study , the effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 % three times daily on the corneal endothelium was compared to that of betaxolol ophthalmic solution twice daily and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % twice daily .
There were no statistically significant differences between groups in corneal endothelial cell counts or in corneal thickness measurements .
There was a mean loss of approximately 4 % in the endothelial cell counts for each group over the one year period .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP is a slightly opalescent , colorless to nearly colorless , slightly viscous solution .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 % is supplied in a natural , LDPE plastic ophthalmic bottle with a natural nozzle and an orange , tamper - evident cap .
NDC 14445 - 404 - 10 , 10 mL , in an 10 mL capacity bottle .
Storage Store dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
After opening , dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
TEAR AND DISCARD RING BEFORE USE .
Do not use if tear - off ring is broken or missing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Sulfonamide Reactions Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is a sulfonamide and although administered topically is absorbed systemically .
Therefore the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration .
Advise patients that if serious or unusual reactions including severe skin reactions or signs of hypersensitivity occur , they should discontinue the use of the product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Intercurrent Ocular Conditions Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
Handling Ophthalmic Solutions Instruct patients that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
Contact Lens Use Advise patients that dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of the solution .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution administration .
When to Seek Physician Advice Advise patients that if they develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and lid reactions , they should discontinue use and seek their physician ' s advice .
Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Manufactured by : Indoco Remedies Limited L - 32 , 33 , 34 , Verna Industrial Area Verna , Goa - 403722 , India .
Revised : January 2021 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 % Before using your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution Before using your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution for the first time , be sure the tamper evident ring between the bottle and the cap is unbroken ( See Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] figure A Step 1 .
Wash your hands .
Step 2 .
Before opening the bottle for the first time , tear off the tamper evident ring to break the seal ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] figure B Step 3 .
To open the bottle , remove the cap by turning it in the counterclockwise direction ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] figure C Giving your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution drops Step 4 .
Tilt your head back and pull your lower eyelid down slightly to form a pocket between your eyelid and your eye .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] figure D Step 5 .
Turn your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution dispenser upside down and squeeze lightly with the thumb or index finger ( as shown ) until a single drop is dispensed into the eye as directed by your doctor .
See Figure E . [ MULTIMEDIA ] figure E Step 6 .
The dispenser tip is designed to provide a single drop ; therefore , do NOT enlarge the hole of the dispenser tip .
Step 7 .
If your doctor has told you to use dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution drops in both eyes , repeat Steps 4 and 5 .
After using your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution Step 8 .
Replace the cap by turning until it is firmly on the bottle .
After you have used all of your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution doses , there will be some dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution medicine left in the dispenser .
Do not try to remove the extra medicine from the dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution dispenser .
Throw away your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution dispenser in your household trash .
How should I store dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ?
• Store dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) • Protect from light • After opening , dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution can be used until the expiration date on the bottle • Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
KEEP dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Important information about using dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution • If you have any eye or skin reactions , especially conjunctivitis or eyelid reactions to dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , stop using it and call your doctor right away .
• If you have eye surgery or have a problem such as trauma or infection of your eye while using dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , call your doctor right away .
• If you do not handle eye medicines the right way the medicine can become contaminated .
If the tip of the dispenser touches your eye or areas around your eye , the tip can become contaminated with bacteria which can cause an eye infection and other serious problems including loss of eyesight .
• If you use other eye medicines dropped onto the eye like dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , use the medicines at least 5 minutes before or after you use dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
• Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
If you wear contact lenses , remove them before you use your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
You can place your contact lenses back into your eyes 15 minutes after using your dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
This Instructions for use has been approved by the U . S Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Indoco Remedies Limited L - 32 , 33 , 34 , Verna Industrial Area Verna , Goa - 403722 , India .
Revised : January 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 14445 - 404 - 10 .
Indoco Remedies Limited .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP , 2 % .
10 ml in 10 ml bottle Container Label Rx [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 14445 - 404 - 10 .
Indoco Remedies Limited .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP , 2 % .
10 ml Carton Label Rx [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
