ACTIVE INGREDIENTS PURPOSE Octocrylene 10 % .................... Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide 5 . 1 % ............
Sunscreen Avobenzone 4 % .....................
Sunscreen [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings SUN ALERT : The sun causes skin damages .
Regular use of sunscreens over the years may reduce the risks of skin damages , some types of skin cancer , and other harmful effects due to the sun For external use only , not to be swallowed .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep our of the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
DIscontinue uses if signs or irritationsor rash appears .
If irritation or rash persists , consult with a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
Children under 6 months : as a doctor .
WARNINGS Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Children under 6 months : ask a doctor Warnings Keep out of reach of children Questions or comments ?
+ 34 961 501 999 M - F 9 : 00 am to 5 : 00 pm Other Information .
keep the product in a cool and dry place Directions • adults and childrens 6 months of age and over : apply generaously before sun exposure .
Reapply after swiming , excessive sweating or anytime after towel drying .
Children under 2 years of age or less should use sunscreen products with a minium of SPF 4 • children under 6 months of age , consult with a doctor • adults and childrens 6 months of age and over : apply generaously before sun exposure .
Reapply after swiming , excessive sweating or anytime after towel drying .
Children under 2 years of age or less should use sunscreen products with a minium of SPF 4 • children under 6 months of age , consult with a doctor Uses • provides high protection against sunburns • sunscreen to help prevent sunburns .
FIlters the sun rays to help prevent the skin damages Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Butylene glycol dicaprylate / dicaprate , Ethylhexyl salicylate , Alcohol denat , Bemotrizinol , Polysilicone - 15 , Cetyl alcohol , Glyceryl stearate , Phenoxyethanol , PEG - 75 stearate , Silica , Xanthan gum , Butylene glycol , Ceteth - 20 , Steareth - 20 , Dimethicone , Ethylhexylglycerin , Tetrasodium glutamate diacetate , Fragrance , Soybean protein Uses • provides high protection against sunburns • sunscreen to help prevent sunburns .
FIlters the sun rays to help prevent the skin damages Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
