Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each ml ) PURIFIED WATER 98 . 8 % Purpose Eye Washing Use : • for cleaning the eye to help relieve irritation , discomfort , burning , stinging , smarting or itching by removing loose foreign material , air pollutants ( smog or pollen ) or chlorinated water .
Warnings : To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of the container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Onced open , discard .
• if you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye , or if the condition worsens or persists , consult a doctor • obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near the eye • if solution changes colors or becomes cloudy , do not use .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • do not dilute solution or reuse bottle • hold container a few inches above the eye • control rate of flow by pressure on bottle • flush affected area as needed Without Cup • hold container a few inches above the eye • control rate of flow by pressure on bottle • flush affected area as needed With Cup • rinse cup with clean water immediately before each use .
Avoid contamination of rim and inside surfaceof cup • fill cup half full with OcuFresh Eye Wash and apply the cup to the affected eye , pressing tightly to prevent escape of the liquid , and tilt the head backward • open eyelids wide and rotate eyeball to ensure thorough bathing with the wash • rinse cup with clean water after each use Other Information : Store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients : Sodium Chloride , Sodium Borate , Boric Acid , benzalkonium Chloride Questions or Comments ?
800 - 968 - 6788 OcuFresh product label OPTICS ® Laboratory OcuFresh ® Eye Wash The Safe Choice for Cleansing Your Eyes 60 Sterile Single - Use Bottles Each bottle contains : 20 ml ( 0 . 68 fl oz ) OcuFresh ® cleanses your eyes to remove loose foreign material , pollen or chlorinated water to help relieve your eyes from : Irritation • Stinging • Burning • Discomfort Manufactured for : Optics Laboratory , Inc . , El Monte , CA 91731 USA Made ib Taiwan Optics Laboratory and ocufresh are trademarksof : Optics Laboratory , inc © 2015 Optics Laboratory , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OPTICS ® Laboratory OcuFresh ® Eye Wash Sterile in Single - Use Bottles The Safe Choice for Cleansing Your Eyes 6 Sterile Single - Use Bottles Sterile Eye Cup Included Convenient and easy to carry Use only if tab and single - use bottles are intact [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
