Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Guaifenesin 100 mg Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageway of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold • stuffy nose Warnings Do not use • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
.
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • thyroid disease • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occurs • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with a fever , rash or headache that lasts .
these could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • use only the enclosed dosing cup designed for use with this product .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• keep dosing cup with product • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • mL = milliliter Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 4 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD7C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call toll free : 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Compare to Children ' s Mucinex ® Multi - Symptom Cold active ingredients ** Children ' s Mucus Multi - Symptom Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg / Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 100 / Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg / Nasal Decongestant Cold Relief For Ages 4 to 11 Years Relief of : • Stuffy Nose • Cough • Chest Congestion • Mucus Berry Flavor FL OZ ( mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Children ' s Mucinex ® Multi - Symtpom Cold .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND BOTTLE OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
MADE WITH PRIDE AND CARE FOR H - E - B ® , SAN ANTONIO , TX 78204 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
