DESCRIPTION Betamethasone dipropionate ointment contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has high corticosteroid activity and slight mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - Fluoro - 11 β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of betamethasone dipropionate ointment 0 . 05 % contains : 0 . 64 mg betamethasone dipropionate , USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in an ointment base consisting of mineral oil and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones , secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Eighty pediatric patients ages 6 months to 12 years , with atopic dermatitis , were enrolled in an open - label hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis safety study .
Betamethasone dipropionate ointment was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 58 % ( range 35 % to 99 % ) .
In 15 of 53 ( 28 % ) evaluable patients , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a pre - stimulated cortisol concentration less than or equal to 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol less than or equal to 18 mcg / dL and an increase of less than 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Follow - up testing 2 weeks after study completion available for 2 of the 15 patients demonstrated a normally responsive HPA axis .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate ointment indicate that it is in the high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate ointment is a high - potency corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate ointment is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in these preparations .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary - free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
In an open - label pediatric study of 53 evaluable patients , of the 15 patients who showed evidence of suppression , 2 patients were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate ointment , and both patients showed recovery of HPA axis function .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
5 .
Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with betamethasone dipropionate ointment without first talking to your physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : Urinary - free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in - vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in - vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 0 . 5 and 4 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison , respectively .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 0 . 03 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Betamethasone dipropionate ointment is not recommended in pediatric patients 12 years of age and younger ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
In an open - label study , 15 of 53 ( 28 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 6 months to 12 years old ) using betamethasone dipropionate ointment for treatment of atopic dermatitis demonstrated HPA axis suppression .
The proportion of patients with adrenal suppression in this study was progressively greater , the younger the age group ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Pharmacokinetics ) .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
The study described above supports this premise as adrenal suppression in 9 to 12 year olds , 6 to 8 year olds , 2 to 5 year olds , and 3 months to 1 year old was 17 % , 27 % , 29 % , and 36 % , respectively .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when betamethasone dipropionate ointment is used as recommended in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria .
Adverse reactions reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with betamethasone dipropionate ointment during a pediatric clinical study include signs of skin atrophy ( telangiectasia , thinness , shininess , bruising , loss of skin markings ) .
Cutaneous atrophy of the face occurred in 1 / 6 ( 17 % ) of infants , 2 / 9 ( 22 % ) of 2 to 5 year olds , and 2 / 6 ( 33 % ) of the 6 to 8 year olds .
Non - facial atrophy occurred in 15 % , 8 % , and 9 % of 2 to 5 year olds , 6 to 8 year olds , and 9 to 12 year olds , respectively .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Actavis at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate ointment 0 . 05 % to the affected skin areas once daily .
In some cases , a twice - daily dosage may be necessary .
Betamethasone dipropionate ointment is not to be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone dipropionate ointment , USP 0 . 05 % is available in : • 15 gram ( 0 . 53 oz ) NDC 0472 - 0381 - 15 • 45 gram ( 1 . 59 oz ) NDC 0472 - 0381 - 45 Store between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 7 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0472 - 0381 - 15 Betamethasone Dipropionate Ointment , USP 0 . 05 % Rx only For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use 15 g ( 0 . 53 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
