1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is indicated to close a clinically significant patent ductus arteriosus ( PDA ) in premature infants weighing between 500 and 1500 g , who are no more than 32 weeks gestational age when usual medical management ( e . g . , fluid restriction , diuretics , respiratory support , etc . ) is ineffective .
The clinical trial was conducted among infants with an asymptomatic PDA .
However , the consequences beyond 8 weeks after treatment have not been evaluated ; therefore , treatment should be reserved for infants with clear evidence of a clinically significant PDA .
Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug indicated to close a clinically significant patent ductus arteriosus ( PDA ) in premature infants weighing between 500 and 1500 g , who are no more than 32 weeks gestational age when usual medical management is ineffective .
The clinical trial was conducted among infants with an asymptomatic PDA .
However , the consequences beyond 8 weeks after treatment have not been evaluated ; therefore , treatment should be reserved for infants with clear evidence of a clinically significant PDA .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • A course of therapy is three doses administered I . V . ( 2 . 1 ) • An initial dose of 10 mg / kg ( based on birth weight ) is followed by two doses of 5 mg / kg each , after 24 and 48 hours ( 2 . 1 ) • Do not administer if anuria or marked oliguria ( < 0 . 6 mL / kg / hr ) is evident at the scheduled time of the second or third dose ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose A course of therapy is three doses of Ibuprofen Lysine Injection administered intravenously ( administration via an umbilical arterial line has not been evaluated ) .
An initial dose of 10 mg per kilogram is followed by two doses of 5 mg per kilogram each , after 24 and 48 hours .
All doses should be based on birth weight .
If anuria or marked oliguria ( urinary output < 0 . 6 mL / kg / hr ) is evident at the scheduled time of the second or third dose of Ibuprofen Lysine Injection , no additional dosage should be given until laboratory studies indicate that renal function has returned to normal .
If the ductus arteriosus closes or is significantly reduced in size after completion of the first course of Ibuprofen Lysine Injection , no further doses are necessary .
If during continued medical management the ductus arteriosus fails to close or reopens , then a second course of Ibuprofen Lysine Injection , alternative pharmacological therapy , or surgery may be necessary .
2 . 2 Directions for Use For intravenous administration only .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use Ibuprofen Lysine Injection if particulate matter is observed .
After the first withdrawal from the vial , any solution remaining must be discarded because Ibuprofen Lysine Injection contains no preservative .
For administration , Ibuprofen Lysine Injection should be diluted to an appropriate volume with dextrose or saline .
Ibuprofen Lysine Injection should be prepared for infusion and administered within 30 minutes of preparation and infused continuously over a period of 15 minutes .
The drug should be administered via the IV port that is nearest the insertion site .
After the first withdrawal from the vial , any solution remaining must be discarded because Ibuprofen Lysine Injection contains no preservative .
Since Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is potentially irritating to tissues , it should be administered carefully to avoid extravasation .
Ibuprofen Lysine Injection should not be simultaneously administered in the same intravenous line with Total Parenteral Nutrition ( TPN ) .
If necessary , TPN should be interrupted for a 15 - minute period prior to and after drug administration .
Line patency should be maintained by using dextrose or saline .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) as a clear sterile preservative - free solution of the L - lysine salt of ibuprofen in a 2 mL single - use vial .
• 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) as a clear sterile preservative - free solution of the L - lysine salt of ibuprofen in a 2 mL single - use vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is contraindicated in : • Preterm infants with proven or suspected infection that is untreated ; • Preterm infants with congenital heart disease in whom patency of the PDA is necessary for satisfactory pulmonary or systemic blood flow ( e . g . , pulmonary atresia , severe tetralogy of Fallot , severe coarctation of the aorta ) ; • Preterm infants who are bleeding , especially those with active intracranial hemorrhage or gastrointestinal bleeding ; • Preterm infants with thrombocytopenia ; • Preterm infants with coagulation defects ; • Preterm infants with or who are suspected of having necrotizing enterocolitis ; • Preterm infants with significant impairment of renal function .
Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is contraindicated in preterm infants : • With proven or suspected infection that is untreated ( 4 ) • With congenital heart disease in whom patency of the PDA is necessary for satisfactory pulmonary or systemic blood flow ( 4 ) • With impaired renal function ( 4 ) • With thrombocytopenia , coagulation defects or who are bleeding ( 4 ) • With or who are suspected of having necrotizing enterocolitis ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Ibuprofen Lysine Injection has not been assessed for neurodevelopmental outcome and growth ( 5 . 1 ) • Ibuprofen Lysine Injection may alter the usual signs of infection ( 5 . 2 ) • Ibuprofen Lysine Injection can inhibit platelet aggregation , and has been shown to prolong bleeding time in normal adult subjects ( 5 . 3 ) • Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding - sites ( 5 . 4 ) • Ibuprofen Lysine Injection should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 General There are no long - term evaluations of the infants treated with ibuprofen at durations greater than the 36 weeks post - conceptual age observation period .
Ibuprofen ’ s effects on neurodevelopmental outcome and growth as well as disease processes associated with prematurity ( such as retinopathy of prematurity and chronic lung disease ) have not been assessed .
5 . 2 Infection Ibuprofen Lysine Injection may alter the usual signs of infection .
The physician must be continually on the alert and should use the drug with extra care in the presence of controlled infection and in infants at risk of infection .
5 . 3 Platelet Aggregation Ibuprofen Lysine Injection , like other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents , can inhibit platelet aggregation .
Preterm infants should be observed for signs of bleeding .
Ibuprofen has been shown to prolong bleeding time ( but within the normal range ) in normal adult subjects .
This effect may be exaggerated in patients with underlying hemostatic defects ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
5 . 4 Bilirubin Displacement Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding - sites ; therefore , it should be used with caution in patients with elevated total bilirubin .
5 . 5 Administration Ibuprofen Lysine Injection should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage , as solution may be irritating to tissue .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are sepsis , anemia , intraventricular bleeding , apnea , gastrointestinal disorders , impaired renal function , respiratory infection , skin lesions , hypoglycemia , hypocalcemia , respiratory failure .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB Inc . at 1 - 866 - 390 - 4411 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The most frequently reported adverse events with Ibuprofen Lysine Injection were as shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Events within 30 Days of Therapy in the Multicenter Study [ 1 ] % Incidence Adverse Event Ibuprofen Lysine Injection Placebo Sepsis 43 37 Anemia 32 25 Total Bleeding [ 2 ] 32 29 Intraventricular Hemorrhage , Grades 1 / 2 15 13 Intraventricular Hemorrhage , Grades 3 / 4 15 10 Other Bleeding 6 13 Intraventricular Hemorrhage , All Grades 29 24 Apnea 28 26 Gastrointestinal Disorders non - Necrotizing Enterocolitis 22 18 Total Renal Events null 21 15 Renal Failure 1 3 Renal Insufficiency , Impairment 6 4 Urine Output Reduced 3 1 Blood Creatinine Increased 3 1 Blood Urea Increased with Hematuria 1 1 Blood Urea Increased 7 4 Respiratory Infection 19 13 Skin Lesion / Irritation 16 6 Hypoglycemia 12 6 Hypocalcemia 12 9 Respiratory Failure 10 4 Urinary Tract Infection 9 4 Adrenal Insufficiency 7 1 Hypernatremia 7 4 Edema 4 0 Atelectasis 4 1 [ 1 ] Within 30 days of therapy , with an event rate greater on Ibuprofen Lysine Injection than on placebo , and greater than 2 events on Ibuprofen Lysine Injection ..
[ 2 ] A given subject may have experienced more than one specific event within these adverse event categories .
Only the most severe grade of IVH counted for a given subject .
6 . 2 Renal Function Compared to placebo , there was a small decrease in urinary output in the ibuprofen group on days 2 - 6 of life , with a compensatory increase in urine output on day 9 .
In other studies , adverse events classified as renal insufficiency including oliguria , elevated BUN , elevated creatinine , or renal failure were reported in ibuprofen treated infants .
6 . 3 Additional Adverse Events The adverse events reported in the multicenter study and of unknown association include tachycardia , cardiac failure , abdominal distension , gastroesophageal reflux , gastritis , ileus , inguinal hernia , injection site reactions , cholestasis , various infections , feeding problems , convulsions , jaundice , hypotension , and various laboratory abnormalities including neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and hyperglycemia .
6 . 4 Post - Marketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency , or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous post - marketing reports or published literature : gastrointestinal perforation , necrotizing enterocolitis , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , and pulmonary hypertension .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics : Ibuprofen may reduce the effect of diuretics ; diuretics can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity of NSAIDs in dehydrated patients .
Monitor renal function in patients receiving concomitant diuretics .
• Amikacin : Ibuprofen may decrease the clearance of amikacin .
Diuretics : Increased risk of renal dysfunction .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have only been established in premature infants .
10 OVERDOSAGE The following signs and symptoms have occurred in individuals ( not necessarily in premature infants ) following an overdose of oral ibuprofen : breathing difficulties , coma , drowsiness , irregular heartbeat , kidney failure , low blood pressure , seizures , and vomiting .
There are no specific measures to treat acute overdosage with Ibuprofen Lysine Injection .
The patient should be followed for several days because gastrointestinal ulceration and hemorrhage may occur .
11 DESCRIPTION Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is a clear sterile preservative - free solution of the L - lysine salt of ( ± ) - ibuprofen which is the active ingredient .
( ± ) - Ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent ( NSAID ) .
L - lysine is used to create a water - soluble drug product salt suitable for intravenous administration .
Each mL of Ibuprofen Lysine Injection contains 17 . 1 mg of ibuprofen lysine ( equivalent to 10 mg of ( ± ) - ibuprofen ) in Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is adjusted to 7 . 0 with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is designated chemically as α - methyl - 4 - ( 2 - methyl propyl ) benzeneacetic acid lysine salt .
Its molecular weight is 352 . 48 .
Its empirical formula is C19H32N2O4 .
It occurs as a white crystalline solid which is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action through which ibuprofen causes closure of a patent ductus arteriosus ( PDA ) in neonates is not known .
In adults , ibuprofen is an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacokinetics and Bioavailability Studies The pharmacokinetic data were obtained from 54 Ibuprofen Lysine Injection - treated premature infants included in a double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , multicenter study .
Infants were less than 30 weeks gestational age , weighed between 500 and 1000 g , and exhibited asymptomatic PDA with evidence of echocardiographic documentation of ductal shunting .
Dosing was initially 10 mg / kg followed by 5 mg / kg at 24 and 48 hours .
The population average clearance and volume of distribution values of racemic ibuprofen for premature infants at birth were 3 mL / kg / h and 320 mL / kg , respectively .
Clearance increased rapidly with post - natal age ( an average increase of approximately 0 . 5 mL / kg / h per day ) .
Inter - individual variability in clearance and volume of distribution were 55 % and 14 % , respectively .
In general , the half - life in infants is more than 10 times longer than in adults .
The metabolism and excretion of ibuprofen in premature infants have not been studied .
In adults , renal elimination of unchanged ibuprofen accounts for only 10 - 15 % of the dose .
The excretion of ibuprofen and metabolites occurs rapidly in both urine and feces .
Approximately 80 % of the dose administered orally is recovered in urine as hydroxyl and carboxyl metabolites , respectively , as a mixture of conjugated and unconjugated forms .
Ibuprofen is eliminated primarily by metabolism in the liver where CYP2C9 mediates the 2 - and 3 - hydroxylations of R - and S - ibuprofen .
Ibuprofen and its metabolites are further conjugated to acyl glucuronides .
In neonates , renal function and the enzymes associated with drug metabolism are underdeveloped at birth and substantially increase in the days after birth .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a double - blind , multicenter clinical study premature infants of birth weight between 500 and 1000 g , less than 30 weeks post - conceptional age , and with echocardiographic evidence of a PDA were randomized to placebo or Ibuprofen Lysine Injection .
These infants were asymptomatic from their PDA at the time of enrollment .
The primary efficacy parameter was the need for rescue therapy ( indomethacin , open - label ibuprofen , or surgery ) to treat a hemodynamically significant PDA by study day 14 .
An infant was rescued if there was clinical evidence of a hemodynamically significant PDA that was echocardiographically confirmed .
A hemodynamically significant PDA was defined by three of the following five criteria ― bounding pulse , hyperdynamic precordium , pulmonary edema , increased cardiac silhouette , or systolic murmur ― or hemodynamically significant ductus as determined by a neonatologist .
One hundred and thirty - six premature infants received either placebo or Ibuprofen Lysine Injection ( 10 mg / kg on the first dose and 5 mg / kg at 24 and 48 hours ) .
Mean birth age was 1 . 5 days ( range : 4 . 6 – 73 . 0 hours ) , mean gestational age was 26 weeks ( range : 23 – 30 weeks ) , and mean weight was 798 g ( range : 530 – 1015 g ) .
All infants had a documented PDA with evidence of ductal shunting .
As shown in Table 2 , 25 % of infants on Ibuprofen Lysine Injection required rescue therapy versus 48 % of infants on placebo ( p = 0 . 003 from logistic regression controlling for site ) .
Table 2 .
Summary of Efficacy Results , n ( % ) Ibuprofen Lysine Injection N = 68 Placebo N = 68 Required rescue through study day 14 Total 17 ( 25 ) 33 ( 48 ) By age at treatment Birth to < 24 hours 3 / 14 ( 21 ) 8 / 16 ( 50 ) 24 - 48 hours 9 / 32 ( 28 ) 16 / 37 ( 43 ) > 48 hours 5 / 22 ( 23 ) 9 / 15 ( 60 ) Echocardiographically proven PDA prior to rescue 17 ( 100 ) 32 ( 97 ) Reasons for Rescue Hemodynamically significant PDA per neonatologist 14 ( 82 ) 25 ( 76 ) Bounding pulse 6 ( 35 ) 12 ( 36 ) Systolic murmur 6 ( 35 ) 15 ( 45 ) Pulmonary Edema 3 ( 18 ) 5 ( 15 ) Hyperdynamic precordium 2 ( 12 ) 3 ( 9 ) Increased cardiac silhouette 1 ( 6 ) 5 ( 15 ) Of the infants requiring rescue within the first 14 days after the first dose of study drug , no statistically significant difference was observed between the Ibuprofen Lysine Injection and placebo groups for mean age at start of first rescue treatment ( 8 . 7 days , range 4 - 15 days , for the Ibuprofen Lysine Injection group and 6 . 9 days , range 2 - 15 days , for the placebo group ) .
The groups were similar in the number of deaths by day 14 , the number of patients on a ventilator or requiring oxygenation at day 1 , 4 and 14 , the number of patients requiring surgical ligation of their PDA ( 12 % ) , the number of cases of Pulmonary Hemorrhage and Pulmonary Hypertension by day 14 , and Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia at day 28 .
In addition , no significant differences were noted in the incidences of Stage 2 and 3 Necrotizing Enterocolitis , Grades 3 and 4 Intraventricular Hemorrhage , Periventricular Leukomalacia and Retinopathy of Prematurity between groups as determined at 36 ± 1 weeks adjusted gestational age .
Two supportive studies also determined that ibuprofen , either prophylactically ( n = 433 , weight range : 400 – 2165 g ) or as treatment ( n = 210 , weight range : 400 – 2370 g ) , was superior to placebo ( or no treatment ) in preventing the need for rescue therapy for a symptomatic PDA .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is dispensed in clear plastic single - use vials , each containing 2 mL of sterile solution ( NDC 39822 - 1030 - 1 ) .
The solution is not buffered and contains no preservatives .
Each milliliter contains 17 . 1 mg / mL ( ± ) - ibuprofen L - lysine [ equivalent to 10 mg / mL ( ± ) - ibuprofen ] dissolved in Water for Injection , USP .
Ibuprofen Lysine Injection is supplied in a carton containing 3 single - use vials ( NDC 39822 - 1030 - 2 ) .
Storage and Handling Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Store vials in carton until contents have been used .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Infection Ibuprofen Lysine Injection may alter signs of infection .
Patients ’ caregivers should be informed that the infant will be carefully monitored for any signs of infection .
Platelet Aggregation Patients ’ caregivers should be informed that like other NSAIDS , Ibuprofen Lysine Injection can inhibit clot formation therefore their infant will be monitored for any signs of bleeding .
Administration Patients ’ caregivers should be informed that the infants ’ skin and tissues will be monitored as leakage from administration may be irritating to tissue .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 [ MULTIMEDIA ] IBUL - PI - 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 39822 - 1030 - 1 3 x 2 mL Single Use Vials Ibuprofen Lysine Injection 10 mg / mL Sterile Solution for IV Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 1030 - 2 3 x 2 mL Single Use Vials Ibuprofen Lysine Injection 10 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains : Ibuprofen 10 mg ( as ibuprofen lysine ) in Water for Injection , USP .
Dilute to an appropriate volume with dextrose or saline .
Please refer to the Package Insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) .
Store vials in carton until use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
