active Ingrediets ( % ) Benzocaine 10 % Purpose Oral Pain Reliever Uses For temporary relief of pain due to toothaches and sure gums .
methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a seious condition that must be treated promtly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occurred even if you have used this product before .
Stop used and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid hear rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthethics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetic .
If skin reacction ocurrs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning : if sore throat is severe , persists for more that two days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persist or worsens , see your dentist dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use : • more than directed • for teething • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • on child under 12 years of age unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor When using this product : • Avoid contact with eyes • do not exceed recomended dosage • fever and nasal congestion are not symptoms of toothache or sore gums and may indicate the presence of infection .
If these symptoms do not go away , advise your dentist or doctor .
Stop use and ask dentist or doctor if : • Sore mouth symptoms do not get better in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain , or redness do not go away • Redness or swelling is presented If pregnant or breast - feeeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children , In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : ( For adults and children 12 years or older ) • wash hands • Remove cap and cut off tip dispenser • use your finger or cotton applicator ( swab ) to apply a small ( pea - size ) amount of Anestenka to the affected area • Apply Anestenka to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by the demtist or doctor • For children 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor Other information : Store at room temperature : 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if tip is cut prior to opening .
Do not use for toothache as more than a temporary expedient until a dentidst can be contacted .
Inactive Ingredients : methylparaben , propylene glycol , propyparaben Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 560 - 5223 weekdays 9 am - 4 pm EST / www .
menperdistributors . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
