Drug Facts ACTIVE INGREDIENT Hydrocortisone USP 1 % PURPOSE Steroid Cream USES • For relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to : • Eczema • Insect bites • Soaps and detergents • Cosmetics • Jewelry • Seborrheic dermatitis • Psoriasis • Poison ivy , oak or sumac • For external genital , feminine and anal itching • Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor WARNINGS For external use only Do not use • In children under 2 years of age • If you have a vaginal discharge • For the treatment of diaper rash Ask a doctor before use if you have • External genital or feminine itching • External anal itching • Bleeding When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes • Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor • If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , stop use and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product , unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center .
DIRECTIONS For minor skin irritations and rashes , adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
For external anal itching : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before application of this product • Children : under 12 years of age , consult a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal .
• Store at room temperature • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiration Date INACTIVE INGREDIENT Paraffin wax , Microwax , Light liquid paraffin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 572 - 6632 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT Helps relieve itching from eczema : √ Psoriasis √ Seborrheic dermatitis √ insect bites √ Skin irritation Manufactured by : Global Pharma Healthcare Pvt . Ltd . , A - 9 , SIDCO Pharmaceutical Complex , Alathur - 603 110 - INDIA .
www . global - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
