[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BOXED WARNING WARNING : Fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin , are associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages .
This risk is further increased in older patients usually over 60 years of age , in patients taking corticosteroid drugs , and in patients with kidney , heart or lung transplants ( See WARNINGS ) .
Fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin , may exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia gravis .
Avoid ciprofloxacin in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis ( see WARNINGS ) .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and other antibacterial drugs , ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Ciprofloxacin [ 1 ] extended - release tablets contains ciprofloxacin , a synthetic broad - spectrum antimicrobial agent for oral administration .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are coated , bilayer tablets consisting of an immediate - release layer and matrix type controlled - release layer .
The tablets contain a combination of two types of ciprofloxacin drug substance , ciprofloxacin hydrochloride , USP and ciprofloxacin , USP .
Ciprofloxacin hydrochloride is 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 7 - ( 1 - piperazinyl ) - 3 - quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride .
It is provided as monohydrate .
The empirical formula of the monohydrate is C17H18FN3O3 • HCl • H2O and its molecular weight is 385 . 8 .
The drug substance is a faintly yellowish to light yellow crystalline substance .
The chemical structure of the monohydrate is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ciprofloxacin , USP is 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 7 - ( 1 - piperazinyl ) - 3 - quinolinecarboxylic acid .
As the anhydrous form , its empirical formula is C17H18FN3O3 and its molecular weight is 331 . 34 .
It is a pale yellowish to light yellow crystalline substance and its chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are available in 500 mg and 1000 mg ( ciprofloxacin equivalent ) tablet strength .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are white to off white , film coated , oblong shaped , biconvex tablets .
Each ciprofloxacin extended - release 500 mg tablet contains 500 mg of ciprofloxacin as ciprofloxacin HCl ( 287 . 5 mg , calculated as ciprofloxacin on anhydrous basis ) and ciprofloxacin ( 212 . 6 mg , calculated on the dried basis ) Each ciprofloxacin extended - release 1000 mg tablet contains 1000 mg of ciprofloxacin as ciprofloxacin HCl ( 574 . 9 mg , calculated as ciprofloxacin on anhydrous basis ) and ciprofloxacin ( 425 . 2 mg , calculated on the dried basis ) .
The inactive ingredients are crospovidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , succinic acid and titanium dioxide [ 1 ] as ciprofloxacin and ciprofloxacin hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Absorption Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are formulated to release drug at a slower rate compared to immediate - release tablets .
Approximately 35 % of the dose is contained within an immediate - release component , while the remaining 65 % is contained in a slow - release matrix .
Maximum plasma ciprofloxacin concentrations are attained between 1 and 4 hours after dosing with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
In comparison to the 250 mg and 500 mg ciprofloxacin immediate - release BID treatment , the Cmax of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets 500 mg and 1000 mg once daily are higher than the corresponding BID doses , while the AUCs over 24 hours are equivalent .
The following table compares the pharmacokinetic parameters obtained at steady state for these four treatment regimens ( 500 mg QD ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets versus 250 mg BID ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets and 1000 mg QD ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets versus 500 mg BID ciprofloxacin immediate - release ) .
Ciprofloxacin Pharmacokinetics ( Mean ± SD ) Following Ciprofloxacin Tablets and Ciprofloxacin Extended - Release Tablets Administration Cmax ( mg / L ) AUC0 - 24 h ( mg ∙ h / L ) T1 / 2 ( hr ) Tmax ( hr ) [ 1 ] Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets 500 mg QD 1 . 59 ± 0 . 43 7 . 97 ± 1 . 87 6 . 6 ± 1 . 4 1 . 5 ( 1 . 0 – 2 . 5 ) Ciprofloxacin tablets 250 mg BID 1 . 14 ± 0 . 23 8 . 25 ± 2 . 15 4 . 8 ± 0 . 6 1 . 0 ( 0 . 5 – 2 . 5 ) Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets 1000 mg QD 3 . 11 ± 1 . 08 16 . 83 ± 5 . 65 6 . 31 ± 0 . 72 2 . 0 ( 1 – 4 ) Ciprofloxacin tablets 500 mg BID 2 . 06 ± 0 . 41 17 . 04 ± 4 . 79 5 . 66 ± 0 . 89 2 . 0 ( 0 . 5 – 3 . 5 ) [ 1 ] median ( range ) Results of the pharmacokinetic studies demonstrate that ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be administered with or without food ( e . g . high - fat and low - fat meals or under fasted conditions ) .
Distribution The volume of distribution calculated for intravenous ciprofloxacin is approximately 2 . 1 – 2 . 7 L / kg .
Studies with the oral and intravenous forms of ciprofloxacin have demonstrated penetration of ciprofloxacin into a variety of tissues .
The binding of ciprofloxacin to serum proteins is 20 % to 40 % , which is not likely to be high enough to cause significant protein binding interactions with other drugs .
Following administration of a single dose of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , ciprofloxacin concentrations in urine collected up to 4 hours after dosing averaged over 300 mg / L for both the 500 mg and 1000 mg tablets ; in urine excreted from 12 to 24 hours after dosing , ciprofloxacin concentration averaged 27 mg / L for the 500 mg tablet , and 58 mg / L for the 1000 mg tablet .
Metabolism Four metabolites of ciprofloxacin were identified in human urine .
The metabolites have antimicrobial activity , but are less active than unchanged ciprofloxacin .
The primary metabolites are oxociprofloxacin ( M3 ) and sulfociprofloxacin ( M2 ) , each accounting for roughly 3 % to 8 % of the total dose .
Other minor metabolites are desethylene ciprofloxacin ( M1 ) , and formylciprofloxacin ( M4 ) .
The relative proportion of drug and metabolite in serum corresponds to the composition found in urine .
Excretion of these metabolites was essentially complete by 24 hours after dosing .
Ciprofloxacin is an inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 1A2 ( CYP1A2 ) mediated metabolism .
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 results in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and could lead to clinically significant adverse events of the coadministered drug ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ; WARNINGS ; PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Elimination The elimination kinetics of ciprofloxacin are similar for the immediate - release and the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablet .
In studies comparing the ciprofloxacin extended - release and immediate - release ciprofloxacin , approximately 35 % of an orally administered dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug for both formulations .
The urinary excretion of ciprofloxacin is virtually complete within 24 hours after dosing .
The renal clearance of ciprofloxacin , which is approximately 300 mL / minute , exceeds the normal glomerular filtration rate of 120 mL / minute .
Thus , active tubular secretion would seem to play a significant role in its elimination .
Co - administration of probenecid with immediate - release ciprofloxacin results in about a 50 % reduction in the ciprofloxacin renal clearance and a 50 % increase in its concentration in the systemic circulation .
Although bile concentrations of ciprofloxacin are several fold higher than serum concentrations after oral dosing with the immediate - release tablet , only a small amount of the dose administered is recovered from the bile as unchanged drug .
An additional 1 % to 2 % of the dose is recovered from the bile in the form of metabolites .
Approximately 20 % to 35 % of an oral dose of immediate - release ciprofloxacin is recovered from the feces within 5 days after dosing .
This may arise from either biliary clearance or transintestinal elimination .
Special Populations Pharmacokinetic studies of the immediate - release oral tablet ( single dose ) and intravenous ( single and multiple dose ) forms of ciprofloxacin indicate that plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin are higher in elderly subjects ( > 65 years ) as compared to young adults .
Cmax is increased 16 % to 40 % , and mean AUC is increased approximately 30 % , which can be at least partially attributed to decreased renal clearance in the elderly .
Elimination half - life is only slightly ( ~ 20 % ) prolonged in the elderly .
These differences are not considered clinically significant .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use . )
In patients with reduced renal function , the half - life of ciprofloxacin is slightly prolonged .
No dose adjustment is required for patients with uncomplicated urinary tract infections receiving 500 mg ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
For complicated urinary tract infection and acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis , where 1000 mg is the appropriate dose , the dosage of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be reduced to ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets 500 mg q24h in patients with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In studies in patients with stable chronic cirrhosis , no significant changes in ciprofloxacin pharmacokinetics have been observed .
The kinetics of ciprofloxacin in patients with acute hepatic insufficiency , however , have not been fully elucidated .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Drug - Drug Interactions Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Previous studies with immediate - release ciprofloxacin have shown that concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline decreases the clearance of theophylline resulting in elevated serum theophylline levels and increased risk of a patient developing CNS or other adverse reactions .
Ciprofloxacin also decreases caffeine clearance and inhibits the formation of paraxanthine after caffeine administration .
Absorption of ciprofloxacin is significantly reduced by concomitant administration of multivalent cation - containing products such as magnesium / aluminum antacids , sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , or products containing calcium , iron , or zinc .
( See WARNINGS : PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and Information for Patients , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Antacids When ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets given as a single 1000 mg dose was administered two hours before , or four hours after a magnesium / aluminum - containing antacid ( 900 mg aluminum hydroxide and 600 mg magnesium hydroxide as a single oral dose ) to 18 healthy volunteers , there was a 4 % and 19 % reduction , respectively , in the mean Cmax of ciprofloxacin .
The reduction in the mean AUC was 24 % and 26 % , respectively .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be administered at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after antacids containing magnesium or aluminum , as well as sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , other highly buffered drugs , metal cations such as iron , and multivitamin preparations with zinc .
Although ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be taken with meals that include milk , concomitant administration with dairy products or with calcium - fortified juices alone should be avoided , since decreased absorption is possible .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients and Drug Interactions , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Omeprazole When ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets was administered as a single 1000 mg dose concomitantly with omeprazole ( 40 mg once daily for three days ) to 18 healthy volunteers , the mean AUC and Cmax of ciprofloxacin were reduced by 20 % and 23 % , respectively .
The clinical significance of this interaction has not been determined .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action The bactericidal action of ciprofloxacin results from inhibition of topoisomerase II ( DNA gyrase ) and topoisomerase IV ( both Type II topoisomerases ) , which are required for bacterial DNA replication , transcription , repair , and recombination .
Drug ResistanceThe mechanism of action of fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin , is different from that of other antimicrobial agents such as beta - lactams , macrolides , tetracyclines , or aminoglycosides ; therefore , microorganisms resistant to these classes of drugs may be susceptible to ciprofloxacin .
There is no known cross - resistance between ciprofloxacin and other classes of antimicrobials .
Resistance to ciprofloxacin in vitro develops slowly ( multiple - step mutation ) .
Resistance to ciprofloxacin due to spontaneous mutations occurs at a general frequency of between < 10 - 9 to 1x10 - 6 .
Activity in vitro and in vivo Ciprofloxacin has in vitro activity against a wide range of gram - negative and gram - positive microorganisms .
Ciprofloxacin is slightly less active when tested at acidic pH . The inoculum size has little effect when tested in vitro .
The minimal bactericidal concentration ( MBC ) generally does not exceed the minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) by more than a factor of 2 .
Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section of the package insert for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets ..
Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Enterococcus faecalis ( Many strains are only moderately susceptible . )
Staphylococcus saprophyticus Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms Escherichia coli Klebsiella pneumoniae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Ciprofloxacin exhibits in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of 1 µg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and effectiveness of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms Citrobacter koseri Morganella morganii Citrobacter freundii Proteus vulgaris Edwardsiella tarda Providencia rettgeri Enterobacter aerogenes Providencia stuartii Enterobacter cloacae Serratia marcescens Klebsiella oxytoca Susceptibility Tests • Dilution Techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method1 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of ciprofloxacin .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the criteria outlined in Table 1 .
• Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standard ized procedure2 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 5 - µg ciprofloxacin to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to ciprofloxacin .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 5 - µg ciprofloxacin disk should be interpreted according to the criteria outlined in Table 1 .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk text with the MIC for ciprofloxacin .
Table 1 : Susceptibility Interpretive Criteria for Ciprofloxacin Species MIC ( μg / mL ) Zone Diameter ( mm ) S I R S I R Enterobacteriacae ≤ 1 2 ≥ 4 ≥ 21 16 - 20 ≤ 15 Enterococcus faecalis ≤ 1 2 ≥ 4 ≥ 21 16 - 20 ≤ 15 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ≤ 1 2 ≥ 4 ≥ 21 16 - 20 ≤ 15 Staphylococcus saprophyticus ≤ 1 2 ≥ 4 ≥ 21 16 - 20 ≤ 15 S = Susceptible , I = Intermediate , and R = Resistant .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
• Quality Control : Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard ciprofloxacin powder should provide the following MIC values according to criteria outlined in Table 2 .
For the diffusion technique , the 5 - μg ciprofloxacin disk should provide the zone diameters outlined in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Quality Control for Susceptibility Testing Strains MIC range ( μg / mL ) Zone Diameter ( mm ) Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212 0 . 25 - 2 - Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 0 . 004 - 0 . 015 30 - 40 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 0 . 25 - 1 . 0 25 - 33 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC29212 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 - Staphylococcus aureus ATCC25923 - 22 - 30 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are indicated only for the treatment of urinary tract infections , including acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis , caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms as listed below .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets are not interchangeable .
Please see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for specific recommendations .
Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections ( Acute Cystitis ) caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Enterococcus faecalis , or Staphylococcus saprophyticus [ 1 ] .
Complicated Urinary Tract Infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterococcus faecalis , Proteus mirabilis , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa null .
Acute Uncomplicated Pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli .
THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF CIPROFLOXACIN EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS IN TREATING INFECTIONS OTHER THAN URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED .
Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing infection and to determine their susceptibility to ciprofloxacin .
Therapy with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be initiated before results of these tests are known ; once results become available appropriate therapy should be continued .
Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information not only on the therapeutic effect of the antimicrobial agent but also on the possible emergence of bacterial resistance .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and other antibacterial drugs , ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
[ 1 ] Treatment of infections due to this organism in the organ system was studied in fewer than 10 patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin , any member of the quinolone class of antimicrobial agents , or any of the product components .
Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
WARNINGS Tendinopathy and Tendon Rupture : Fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , are associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages .
This adverse reaction most frequently involves the Achilles tendon , and rupture of the Achilles tendon may require surgical repair .
Tendinitis and tendon rupture in the rotator cuff ( the shoulder ) , the hand , the biceps , the thumb , and other tendon sites have also been reported .
The risk of developing fluoroquinolone - associated tendinitis and tendon rupture is further increased in older patients usually over 60 years of age , in patients taking corticosteroid drugs , and in patients with kidney , heart or lung transplants .
Factors , in addition to age and corticosteroid use , that may independently increase the risk of tendon rupture include strenuous physical activity , renal failure , and previous tendon disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis .
Tendinitis and tendon rupture have also occurred in patients taking fluoroquinolones who do not have the above risk factors .
Tendon rupture can occur during or after completion of therapy ; cases occurring up to several months after completion of therapy have been reported .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be discontinued if the patient experiences pain , swelling , inflammation or rupture of a tendon .
Patients should be advised to rest at the first sign of tendinitis or tendon rupture , and to contact their healthcare provider regarding changing to a non - quinolone antimicrobial drug .
Exacerbation of Myasthenia Gravis : Fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , have neuromuscular blocking activity and may exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia gravis .
Postmarketing serious adverse events , including deaths and requirement for ventilatory support , have been associated with fluoroquinolone use in persons with myasthenia gravis .
Avoid ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patientsand ADVERSEREACTIONS : Post - Marketing Adverse Event Reports ) .
THE SAFETY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF CIPROFLOXACIN EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS AND ADOLESCENTS ( UNDER THE AGE OF 18 YEARS ) , PREGNANT WOMEN , AND NURSING WOMEN HAVE NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use , Pregnancy , and Nursing Motherssubsections . )
The oral administration of ciprofloxacin caused lameness in immature dogs .
Histopathological examination of the weight - bearing joints of these dogs revealed permanent lesions of the cartilage .
Related quinolone - class drugs also produce erosions of cartilage of weight - bearing joints and other signs of arthropathy in immature animals of various species .
( See ANIMALPHARMACOLOGY . )
Cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) Ciprofloxacin is an inhibitor of the hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme pathway .
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin and other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 ( e . g . theophylline , methylxanthines , tizanidine ) results in increased plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug and could lead to clinically significant pharmacodynamic side effects of the coadministered drug .
Convulsions , increased intracranial pressure , and toxic psychosis have been reported in patients receiving quinolones , including ciprofloxacin .
Ciprofloxacin may also cause central nervous system ( CNS ) events including : dizziness , confusion , tremors , hallucinations , depression , and , rarely , suicidal thoughts or acts .
These reactions may occur following the first dose .
If these reactions occur in patients receiving ciprofloxacin , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate measures instituted .
As with all quinolones , ciprofloxacin should be used with caution in patients with known or suspected CNS disorders that may predispose to seizures or lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . severe cerebral arteriosclerosis , epilepsy ) , or in the presence of other risk factors that may predispose to seizures or lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . certain drug therapy , renal dysfunction ) .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General , Information for Patients , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
SERIOUS AND FATAL REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS RECEIVING CONCURRENT ADMINISTRATION OF CIPROFLOXACIN AND THEOPHYLLINE .
These reactions have included cardiac arrest , seizure , status epilepticus , and respiratory failure .
Although similar serious adverse effects have been reported in patients receiving theophylline alone , the possibility that these reactions may be potentiated by ciprofloxacin cannot be eliminated .
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , serum levels of theophylline should be monitored and dosage adjustments made as appropriate .
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions , some following the first dose , have been reported in patients receiving quinolone therapy .
Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse , loss of consciousness , tingling , pharyngeal or facial edema , dyspnea , urticaria , and itching .
Only a few patients had a history of hypersensitivity reactions .
Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment with epinephrine .
Oxygen , intravenous steroids , and airway management , including intubation , should be administered as indicated .
Other serious and sometimes fatal events , some due to hypersensitivity , and some due to uncertain etiology , have been reported rarely in patients receiving therapy with quinolones , including ciprofloxacin .
These events may be severe and generally occur following the administration of multiple doses .
Clinical manifestations may include one or more of the following : • fever , rash , or severe dermatologic reactions ( e . g . , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) ; • vasculitis ; arthralgia ; myalgia ; serum sickness ; • allergic pneumonitis ; • interstitial nephritis ; acute renal insufficiency or failure ; • hepatitis ; jaundice ; acute hepatic necrosis or failure ; • anemia , including hemolytic and aplastic ; thrombocytopenia , including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ; leukopenia ; agranulocytosis ; pancytopenia ; and / or other hematologic abnormalities .
The drug should be discontinued immediately at the first appearance of a skin rash , jaundice , or any other sign of hypersensitivity and supportive measures instituted ( See PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including CIPRO , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Peripheral Neuropathy Rare cases of sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy affecting small and / or large axons resulting in paresthesias , hypoesthesias , dysesthesias and weakness have been reported in patients receiving quinolones , including ciprofloxacin .
Ciprofloxacin should be discontinued if the patient experiences symptoms of neuropathy including pain , burning , tingling , numbness , and / or weakness , or is found to have deficits in light touch , pain , temperature , position sense , vibratory sensation , and / or motor strength in order to prevent the development of an irreversible condition .
PRECAUTIONS General Crystals of ciprofloxacin have been observed rarely in the urine of human subjects but more frequently in the urine of laboratory animals , which is usually alkaline .
( See ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
Crystalluria related to ciprofloxacin has been reported only rarely in humans because human urine is usually acidic .
Alkalinity of the urine should be avoided in patients receiving ciprofloxacin .
Patients should be well hydrated to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine .
Quinolones , including ciprofloxacin , may also cause central nervous system ( CNS ) events , including : nervousness , agitation , insomnia , anxiety , nightmares or paranoia .
( See WARNINGS , Information for Patients , and Drug Interactions . )
Photosensitivity / Phototoxicity Moderate to severe photosensitivity / phototoxicity reactions , the latter of which may manifest as exaggerated sunburn reactions ( e . g . , burning , erythema , exudation , vesicles , blistering , edema ) involving areas exposed to light ( typically the face , " V " area of the neck , extensor surfaces of the forearms , dorsa of the hands ) , can be associated with the use of quinolones after sun or UV light exposure .
Therefore , excessive exposure to these sources of light should be avoided .
Drug therapy should be discontinued if phototoxicity occurs ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS / Post - Marketing Adverse Events ) .
Prescribing ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised : • to contact their healthcare provider if they experience pain , swelling , or inflammation of a tendon , or weakness or inability to use one of their joints ; rest and refrain from exercise ; and discontinue ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets treatment . The risk of severe tendon disorder with fluoroquinolones is higher in older patients usually over 60 years of age , in patients taking corticosteroid drugs , and in patients with kidney , heart or lung transplants .
• that fluoroquinolones like ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may cause worsening of myasthenia gravis symptoms , including muscle weakness and breathing problems .
Patients should call their healthcare provider right away if they have any worsening muscle weakness or breathing problems .
• that antibacterial drugs including ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
• that ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be taken with or without meals and to drink fluids liberally .
As with other quinolones , concurrent administration with magnesium / aluminum antacids , or sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , other highly buffered drugs , or with other products containing calcium , iron , or zinc should be avoided .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be taken two hours before or six hours after taking these products .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - drug Interactions , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should not be taken with dairy products ( like milk or yogurt ) or calcium - fortified juices alone since absorption of ciprofloxacin may be significantly reduced ; however , ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be taken with a meal that contains these products .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - drug Interactions , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
• if the patient should forget to take ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets at the usual time , he / she may take the dose later in the day .
Do not take more than one ciprofloxacin extended - release tablet per day even if a patient misses a dose .
Swallow the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablet whole .
DO NOT SPLIT , CRUSH , OR CHEW THE TABLET .
• that ciprofloxacin may be associated with hypersensitivity reactions , even following a single dose , and to discontinue ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets at the first sign of a skin rash or other allergic reaction .
• that photosensitivity / phototoxicity has been reported in patients receiving quinolones .
Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while taking quinolones .
If patients need to be outdoors while using quinolones , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
If a sunburn - like reaction or skin eruption occurs , patients should contact their physician .
• that peripheral neuropathies have been associated with ciprofloxacin use .
If symptoms of peripheral neuropathy including pain , burning , tingling , numbness and / or weakness develop , they should discontinue treatment and contact their physicians .
• that ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may cause dizziness and lightheadedness ; therefore , patients should know how they react to this drug before they operate an automobile or machinery or engage in activities requiring mental alertness or coordination .
• that ciprofloxacin increases the effects of tizanidine ( Zanaflex ® ) .
Patients should not use ciprofloxacin if they are already taking tizanidine .
• that ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may increase the effects of theophylline and caffeine .
There is a possibility of caffeine accumulation when products containing caffeine are consumed while taking quinolones .
• that convulsions have been reported in patients receiving quinolones , including ciprofloxacin , and to notify their physician before taking ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets if there is a history of this condition .
• that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions In a pharmacokinetic study , systemic exposure of tizanidine ( 4 mg single dose ) was significantly increased ( Cmax 7 - fold , AUC 10 - fold ) when the drug was given concomitantly with ciprofloxacin ( 500 mg bid for 3 days ) .
The hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine were also potentiated .
Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated .
As with some other quinolones , concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may lead to elevated serum concentrations of theophylline and prolongation of its elimination half - life .
This may result in increased risk of theophylline - related adverse reactions .
( See WARNINGS . )
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , serum levels of theophylline should be monitored and dosage adjustments made as appropriate .
Some quinolones , including ciprofloxacin , have also been shown to interfere with the metabolism of caffeine .
This may lead to reduced clearance of caffeine and a prolongation of its serum half - life .
Concurrent administration of a quinolone , including ciprofloxacin , with multivalent cation - containing products such as magnesium / aluminum antacids , sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , other highly buffered drugs , or products containing calcium , iron , or zinc may substantially interfere with the absorption of the quinolone , resulting in serum and urine levels considerably lower than desired .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be administered at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after antacids containing magnesium or aluminum , as well as sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , other highly buffered drugs , metal cations such as iron , and multivitamin preparations with zinc .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - drug Interactions , PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Histamine H2 - receptor antagonists appear to have no significant effect on the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin .
Absorption of the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablet was slightly diminished ( 20 % ) when given concomitantly with omeprazole .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - drug Interactions . )
Altered serum levels of phenytoin ( increased and decreased ) have been reported in patients receiving concomitant ciprofloxacin .
The concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin with the sulfonylurea glyburide has , on rare occasions , resulted in severe hypoglycemia .
Some quinolones , including ciprofloxacin , have been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly .
Quinolones , including ciprofloxacin , have been reported to enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant warfarin or its derivatives .
When these products are administered concomitantly , prothrombin time or other suitable coagulation tests should be closely monitored .
Probenecid interferes with renal tubular secretion of ciprofloxacin and produces an increase in the level of ciprofloxacin in the serum .
This should be considered if patients are receiving both drugs concomitantly .
Renal tubular transport of methotrexate may be inhibited by concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin potentially leading to increased plasma levels of methotrexate .
This might increase the risk of methotrexate associated toxic reactions .
Therefore , patients under methotrexate therapy should be carefully monitored when concomitant ciprofloxacin therapy is indicated .
Metoclopramide significantly accelerates the absorption of oral ciprofloxacin resulting in a shorter time to reach maximum plasma concentrations .
No significant effect was observed on the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin .
Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( but not acetyl salicylic acid ) in combination of very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in pre - clinical studies .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin , and the test results are listed below : Salmonella / Microsome Test ( Negative ) E . coli DNA Repair Assay ( Negative ) Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay ( Positive ) Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test ( Negative ) Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay ( Negative ) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay ( Negative ) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay ( Negative ) Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay ( Positive ) Thus , 2 of the 8 tests were positive , but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results : Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay Micronucleus Test ( Mice ) Dominant Lethal Test ( Mice ) Ciprofloxacin was not carcinogenic or tumorigenic in 2 - year carcinogenicity studies with rats and mice at daily oral dose levels of 250 and 750 mg / kg , respectively ( approximately 2 and 3 - fold greater than the 1000 mg daily human dose based upon body surface area ) .
Results from photo co - carcinogenicity testing indicate that ciprofloxacin does not reduce the time to appearance of UV - induced skin tumors as compared to vehicle control .
Hairless ( Skh - 1 ) mice were exposed to UVA light for 3 . 5 hours five times every two weeks for up to 78 weeks while concurrently being administered ciprofloxacin .
The time to development of the first skin tumors was 50 weeks in mice treated concomitantly with UVA and ciprofloxacin ( mouse dose approximately equal to the maximum recommended daily human dose of 1000 mg based upon mg / m2 ) , as opposed to 34 weeks when animals were treated with both UVA and vehicle .
The times to development of skin tumors ranged from 16 - 32 weeks in mice treated concomitantly with UVA and other quinolones .
In this model , mice treated with ciprofloxacin alone did not develop skin or systemic tumors .
There are no data from similar models using pigmented mice and / or fully haired mice .
The clinical significance of these findings to humans is unknown .
Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg / kg ( 1 . 0 times the highest recommended daily human dose of 1000 mg based upon body surface area ) revealed no evidence of impairment .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
An expert review of published data on experiences with ciprofloxacin use during pregnancy by TERIS - the Teratogen Information System – concluded that therapeutic doses during pregnancy are unlikely to pose a substantial teratogenic risk ( quantity and quality of data = fair ) , but the data are insufficient to state there is no risk .
A controlled prospective observational study followed 200 women exposed to fluoroquinolones ( 52 . 5 % exposed to ciprofloxacin and 68 % first trimester exposures ) during gestation .
In utero exposure to fluoroquinolones during embryogenesis was not associated with increased risk of major malformations .
The reported rates of major congenital malformations were 2 . 2 % for the fluoroquinolone group and 2 . 6 % for the control group ( background incidence of major malformations is 1 - 5 % ) .
Rates of spontaneous abortions , prematurity and low birth weight did not differ between the groups and there were no clinically significant musculoskeletal dysfunctions up to one year of age in the ciprofloxacin exposed children .
Another prospective follow - up study reported on 549 pregnancies with fluoroquinolone exposure ( 93 % first trimester exposures ) .
There were 70 ciprofloxacin exposures , all within the first trimester .
The malformation rates among live - born babies exposed to ciprofloxacin and to fluoroquinolones overall were both within background incidence ranges .
No specific patterns of congenital abnormalities were found .
The study did not reveal any clear adverse reactions due to in utero exposure to ciprofloxacin .
No differences in the rates of prematurity , spontaneous abortions , or birth weight were seen in women exposed to ciprofloxacin during pregnancy .
However , these small postmarketing epidemiology studies , of which most experience is from short term , first trimester exposure , are insufficient to evaluate the risk for the less common defects or to permit reliable and definitive conclusions regarding the safety of ciprofloxacin in pregnant women and their developing fetuses .
Ciprofloxacin should not be used during pregnancy unless potential benefit justifies the potential risk to both fetus and mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral doses up to 100 mg / kg ( 0 . 7 and 0 . 4 times the maximum daily human dose of 1000 mg based upon body surface area , respectively ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to ciprofloxacin .
In rabbits , ciprofloxacin ( 30 and 100 mg / kg orally ) produced gastrointestinal disturbances resulting in maternal weight loss and an increased incidence of abortion , but no teratogenicity was observed at either dose .
After intravenous administration of doses up to 20 mg / kg , no maternal toxicity was produced in the rabbit , and no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed .
Nursing Mothers Ciprofloxacin is excreted in human milk .
The amount of ciprofloxacin absorbed by the nursing infant is unknown .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in infants nursing from mothers taking ciprofloxacin , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets in pediatric patients and adolescents less than 18 years of age have not been established .
Ciprofloxacin causes arthropathy in juvenile animals .
( See WARNINGS . )
Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk for developing severe tendon disorders including tendon rupture when being treated with a fluoroquinolone such as ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
This risk is further increased in patients receiving concomitant corticosteroid therapy .
Tendinitis or tendon rupture can involves the Achilles , hand , shoulder , or other tendon sites and can occur during or after completion of therapy ; cases occurring up to several months after fluoroquinolone treatment have been reported .
Caution should be used when prescribing ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets to elderly patients especially those on corticosteroids .
Patients should be informed of this potential side effect and advised to discontinue ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and contact their healthcare provider if any symptoms of tendinitis or tendon rupture occur ( See Boxed Warning , WARNINGS , and ADVERSEREACTIONS / Post - Marketing Adverse Event Reports ) .
In a large , prospective , randomized ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets clinical trial in urinary tract infections , 49 % ( 509 / 1035 ) of the patients were 65 and over , while 30 % ( 308 / 1035 ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and clinical experience with other formulations of ciprofloxacin has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Ciprofloxacin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
No alteration of dosage is necessary for patients greater than 65 years of age with normal renal function .
However , since some older individuals experience reduced renal function by virtue of their advanced age , care should be taken in dose selection for elderly patients , and renal function monitoring may be useful in these patients .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In general , elderly patients may be more susceptible to drug - associated effects on the QT interval .
Therefore , precaution should be taken when using ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets with concomitant drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval ( e . g . , class IA or class III antiarrhythmics ) or in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes ( e . g . , known QT prolongation , uncorrected hypokalemia ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials in patients with urinary tract infections enrolled 961 patients treated with 500 mg or 1000 mg ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
Most adverse events reported were described as mild to moderate in severity and required no treatment .
The overall incidence , type and distribution of adverse events were similar in patients receiving both 500 mg and 1000 mg of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates observed in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical studies does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
In the clinical trial of uncomplicated urinary tract infection , ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets ( 500 mg once daily ) in 444 patients was compared to ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets ( 250 mg twice daily ) in 447 patients for 3 days .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions thought to be drug - related occurred in 0 . 2 % ( 1 / 444 ) of patients in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm and in 0 % ( 0 / 447 ) of patients in the control arm .
In the clinical trial of complicated urinary tract infection and acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis , ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets ( 1000 mg once daily ) in 517 patients was compared to ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets ( 500 mg twice daily ) in 518 patients for 7 to 14 days .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions thought to be drug - related occurred in 3 . 1 % ( 16 / 517 ) of patients in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm and in 2 . 3 % ( 12 / 518 ) of patients in the control arm .
The most common reasons for discontinuation in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm were nausea / vomiting ( 4 patients ) and dizziness ( 3 patients ) .
In the control arm the most common reason for discontinuation was nausea / vomiting ( 3 patients ) .
In these clinical trials , the following events occurred in ≥ 2 % of all ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets patients , regardless of drug relationship : nausea ( 4 % ) , headache ( 3 % ) , dizziness ( 2 % ) , diarrhea ( 2 % ) , vomiting ( 2 % ) and vaginal moniliasis ( 2 % ) .
Adverse events , judged by investigators to be at least possibly drug - related , occurring in greater than or equal to 1 % of all ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets treated patients were : nausea ( 3 % ) , diarrhea ( 2 % ) , headache ( 1 % ) , dyspepsia ( 1 % ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) , and vaginal moniliasis ( 1 % ) .
Vomiting ( 1 % ) occurred in the 1000 mg group .
Additional uncommon events , judged by investigators to be at least possibly drug - related , that occurred in less than 1 % of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets treated patients were : • Body As a Whole : abdominal pain , asthenia , malaise , photosensitivity reaction • Cardiovascular : bradycardia , migraine , syncope • Digestive : anorexia , constipation , dry mouth , flatulence , liver function tests abnormal , thirst • Hemic / Lymphatic : prothrombin decrease • Central Nervous System : abnormal dreams , depersonalization , depression , hypertonia , incoordination , insomnia , somnolence , tremor , vertigo • Metabolic : hyperglycemia • Skin / Hypersensivity : dry skin , maculopapular rash , photosensitivity / phototoxicity reactions , pruritus , rash , skin disorder , urticaria , vesiculobullous rash • Special Senses : diplopia , taste perversion • Urogenital : dysmenorrhea , hematuria , kidney function abnormal , vaginitis Post - Marketing Adverse Event Reports : The following adverse events have been reported from worldwide marketing experience with fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin .
Because these reactions have been reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The events in alphabetical order are : abnormal gait , achiness , acidosis , agitation , agranulocytosis , allergic reactions ( ranging from urticaria to anaphylactic reactions and including life - threatening anaphylactic shock ) , amylase increase , anemia , angina pectoris , angioedema , anosmia , anxiety , arrhythmia , arthralgia , ataxia , atrial flutter , bleeding diathesis , blurred vision , bronchospasm , C . difficile associated diarrhea , candidiasis ( cutaneous , oral ) , candiduria , cardiac murmur , cardiopulmonary arrest , cardiovascular collapse , cerebral thrombosis , chills , cholestatic jaundice , chromatopsia , confusion , convulsion , delirium , drowsiness , dysphagia , dysphasia , dyspnea , edema ( conjunctivae , face , hands , laryngeal , lips , lower extremities , neck , pulmonary ) , epistaxis , erythema multiforme , erythema nodosum , exfoliative dermatitis , fever , fixed eruptions , flushing , gastrointestinal bleeding , gout ( flare up ) , grand mal convulsion , gynecomastia , hallucinations , hearing loss , hemolytic anemia , hemoptysis , hemorrhagic cystitis , hepatic failure ( including fatal cases ) , hepatic necrosis , hepatitis , hiccup , hyperesthesia , hyperpigmentation , hypertension , hypertonia , hypesthesia , hypotension , ileus , interstitial nephritis , intestinal perforation , jaundice , joint stiffness , lethargy , lightheadedness , lipase increase , lymphadenopathy , manic reaction , marrow depression , migraine , moniliasis ( oral , gastrointestinal , vaginal ) , myalgia , myasthenia , exacerbation of myasthenia gravis , myocardial infarction , myoclonus , nephritis , nightmares , nystagmus , oral ulceration , pain ( arm , back , breast , chest , epigastric , eye , extremities , foot , jaw , neck , oral mucosa ) , palpitation , pancreatitis , pancytopenia , paranoia , paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy , perspiration ( increased ) , petechia , phlebitis , phobia , photosensitivity / phototoxicity reaction , pleural effusion , polyuria , postural hypotension , prothrombin time prolongation , pseudomembranous colitis ( the onset of symptoms may occur during or after antimicrobial treatment ) , pulmonary embolism , purpura , renal calculi , renal failure , respiratory arrest , respiratory distress , restlessness , serum sickness - like reaction , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , sweating , tachycardia , taste loss , tendinitis , tendon rupture , tinnitus , torsade de pointes , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( Lyell ' s syndrome ) , toxic psychosis , twitching , unresponsiveness , urethral bleeding , urinary retention , urination ( frequent ) , vaginal pruritus , vasculitis , ventricular ectopy , vesicles , visual acuity ( decreased ) , visual disturbances ( flashing lights , change in color perception , overbrightness of lights ) .
Laboratory Changes The following adverse laboratory changes , in alphabetical order , regardless of incidence or relationship to drug , have been reported in patients given ciprofloxacin ( includes all formulations , all dosages , all drug - therapy durations , and all indications ) : Decreases in blood glucose , BUN , hematocrit , hemoglobin , leukocyte counts , platelet counts , prothrombin time , serum albumin , serum potassium , total serum protein , uric acid .
Increases in alkaline phosphatase , ALT ( SGPT ) , AST ( SGOT ) , atypical lymphocyte counts , blood glucose , blood monocytes , BUN , cholesterol , eosinophil counts , LDH , platelet counts , prothrombin time , sedimentation rate , serum amylase , serum bilirubin , serum calcium , serum cholesterol , serum creatine phosphokinase , serum creatinine , serum gamma - glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ) , serum potassium , serum theophylline ( in patients receiving theophylline concomitantly ) , serum triglycerides , uric acid .
Others : albuminuria , change in serum phenytoin , crystalluria , cylindruria , immature WBCs , leukocytosis , methemoglobinemia , pancytopenia .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of acute excessive overdosage , reversible renal toxicity has been reported in some cases .
The stomach should be emptied by inducing vomiting or by gastric lavage .
The patient should be carefully observed and given supportive treatment , including monitoring of renal function and administration of magnesium or calcium containing antacids which can reduce the absorption of ciprofloxacin .
Adequate hydration must be maintained .
Only a small amount of ciprofloxacin ( < 10 % ) is removed from the body after hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
In mice , rats , rabbits and dogs , significant toxicity including tonic / clonic convulsions was observed at intravenous doses of ciprofloxacin between 125 and 300 mg / kg .
Single doses of ciprofloxacin were relatively non - toxic via the oral route of administration in mice , rats , and dogs .
No deaths occurred within a 14 - day post treatment observation period at the highest oral doses tested ; up to 5000 mg / kg in either rodent species , or up to 2500 mg / kg in the dog .
Clinical signs observed included hypoactivity and cyanosis in both rodent species and severe vomiting in dogs .
In rabbits , significant mortality was seen at doses of ciprofloxacin > 2500 mg / kg .
Mortality was delayed in these animals , occurring 10 - 14 days after dosing .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets are not interchangeable .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be administered orally once daily as described in the following Dosage Guidelines table : DOSAGE GUIDELINESIndication Unit Dose Frequency Usual Duration Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection ( Acute Cystitis ) 500 mg Q24h 3 Days Complicated Urinary Tract Infection 1000 mg Q24h 7 - 14 Days Acute Uncomplicated Pyelonephritis 1000 mg Q24h 7 - 14 Days Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin I . V . for urinary tract infections may be switched to ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be administered at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after antacids containing magnesium or aluminum , as well as sucralfate , VIDEX ® ( didanosine ) chewable / buffered tablets or pediatric powder , other highly buffered drugs , metal cations such as iron , and multivitamin preparations with zinc .
Although ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets may be taken with meals that include milk , concomitant administration with dairy products alone , or with calcium - fortified products should be avoided , since decreased absorption is possible .
A 2 - hour window between substantial calcium intake ( > 800 mg ) and dosing with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are recommended .
Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole .
DO NOT SPLIT , CRUSH , OR CHEW THE TABLET .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - drug Interactions , PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and Information for Patients . )
Impaired Renal Function Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion ; however , the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine .
These alternate pathways of drug elimination appear to compensate for the reduced renal excretion in patients with renal impairment .
No dosage adjustment is required for patients with uncomplicated urinary tract infections receiving 500 mg ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets .
In patients with complicated urinary tract infections and acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis , who have a creatinine clearance of < 30 mL / min , the dose of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets should be reduced from 1000 mg to 500 mg daily .
For patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis , administer ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets after the dialysis procedure is completed .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations , and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use . )
Impaired Hepatic Function No dosage adjustment is required with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets in patients with stable chronic cirrhosis .
The kinetics of ciprofloxacin in patients with acute hepatic insufficiency , however , have not been fully elucidated .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations . )
HOW SUPPLIED Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , 500 mg are white to off - white , film coated , oblong shaped , biconvex tablets , embossed with ‘ RDY ’ on one side and ‘ 422 ’ on other side .
They are supplied in bottles of 30 ' s , 100 ' s , 500 ' s and unit - dose package of 100 ( 10 × 10 ) .
Bottles of 30 NDC 55111 - 422 - 30 Bottles of 100 NDC 55111 - 422 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 55111 - 422 - 05 Unit - dose package of 100 ( 10 × 10 ) NDC 55111 - 422 - 78 Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , 1000 mg are white to off - white , film coated , oblong shaped , biconvex tablets , embossed with ‘ RDY ’ on one side and ‘ 423 ’ on other side .
They are supplied in bottles of 30 ' s , 100 ' s , 500 ' s and unit - dose packages of 100 ( 10 × 10 ) .
Bottles of 30 NDC 55111 - 423 - 30 Bottles of 100 NDC 55111 - 423 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 55111 - 423 - 05 Unit - dose package of 100 ( 10 × 10 ) NDC 55111 - 423 - 78 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY Ciprofloxacin and other quinolones have been shown to cause arthropathy in immature animals of most species tested .
( See WARNINGS . )
Damage of weight bearing joints was observed in juvenile dogs and rats .
In young beagles , 100 mg / kg ciprofloxacin , given daily for 4 weeks , caused degenerative articular changes of the knee joint .
At 30 mg / kg , the effect on the joint was minimal .
In a subsequent study in beagles , removal of weight bearing from the joint reduced the lesions but did not totally prevent them .
Crystalluria , sometimes associated with secondary nephropathy , occurs in laboratory animals dosed with ciprofloxacin .
This is primarily related to the reduced solubility of ciprofloxacin under alkaline conditions , which predominate in the urine of test animals ; in man , crystalluria is rare since human urine is typically acidic .
In rhesus monkeys , crystalluria without nephropathy has been noted after single oral doses as low as 5 mg / kg .
After 6 months of intravenous dosing at 10 mg / kg / day , no nephropathological changes were noted ; however , nephropathy was observed after dosing at 20 mg / kg / day for the same duration .
In mice , concomitant administration of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs such as phenylbutazone and indomethacin with quinolones has been reported to enhance the CNS stimulatory effect of quinolones .
Ocular toxicity seen with some related drugs has not been observed in ciprofloxacin - treated animals .
CLINICAL STUDIES Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections ( acute cystitis ) Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets was evaluated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections ( acute cystitis ) in a randomized , double - blind , controlled clinical trial conducted in the US .
This study compared ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets ( 500 mg once daily for three days ) with ciprofloxacin immediate - release tablets ( ciprofloxacin 250 mg BID for three days ) .
Of the 905 patients enrolled , 452 were randomly assigned to the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets treatment group and 453 were randomly assigned to the control group .
The primary efficacy variable was bacteriologic eradication of the baseline organism ( s ) with no new infection or superinfection at test - of - cure ( Day 4 - 11 Post - therapy ) .
The bacteriologic eradication and clinical success rates were similar between ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and the control group .
The eradication and clinical success rates and their corresponding 95 % confidence intervals for the differences between rates ( ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets minus control group ) are given in the following table : Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets 500 mg QD × 3 Days Ciprofloxacin tablets 250 mg BID × 3 Days Randomized Patients 452 453 Per Protocol Patients [ 1 ] 199 223 Bacteriologic Eradication at TOC ( n / N ) [ 2 ] 188 / 199 ( 94 . 5 % ) 209 / 223 ( 93 . 7 % ) CI [ - 3 . 5 % , 5 . 1 % ] Bacteriologic Eradication ( by organism ) at TOC ( n / N ) [ 3 ] E . coli 156 / 160 ( 97 . 5 % ) 176 / 181 ( 97 . 2 % ) E . faecalis 10 / 11 ( 90 . 9 % ) 17 / 21 ( 81 . 0 % ) P . mirabilis 11 / 12 ( 91 . 7 % ) 7 / 7 ( 100 % ) S . saprophyticus 6 / 7 ( 85 . 7 % ) 9 / 9 ( 100 % ) Clinical Response at TOC ( n / N ) [ 4 ] 189 / 199 ( 95 . 0 % ) 204 / 223 ( 91 . 5 % ) CI [ - 1 . 1 % , 8 . 1 % ] [ 1 ] The presence of a pathogen at a level of ≥ 105 CFU / mL was required for microbiological evaluability criteria , except for S . saprophyticus ( ≥ 104 CFU / mL ) .
[ 2 ] n / N = patients with baseline organism ( s ) eradicated and no new infections or superinfections / total number of patients [ 3 ] n / N = patients with specified baseline organism eradicated / patients with specified baseline organism [ 4 ] n / N = patients with clinical success / total number of patients Complicated Urinary Tract Infections and Acute Uncomplicated Pyelonephritis Ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets was evaluated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) and acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis ( AUP ) in a randomized , double - blind , controlled clinical trial conducted in the US and Canada .
The study enrolled 1 , 042 patients ( 521 patients per treatment arm ) and compared ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets ( 1000 mg once daily for 7 to 14 days ) with immediate - release ciprofloxacin ( 500 mg BID for 7 to 14 days ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint for this trial was bacteriologic eradication of the baseline organism ( s ) with no new infection or superinfection at 5 to 11 days post - therapy ( test - of - cure or TOC ) for the Per Protocol and Modified Intent - To - Treat ( MITT ) populations .
The Per Protocol population was defined as patients with a diagnosis of cUTI or AUP , a causative organism ( s ) at baseline present at ≥ 105 CFU / mL , no inclusion criteria violation , a valid test - of - cure urine culture within the TOC window , an organism susceptible to study drug , no premature discontinuation or loss to follow - up , and compliance with the dosage regimen ( among other criteria ) .
More patients in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm than in the control arm were excluded from the Per Protocol population and this should be considered in the interpretation of the study results .
Reasons for exclusion with the greatest discrepancy between the two arms were no valid test - of - cure urine culture , an organism resistant to the study drug , and premature discontinuation due to adverse events .
An analysis of all patients with a causative organism ( s ) isolated at baseline and who received study medication , defined as the MITT population , included 342 patients in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm and 324 patients in the control arm .
Patients with missing responses were counted as failures in this analysis .
In the MITT analysis of cUTI patients , bacteriologic eradication was 160 / 271 ( 59 . 0 % ) versus 156 / 248 ( 62 . 9 % ) in ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and control arm , respectively [ 97 . 5 % CI [ 1 ] ( - 13 . 5 % , 5 . 7 % ) ] .
Clinical cure was 184 / 271 ( 67 . 9 % ) for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and 182 / 248 ( 73 . 4 % ) for control arm , respectively [ 97 . 5 % CI null ( - 14 . 4 % , 3 . 5 % ) ] .
Bacterial eradication in the MITT analysis of patients with AUP at TOC was 47 / 71 ( 66 . 2 % ) and 58 / 76 ( 76 . 3 % ) for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and control arm , respectively [ 97 . 5 % CI null ( - 26 . 8 % , 6 . 5 % ) ] .
Clinical cure at TOC was 50 / 71 ( 70 . 4 % ) for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and 58 / 76 ( 76 . 3 % ) for the control arm [ 97 . 5 % CI null ( - 22 . 0 % , 10 . 4 % ) ] .
In the Per Protocol population , the differences between ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and the control arm in bacteriologic eradication rates at the TOC visit were not consistent between AUP and cUTI patients .
The bacteriologic eradication rate for cUTI patients was higher in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm than in the control arm .
For AUP patients , the bacteriologic eradication rate was lower in the ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets arm than in the control arm .
This inconsistency was not observed between the two treatment groups for clinical cure rates .
Clinical cure rates were 96 . 1 % ( 198 / 206 ) and 92 . 1 % ( 211 / 229 ) for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and the control arm , respectively .
The bacterial eradication and clinical cure rates by infection type for ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets and the control arm at the TOC visit and their corresponding 97 . 5 % confidence intervals for the differences between rates ( ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets minus control arm ) are given below for the Per Protocol population analysis : CIPROFLOXACIN EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS 1000 mg QD CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS 500 mg BID Randomized Patients 521 521 Per Protocol Patients [ 1 ] 206 229 cUTI Patients Bacteriologic Eradication at TOC ( n / N ) [ 2 ] 148 / 166 ( 89 . 2 % ) 144 / 177 ( 81 . 4 % ) CI [ - 0 . 7 % , 16 . 3 % ] Bacteriologic Eradication ( by organism ) at TOC ( n / N ) [ 3 ] E . coli 91 / 94 ( 96 . 8 % ) 90 / 92 ( 97 . 8 % ) K . pneumoniae 20 / 21 ( 95 . 2 % ) 19 / 23 ( 82 . 6 % ) E . faecalis 17 / 17 ( 100 % ) 14 / 21 ( 66 . 7 % ) P . mirabilis 11 / 12 ( 91 . 6 % ) 10 / 10 ( 100 % ) P . aeruginosa 3 / 3 ( 100 % ) 3 / 3 ( 100 % ) Clinical Cure at TOC ( n / N ) [ 4 ] 159 / 166 ( 95 . 8 % ) 161 / 177 ( 91 . 0 % ) CI [ - 1 . 1 % , 10 . 8 % ] AUP Patients Bacteriologic Eradication at TOC ( n / N ) null 35 / 40 ( 87 . 5 % ) 51 / 52 ( 98 . 1 % ) CI [ - 34 . 8 % , 6 . 2 % ] Bacteriologic Eradication of E . coli at TOC ( n / N ) null 35 / 36 ( 97 . 2 % ) 41 / 41 ( 100 % ) Clinical Cure at TOC ( n / N ) null 39 / 40 ( 97 . 5 % ) 50 / 52 ( 96 . 2 % ) CI [ - 15 . 3 % , 21 . 1 % ] [ 1 ] Patients excluded from the Per Protocol population were primarily those with no causative organism ( s ) at baseline or no organism present at ≥ 105 CFU / mL at baseline , inclusion criteria violation , no valid test - of - cure urine culture within the TOC window , an organism resistant to study drug , premature discontinuation due to an adverse event , lost to follow - up , or non - compliance with dosage regimen ( among other criteria ) .
[ 2 ] n / N = patients with baseline organism ( s ) eradicated and no new infections or superinfections / total number of patients [ 3 ] n / N = patients with specified baseline organism eradicated / patients with specified baseline organism [ 4 ] n / N = patients with clinical success / total number of patients Of the 166 cUTI patients treated with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , 148 ( 89 % ) had the causative organism ( s ) eradicated , 8 ( 5 % ) had persistence , 5 ( 3 % ) patients developed superinfections and 5 ( 3 % ) developed new infections .
Of the 177 cUTI patients treated in the control arm , 144 ( 81 % ) had the causative organism ( s ) eradicated , 16 ( 9 % ) patients had persistence , 3 ( 2 % ) developed superinfections and 14 ( 8 % ) developed new infections .
Of the 40 patients with AUP treated with ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , 35 ( 87 . 5 % ) had the causative organism ( s ) eradicated , 2 ( 5 % ) patients had persistence and 3 ( 7 . 5 % ) developed new infections .
Of the 5 ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets AUP patients without eradication at TOC , 4 were considered clinical cures and did not receive alternative antibiotic therapy .
Of the 52 patients with AUP treated in the control arm , 51 ( 98 % ) had the causative organism ( s ) eradicated .
One patient ( 2 % ) had persistence .
[ 1 ] confidence interval of the difference in rates ( ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets minus control ) .
References • Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard – Eighth Edition .
CLSI Document M7 - A8 , Vol .
29 , No . 2 , CLSI , Wayne , PA , January , 2009 .
• Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard – Tenth Edition .
CLSI Document M2 - A10 , Vol .
29 , No . 1 , CLSI , Wayne , PA , January , 2009 .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Limited Bachepalli – 502 325 INDIA Revised : 0811 MEDICATION GUIDE CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS , USP CIPROFLOXACIN EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS READ THE MEDICATION GUIDE THAT COMES WITH CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS BEFORE YOU START TAKING IT AND EACH TIME YOU GET A REFILL .
THERE MAY BE NEW INFORMATION .
THIS MEDICATION GUIDE DOES NOT TAKE THE PLACE OF TALKING TO YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER ABOUT YOUR MEDICAL CONDITION OR YOUR TREATMENT .
What is the most important information I should know about ciprofloxacin tablets ?
CIPROFLOXACIN BELONGS TO A CLASS OF ANTIBIOTICS CALLED FLUOROQUINOLONES .
CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS CAN CAUSE SIDE EFFECTS THAT MAY BE SERIOUS OR EVEN CAUSE DEATH .
IF YOU GET ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SERIOUS SIDE EFFECTS , GET MEDICAL HELP RIGHT AWAY .
TALK WITH YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER ABOUT WHETHER YOU SHOULD CONTINUE TO TAKE CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
1 .
Tendon rupture or swelling of the tendon ( tendinitis ) • Tendon problems can happen in people of all ages who take ciprofloxacin tablets .
• Tendons are tough cords of tissue that connect muscles to bones .
Symptoms of tendon problems may include : • Pain , swelling , tears , and inflammation of tendons including the back of the ankle ( Achilles ) , shoulder , hand , or other tendon sites .
• The risk of getting tendon problems while you take ciprofloxacin tablets is higher if you : • are over 60 years of age • are taking steroids ( corticosteroids ) • have had a kidney , heart , or lung transplant .
• Tendon problems can happen in people who do not have the above risk factors when they take ciprofloxacin tablets .
Other reasons that can increase your risk of tendon problems can include : • physical activity or exercise • kidney failure • tendon problems in the past , such as in people with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) • Call your healthcare provider right away at the first sign of tendon pain , swelling or inflammation .
Stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets until tendinitis or tendon rupture has been ruled out by your healthcare provider .
Avoid exercise and using the affected area .
The most common area of pain and swelling is the Achilles tendon at the back of your ankle .
This can also happen with other tendons .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about the risk of tendon rupture with continued use of ciprofloxacin tablets .
You may need a different antibiotic that is not a fluoroquinolone to treat your infection .
• Tendon rupture can happen while you are taking or after you have finished taking ciprofloxacin tablets .
Tendon ruptures have happened up to several months after patients have finished taking their fluoroquinolone .
• Get medical help right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms of a tendon rupture : • hear or feel a snap or pop in a tendon area • bruising right after an injury in a tendon area • unable to move the affected area or bear weight 2 .
WORSENING OF MYASTHENIA GRAVIS ( A DISEASE WHICH CAUSES MUSCLE WEAKNESS ) .
FLUOROQUINOLONES LIKE CIPROFLOXACIN MAY CAUSE WORSENING OF MYASTHENIA GRAVIS SYMPTOMS , INCLUDING MUSCLE WEAKNESS AND BREATHING PROBLEMS .
CALL YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER RIGHT AWAY IF YOU HAVE ANY WORSENING MUSCLE WEAKNESS OR BREATHING PROBLEMS .
SEE THE SECTION “ WHAT ARE THE POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS OF CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS ? ”
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
What are ciprofloxacin tablets ?
Ciprofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic medicine used to treat certain infections caused by certain germs called bacteria .
Children less than 18 years of age have a higher chance of getting bone , joint , or tendon ( musculoskeletal ) problems such as pain or swelling while taking ciprofloxacin tablets .
Ciprofloxacin tablets should not be used as the first choice of antibiotic medicine in children under 18 years of age .
Ciprofloxacin tablets should not be used in children under 18 years old , except to treat specific serious infections , such as complicated urinary tract infections and to prevent anthrax disease after breathing the anthrax bacteria germ ( inhalational exposure ) .
It is not known if ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets are safe and works in children under 18 years of age .
SOMETIMES INFECTIONS ARE CAUSED BY VIRUSES RATHER THAN BY BACTERIA .
EXAMPLES INCLUDE VIRAL INFECTIONS IN THE SINUSES AND LUNGS , SUCH AS THE COMMON COLD OR FLU .
ANTIBIOTICS , INCLUDING CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS , DO NOT KILL VIRUSES .
CALL YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER IF YOU THINK YOUR CONDITION IS NOT GETTING BETTER WHILE YOU ARE TAKING CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
Who should not take ciprofloxacin tablets ?
DO NOT TAKE CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS IF YOU : • HAVE EVER HAD A SEVERE ALLERGIC REACTION TO AN ANTIBIOTIC KNOWN AS A FLUOROQUINOLONE , OR ARE ALLERGIC TO ANY OF THE INGREDIENTS IN CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
ASK YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER IF YOU ARE NOT SURE .
SEE THE LIST OF INGREDIENTS IN CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS AT THE END OF THIS MEDICATION GUIDE .
• ALSO TAKE A MEDICINE CALLED TIZANIDINE ( ZANAFLEX ® ) .
SERIOUS SIDE EFFECTS FROM TIZANIDINE ARE LIKELY TO HAPPEN .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ciprofloxacin tablets ?
SEE “ WHAT IS THE MOST IMPORTANT INFORMATION I SHOULD KNOW ABOUT CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS ? ”
Tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have tendon problems • have a disease that causes muscle weakness ( myasthenia gravis ) • have central nervous system problems ( such as epilepsy ) • have nerve problems • have or anyone in your family has an irregular heartbeat , especially a condition called “ QT prolongation ” • have a history of seizures • have kidney problems .
You may need a lower dose of ciprofloxacin tablets if your kidneys do not work well .
• have rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) or other history of joint problems • have trouble swallowing pills • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if ciprofloxacin tablets will harm your unborn child .
• are breast - feeding or planning to breast - feed .
Ciprofloxacin tablets passes into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide whether you will take ciprofloxacin tablets or breast - feed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal and dietary supplements .
Ciprofloxacin tablets and other medicines can affect each other causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • an NSAID ( Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ) .
Many common medicines for pain relief are NSAIDs .
Taking an NSAID while you take ciprofloxacin tablets or other fluoroquinolones may increase your risk of central nervous system effects and seizures .
See “ What are the possible side effects of ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• a blood thinner ( warfarin , Coumadin ® , Jantoven ® ) • tizanidine ( Zanaflex ® ) You should not take ciprofloxacin tablets if you are already taking tizanidine .
See “ Who should not take ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• theophylline ( Theo - 24 ® , Elixophyllin ® , Theochron ® , Uniphyl ® , Theolair ® ) • glyburide ( Micronase ® , Glynase ® , Diabeta ® , Glucovance ® ) .
See “ What are the possible side effects of ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• phenytoin ( Fosphenytoin Sodium ® , Cerebyx ® , Dilantin - 125 ® , Dilantin ® , Extended Phenytoin Sodium ® , Prompt Penytoin Sodium ® , Phenytek ® ) • products that contain caffeine • a medicine to control your heart rate or rhythm ( antiarrhythmics ) See “ What are the possible side effects of ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• an anti - psychotic medicine • a tricyclic antidepressant • a water pill ( diuretic ) • a steroid medicine .
Corticosteroids taken by mouth or by injection may increase the chance of tendon injury .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• methotrexate ( Trexall ® ) • Probenecid ( Probalan ® , Col - probenecid ® ) • Metoclopromide ( Reglan ® , Reglan ODT ® ) • Certain medicines may keep ciprofloxacin tablets from working correctly .
Take ciprofloxacin tablets either 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking these products : • an antacid , multivitamin , or other product that has magnesium , calcium , aluminum , iron , or zinc • sucralfate ( Carafate ® ) • didanosine ( Videx ® , Videx ® EC ) .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if any of your medicines are listed above .
KNOW THE MEDICINES YOU TAKE .
KEEP A LIST OF YOUR MEDICINES AND SHOW IT TO YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER AND PHARMACIST WHEN YOU GET A NEW MEDICINE .
How should I take ciprofloxacin tablets ?
• Take ciprofloxacin tablets exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Take ciprofloxacin tablets in the morning and evening at about the same time each day .
Swallow the tablet whole .
Do not split , crush or chew the tablet .
Tell your healthcare provider if you cannot swallow the tablet whole .
• Take ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets one time each day at about the same time each day .
Swallow the tablet whole .
Do not split , crush or chew the tablet .
Tell your healthcare provider if you cannot swallow the tablet whole .
• Ciprofloxacin tablets can be taken with or without food .
• Ciprofloxacin tablets should not be taken with dairy products ( like milk or yogurt ) or calcium - fortified juices alone , but may be taken with a meal that contains these products .
• Drink plenty of fluids while taking ciprofloxacin tablets .
• Do not skip any doses , or stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets even if you begin to feel better , until you finish your prescribed treatment , unless : • you have tendon effects ( see “ What is the most important information I should know about ciprofloxacin tablets ? ” )
, • you have a serious allergic reaction ( see “ What are the possible side effects of ciprofloxacin tablets ? ” )
, or • your healthcare provider tells you to stop .
This will help make sure that all of the bacteria are killed and lower the chance that the bacteria will become resistant to ciprofloxacin tablets .
If this happens , ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibiotic medicines may not work in the future .
• If you miss a dose of ciprofloxacin tablets , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not take two doses at the same time , and do not take more than two doses in one day .
• If you miss a dose of ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not take more than one dose in one day .
• If you take too much , call your healthcare provider or get medical help immediately .
If you have been prescribed ciprofloxacin tablets after being exposed to anthrax : • Ciprofloxacin tablets has been approved to lessen the chance of getting anthrax disease or worsening of the disease after you are exposed to the anthrax bacteria germ .
• Take ciprofloxacin tablets exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Do not stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets without talking with your healthcare provider .
If you stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets too soon , it may not keep you from getting the anthrax disease .
• Side effects may happen while you are taking ciprofloxacin tablets .
When taking your ciprofloxacin tablets to prevent anthrax infection , you and your healthcare provider should talk about whether the risks of stopping ciprofloxacin tablets too soon are more important than the risks of side effects with ciprofloxacin tablets .
• If you are pregnant , or plan to become pregnant while taking ciprofloxacin tablets , you and your healthcare provider should decide whether the benefits of taking ciprofloxacin tablets for anthrax are more important than the risks .
What should I avoid while taking ciprofloxacin tablets ?
• Ciprofloxacin tablets can make you feel dizzy and lightheaded .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other activities that require mental alertness or coordination until you know how ciprofloxacin tablets affects you .
• Avoid sunlamps , tanning beds , and try to limit your time in the sun .
Ciprofloxacin tablets can make your skin sensitive to the sun ( photosensitivity ) and the light from sunlamps and tanning beds .
You could get severe sunburn , blisters or swelling of your skin .
If you get any of these symptoms while taking ciprofloxacin tablets , call your healthcare provider right away .
You should use a sunscreen and wear a hat and clothes that cover your skin if you have to be in sunlight .
What are the possible side effects of ciprofloxacin tablets ?
Ciprofloxacin tablets can cause side effects that may be serious or even cause death .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
OTHER SERIOUS SIDE EFFECTS OF CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS INCLUDE : • Central Nervous System Effects Seizures have been reported in people who take fluoroquinolone antibiotics including ciprofloxacin tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have a history of seizures .
Ask your healthcare provider whether taking ciprofloxacin tablets will change your risk of having a seizure .
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM ( CNS ) SIDE EFFECTS MAY HAPPEN AS SOON AS AFTER TAKING THE FIRST DOSE OF CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
TALK TO YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER RIGHT AWAY IF YOU GET ANY OF THESE SIDE EFFECTS , OR OTHER CHANGES IN MOOD OR BEHAVIOR : • feel dizzy • seizures • hear voices , see things , or sense things that are not there ( hallucinations ) • feel restless • tremors • feel anxious or nervous • confusion • depression • trouble sleeping • nightmares • feel more suspicious ( paranoia ) • suicidal thoughts or acts • Serious allergic reactions Allergic reactions can happen in people taking fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin tablets , even after only one dose .
Stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets and get emergency medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • hives • trouble breathing or swallowing • swelling of the lips , tongue , face • throat tightness , hoarseness • rapid heartbeat • faint • yellowing of the skin or eyes .
Stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets and tell your healthcare provider right away if you get yellowing of your skin or white part of your eyes , or if you have dark urine .
These can be signs of a serious reaction to ciprofloxacin tablets ( a liver problem ) .
• Skin rash Skin rash may happen in people taking ciprofloxacin tablets , even after only one dose .
Stop taking ciprofloxacin tablets at the first sign of a skin rash and call your healthcare provider .
Skin rash may be a sign of a more serious reaction to ciprofloxacin tablets .
• Serious heart rhythm changes ( QT prolongation and torsades de pointes ) Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have a change in your heart beat ( a fast or irregular heartbeat ) , or if you faint .
Ciprofloxacin tablets may cause a rare heart problem known as prolongation of the QT interval .
This condition can cause an abnormal heartbeat and can be very dangerous .
The chances of this event are higher in people : • who are elderly • with a family history of prolonged QT interval , • with low blood potassium ( hypokalemia ) , • who take certain medicines to control heart rhythm ( antiarrhythmics ) .
• Intestine infection ( Pseudomembranous colitis ) Pseudomembranous colitis can happen with most antibiotics , including ciprofloxacin tablets .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get watery diarrhea , diarrhea that does not go away , or bloody stools .
You may have stomach cramps and a fever .
Pseudomembranous colitis can happen 2 or more months after you have finished your antibiotic .
• Changes in sensation and possible nerve damage ( Peripheral Neuropathy ) Damage to the nerves in arms , hands , legs , or feet can happen in people who take fluoroquinolones , including ciprofloxacin tablets .
Talk with your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms of peripheral neuropathy in your arms , hands , legs , or feet : • pain • burning • tingling • numbness • weakness CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS MAY NEED TO BE STOPPED TO PREVENT PERMANENT NERVE DAMAGE .
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) People who take ciprofloxacin tablets and other fluoroquinolone medicines with the oral anti - diabetes medicine glyburide ( Micronase , Glynase , Diabeta , Glucovance ) can get low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) which can sometimes be severe .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get low blood sugar with ciprofloxacin tablets .
Your antibiotic medicine may need to be changed .
• Sensitivity to sunlight ( photosensitivity ) See “ What should I avoid while taking ciprofloxacin tablets ? ”
• Joint Problems Increased chance of problems with joints and tissues around joints in children under 18 years old .
Tell your child ’ s healthcare provider if your child has any joint problems during or after treatment with ciprofloxacin tablets .
THE MOST COMMON SIDE EFFECTS OF CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS INCLUDE : • nausea • headache • diarrhea • vomiting • vaginal yeast infection • changes in liver function tests • pain or discomfort in the abdomen THESE ARE NOT ALL THE POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS OF CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
TELL YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER ABOUT ANY SIDE EFFECT THAT BOTHERS YOU , OR THAT DOES NOT GO AWAY .
CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR MEDICAL ADVICE ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
YOU MAY REPORT SIDE EFFECTS TO FDA AT 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ciprofloxacin tablets ?
• Ciprofloxacin Tablets : • Store ciprofloxacin tablets below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Ciprofloxacin Extended - Release Tablets : • Store ciprofloxacin extended - release tablets at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS AND ALL MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS MEDICINES ARE SOMETIMES PRESCRIBED FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN THOSE LISTED IN A MEDICATION GUIDE .
DO NOT USE CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS FOR A CONDITION FOR WHICH IT IS NOT PRESCRIBED .
DO NOT GIVE CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS TO OTHER PEOPLE , EVEN IF THEY HAVE THE SAME SYMPTOMS THAT YOU HAVE .
IT MAY HARM THEM .
THIS MEDICATION GUIDE SUMMARIZES THE MOST IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS .
IF YOU WOULD LIKE MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS , TALK WITH YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER .
YOU CAN ASK YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER OR PHARMACIST FOR INFORMATION ABOUT CIPROFLOXACIN TABLETS THAT IS WRITTEN FOR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS .
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 .
What are the ingredients in ciprofloxacin tablets ?
• Ciprofloxacin Tablets : • Active ingredient : ciprofloxacin • Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 , sodium starch glycolate , corn starch and titanium dioxide .
• Ciprofloxacin Extended - Release Tablets : • Active ingredient : ciprofloxacin • Inactive ingredients : crospovidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , succinic acid and titanium dioxide To reorder additional medguides , please contact Dr . Reddy ’ s Customer Service at 1 - 866 - 733 - 3952 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Limited Bachepalli – 502 325 INDIA Rx Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Limited Bachepalli – 502 325 INDIA Revised : 0811 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION 500 mg Labels Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 mg Labels Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
