DESCRIPTION Meclizine hydrochloride , an oral antiemetic , is a white , slightly yellowish , crystalline powder which has a slight odor and is tasteless .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C25H27CIN2 • 2 HCI • H2O M . W . 481 . 89 The chemical name is 1 - ( p - chloro - alpha - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methyl - benzyl ) - piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets are available in 12 . 5 mg , and * 25 mg strengths for oral administration .
* Contains FD & C Yellow # 5 ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , starch , and stearic acid .
In addition , the 12 . 5 mg tablet contains FD & C Blue # 1 ; and the 25 mg tablet contains D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Yellow # 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meclizine hydrochloride is an antihistamine which shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median Tmax value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans in unknown .
Metabolism The metabolic fate of meclizine in humans in unknown .
In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine .
The genetic polymorphism of CYP2D6 that results in extensive - , poor - , intermediate - and ultrarapid metabolizer phenotypes could contribute to large inter - individual variability in meclizine exposure .
Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 to 6 hours in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE INDICATIONS Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences – National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the indications as follows : Effective : Management of nausea and vomiting , and dizziness associated with motion sickness .
Possibly Effective : Management of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system .
Final classification of the less than effective indications required further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Since drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking the drug .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
Usage in Children Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 to 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that meclizine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , meclizine , or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary .
PRECAUTIONS The Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , 25 mg contain FD & C Yellow # 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow # 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when meclizine is administered to a nursing woman .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetic of meclizine has not been evaluated .
As meclizine undergoes metabolism , hepatic impairment may result in increased systemic exposure of the drug .
Treatment with meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
Due to a potential for drug / metabolite accumulation , meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with renal impairment and in the elderly as renal function generally declines with age .
Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , tranquilizers , and sedatives .
( see WARNINGS ) .
Based on in - vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Vertigo For the control of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system , the recommended dose is 25 to 100 mg daily , in divided dosage , depending upon clinical response .
Motion Sickness : The initial dose of 25 to 50 mg meclizine hydrochloride , should be taken one hour prior to embarkation for protection against motion sickness .
Thereafter , the dose may be repeated every 24 hours for the duration of the journey .
HOW SUPPLIED Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 25 mg - yellow , oval tablets debossed with “ 035 ” on one side and “ par ” on the other side .
They are supplied in bottles of 8 ( NDC 00440 -- 1736 - 08 ) .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in the USP .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES , INC .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Revised : 11 / 2012 OS034 - 01 - 1 - 12 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL : 25 MG CONTAINER LABEL 8 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
