FOR INTRAVENOUS , INTRAMUSCULAR OR SUBCUTANEOUS USE .
CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVES .
Ascorbic Acid ( vitamin C ) is a water - soluble vitamin .
It occurs as a white or slightly yellow crystal or powder with a light acidic taste .
It is an antiscorbutic product .
On exposure to air and light it gradually darkens .
In the dry state it is reasonably stable in air , but in solution it rapidly oxidizes .
Ascorbic Acid is freely soluble in water ; sparingly soluble in alcohol ; insoluble in chloroform , ether , and benzene .
The chemical name of Ascorbic Acid is L - ascorbic acid .
The molecular formula is C6H806 and the molecular weight is 176 . 13 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ascorbic Acid injection is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow sterile solution of Ascorbic Acid in Water for Injection , for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous use .
Each mL contains : Ascorbic Acid 500 mg , Disodium Edetate 0 . 25 mg , in Water for Injection q . s ..
pH ( range 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) adjusted with Sodium Bicarbonate and Sodium Hydroxide .
Contains no preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In humans , an exogenous source of ascorbic acid is required for collagen formulation and tissue repair .
Ascorbic acid is reversibly oxidized to dehydroascorbic acid in the body .
These two forms of the vitamin are believed to be important in oxidation - reduction reactions .
The vitamin is involved in tyrosine metabolism , conversion of folic acid to folinic acid , carbohydrate metabolism , synthesis of lipids and proteins , iron metabolism , resistance to infections , and cellular respiration .
Ascorbic acid deficiency results in scurvy .
Collagenous structures are primarily affected , lesions develop in bones and blood vessels .
Administration of ascorbic acid completely reverses the symptoms of ascorbic acid deficiency .
Ascorbic acid is recommended for the prevention and treatment of scurvy .
Its parenteral administration is desirable for patients with an acute deficiency or for those whose absorption of orally ingested ascorbic acid is uncertain .
Symptoms of mild deficiency may include faulty bone and tooth development , gingivitis , bleeding gums , and loosened teeth .
Febril states , chronic illness , and infection ( pneumonia , whooping cough , tuberculosis , diphtheria , sinusitis , rheumatic fever , etc . ) increases the need for ascorbic acid .
Hemovascular disorders , burns , delayed fracture and wound healing are indications for an increase in the daily intake .
There are no contraindications to the administration of ascorbic acid Diabetics , patients prone to recurrent renal calculi , those undergoing stool occult blood tests and those on sodium restricted diets or anticoagulant therapy should not take excessive doses of ascorbic acid over an extended period of time .
General Precautions : Too - rapid intravenous injection is to be avoided .
Laboratory Tests : Diabetics taking more than 500 mg of ascorbic acid daily may obtain false reading of the urinary glucose test .
No exogenous ascorbic acid should be ingested for 48 to 72 hours before amine dependent stool occult blood tests are conducted because possible false negative results may occur .
Drug Interactions : Limited evidence suggests that ascorbic acid may influence the intensity and duration of action of bishydroxycoumarin .
Usage in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ascorbic Acid Injection .
It is also not known whether Ascorbic Acid Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ascorbic Acid Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Ascorbic Acid Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Transient mild soreness may occur at the site of intramuscular or subcutaneous injection .
Too - rapid intravenous administration of the solution may cause temporary faintness or dizziness .
Ascorbic acid is usually administered orally .
When oral administration is not feasible or when malabsorption is suspected , the drug may be administered intramuscularly , intravenously or subcutaneously .
When given parenterally , utilization of the vitamin reportedly is best after IM administration , which is the preferred parenteral route .
For intravenous injection , dilution into a large volume parenteral such as Normal Saline or Glucose is recommended to minimize the adverse reactions associated with intravenous injection .
The average protective dose of ascorbic acid for adults is 70 to 150 mg daily .
In the presence of scurvy , doses of 300 mg to 1 gram daily are recommended .
However , as much as 6 grams have been administered parenterally to normal adults without evidence of toxicity .
To enhance wound - healing , doses of 300 to 500 mg daily for a week to ten days , both preoperatively and postoperatively , are generally considered adequate , although considerably larger amounts have been recommended .
In the treatment of burns , doses are governed by the extent of tissue injury .
For severe burns , daily doses of 1 to 2 grams are recommended .
In other conditions in which the need for ascorbic acid is increased , three to five times the daily optimum allowances appear to be adequate .
WARNING PRESSURE MAY DEVELOP WITHIN THE VIAL UPON STORAGE .
Exercise care when withdrawing and / or relieve pressure by first inserting sterile empty syringe into vial thus allowing pressure to equilibrate .
When using dispensing vials use aseptic technique .
Dispense entire contents in aliquots under a laminar flow hood without delay or within 4 hours after entry or discard remaining content after first withdrawal .
Prepare stoppers with a suitable antiseptic solution .
Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit .
Ascorbic Acid for Injection , USP ( 500 mg / mL ) NDC 71414 - 115 - 01 50 mL Sterile Dispensing Vial , individually packaged RX only PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
STORE IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE : Store between 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : FLON LABORATORIES LLC Elkhorn , NE 68022 U . S . A www . flonlabs . com 115 PI Rev . 0517 NDC 71414 - 115 - 01 50 mL Ascorbic Acid Injection , USP 500 mg / mL For Intravenous , Intramuscular or Subcutaneous Use Rx only Vial Each mL contains : Absorbic Acid 500 mg , Disodium Edetate 0 . 25 mg , in Water for Injection q . s ..
pH ( range 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) adjusted with Sodium Bicarbonate and Sodium Hydroxide .
Contains no preservatives .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : See package insert for full prescribing information .
WARNING : Use aseptic techniques .
Dispense entire contents in aliquots under a laminar flow hood without delay or within 4 hours after entry , or discard remaining contents after first withdrawal .
Prepare stoppers with a suitable antiseptic solution .
Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
STORE BETWEEN 2 ° TO 8 ° C ( 36 ° TO 46 ° F ) .
Store in carton until time of use .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
PRESSURE MAY DEVELOP UPON STORAGE .
EXCERCISE CARE WHEN WITHDRAWING .
Manufactured for : FLON Laboratories LLC Elkhorn , NE 68022 U . S . A . www . flonlabs . com Rev : 05 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
