Rx Only DESCRIPTION Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP is a clear , sterile , nonpyrogenic , solution of Caffeine Alkaloid .
Each mL contains : Caffeine ( anhydrous ) 125 mg ; Sodium Benzoate ( added to increase the solubility of Caffeine ) 125 mg ; Water for Injection , USP q . s . pH ( range 6 . 5 to 8 . 5 ) adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
For intramuscular or slow intravenous administration only .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Caffeine is pharmacologically similar to the other xanthine drugs , such as theobromine and theophylline ; however , these three agents differ in the intensity of their actions on various structures .
Caffeine ' s CNS and skeletal muscle effects are greater than those of the other xanthines .
In all other areas , theophylline has greater activity than caffeine , although some studies report that caffeine has greater diuretic effect than theobromine .
The increased levels of intracellular cyclic - AMP mediate most of caffeine ' s pharmacologic actions .
Caffeine competitively inhibits phosphodiesterase , the enzyme that degrades cyclic 3 ' - 5 ' adenosine monophosphate .
Caffeine stimulates all levels of the CNS .
Caffeine ' s cortical effects are milder and of shorter duration than those of the amphetamines .
In slightly larger doses , caffeine stimulates medullary vagal , vasomotor and respiratory centers , promoting bradycardia , vasoconstriction , and increased respiratory rate .
Caffeine produces a positive inotropic effect of the myocardium and a positive chronotropic effect at the sinoatrial node , causing transient increases in heart rate , force of contraction , cardiac output and heart work .
In doses greater than 250 mg , the centrally mediated vagal effects of caffeine may be masked by increased sinus rates ; tachycardia , extrasystoles , or other major ventricular arrhythmias may result .
Caffeine constricts cerebral vasculature .
In contrast , the drug directly dilates peripheral blood vessels , decreasing peripheral vascular resistance .
The effect of this decrease in peripheral vascular resistance ( and possibly that of vagal cardiac stimulation ) on blood pressure is offset by increased cardiac output ( and possibly stimulation of the medullary vasomotor area ) .
The overall effect of caffeine on heart rate and blood pressure depends on whether CNS or peripheral effects predominate .
Therapeutic doses of caffeine increase blood pressure only slightly .
Caffeine stimulates voluntary skeletal muscle , increasing the force of contraction and decreasing muscular fatigue .
The drug also stimulates gastric acid secretion from parietal cells .
Caffeine increases renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate and decreases proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium and water , resulting in mild diuresis .
Caffeine stimulates glycogenolysis and lipolysis , but increase in blood glucose and in plasma lipids are insignificant in normal patients .
Tolerance may develop to the diuretic , cardiovascular , and CNS effects of caffeine .
Pharmacokinetics Caffeine is rapidly distributed throughout the body tissues , readily crossing the placenta and blood - brain barrier .
Approximately 17 % of the drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Caffeine has approximately a half - life ( T ½ ) of 3 - 4 hours in adults .
In adults , the drug is rapidly metabolized in the liver to 1 - methyluric acid , 1 - methylxanthine and 7 - methylxanthine .
Caffeine and its metabolites are excreted primarily by the kidneys .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection has been used in conjunction with supportive measure to treat respiratory depression associated with overdosage with CNS depressant drugs ( e . g . , narcotic analgesics , alcohol ) .
However , because of questionable benefit and transient action , most authorities believe caffeine and other analeptics should not be used in these conditions and recommend other supportive therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
PRECAUTIONS Large doses of caffeine may produce headache , excitement , agitation , a condition resembling anxiety neurosis , scintillating scotoma , hyperesthesia , tinnitus , muscle tremors or twitches , diuresis , tachycardia , extrasystoles , and other cardiac arrhythmias .
Further CNS depression may occur when already depressed patients are too vigorously treated with Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection .
Caffeine and other xanthines may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of ß - adrenergic stimulating agents .
Caffeine has also been reported to increase its own metabolism and that of other drugs , including phenobarbital and aspirin .
Caffeine produces false - positive elevations of serum urate as measured by the Bittner method .
The drug also produces slight increases in urine levels of vanilamandelic acid ( VMA ) , catecholamines , and 5 - hydrocyindoleacetic acid .
Because high urine levels of VMA or catecholamines may result in false - positive diagnosis of pheochromocytoma or neuroblastoma , caffeine intake should be avoided during tests for these disorders .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection .
It is also not known whether Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
OVERDOSAGE Acute toxicity involving caffeine has been reported rarely .
Mild delirium , insomnia , diuresis , dehydration , and fever commonly occur with overdosage .
More serious symptoms of overdosage include cardiac arrhythmias and clonic - tonic convulsions .
In adults , IV doses of 57 mg / kg of body weight and oral doses of 18 . 50 grams have been fatal .
In one 5 - year - old patient , death occurred following oral ingestion of approximately 3 grams of caffeine .
Convulsions may be treated with IV administration of diazepam or a barbiturate such as pentobarbital sodium .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection may be administered by intramuscular or slow intravenous injection .
Some clinicians suggest that when used as a mild CNS stimulant to overcome fatigue , oral doses of 100 - 200 mg of anhydrous caffeine are required .
One manufacturer recommends that citrated caffeine be administered orally in dosages of 65 - 325 mg ( about 32 - 162 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) 3 times daily .
Another manufacturer recommends an oral dosage of 250 mg of anhydrous caffeine in an extended - release formulation once daily , but warns that the drug should not be administered less than 6 hours before retiring .
Analeptic use of caffeine is strongly discouraged by most clinicians .
However , the manufacturer of Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection recommends intramuscular , or in emergency respiratory failure , intravenous injection of 500 mg of the drug ( about 250 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) or a maximum single dose of 1 gram ( about 500 mg of anhydrous caffeine ) for the treatment of respiratory depression associated with overdosage of CNS depressants , including narcotic analgesics and alcohol , and with electric shock .
The usual dose is 0 . 5 g ( 7 ½ grains ) as frequently as directed by the physician .
The maximum safe dose is 0 . 5 g and the total dose in 24 hours should rarely exceed 2 . 5 g . Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP 250 mg / mL NDC 0517 - 2502 - 10 2 mL Single Dose Vials Packed in boxes of 10 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 " C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN2502 Rev . 11 / 05 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label NDC 0517 - 2502 - 01 Rx Only Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP 250 mg / mL ( 125 mg / mL Caffeine ) For IM or Slow IV Use 2 mL Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Labeling NDC 0517 - 2502 - 10 Rx Only Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP 250 mg / mL ( 125 mg / mL Caffeine ) For Intramuscular or Slow Intravenous Use 10 X 2 mL Single - Dose Vials Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
