1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CINVANTI , in combination with other antiemetic agents , is indicated in adults for the prevention of : • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) including high - dose cisplatin as a single - dose regimen .
• delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) as a single - dose regimen .
• nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of MEC as a 3 - day regimen .
CINVANTI is a substance P / neurokinin - 1 ( NK1 ) receptor antagonist , indicated in adults , in combination with other antiemetic agents , for the prevention of : • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) including high - dose cisplatin as a single - dose regimen .
( 1 ) • delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) as a single - dose regimen .
( 1 ) • nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of MEC as a 3 - day regimen .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : CINVANTI has not been studied for treatment of established nausea and vomiting .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • CINVANTI has not been studied for the treatment of established nausea and vomiting .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) : • Administer CINVANTI intravenously as an injection over 2 minutes or an infusion over 30 minutes ; complete the injection or infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
• HEC and MEC ( Single - Dose Regimen ) : The recommended dosage in adults is 130 mg on Day 1 .
• MEC ( 3 - Day Regimen ) : The recommended dosage in adults is 100 mg on Day 1 .
Aprepitant capsules ( 80 mg ) are given orally on Days 2 and 3 .
• CINVANTI is part of a regimen that includes a corticosteroid and a 5 - HT3 antagonist .
Preparation : • See the full prescribing information for instructions .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC and MEC The recommended dosages in adults of CINVANTI , dexamethasone , and a 5 - HT3 antagonist for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with administration of HEC or MEC are shown in Table 1 , Table 2 and Table 3 respectively .
Administer CINVANTI intravenously either by injection over a two ( 2 ) minute period or by infusion over a thirty ( 30 ) minute period on Day 1 , completing the injection or infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
Table 1 .
Recommended Dosage of CINVANTI for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC ( Single - Dose Regimen ) Agent Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 CINVANTI 130 mg intravenously None None None Dexamethasone [ 1 ] 12 mg orally 8 mg orally 8 mg orally twice daily 8 mg orally twice daily 5 - HT3 antagonist See selected 5 - HT3 antagonist prescribing information for recommended dosage None None None [ 1 ] Administer dexamethasone 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
Also administer dexamethasone in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 .
A 50 % dosage reduction of dexamethasone on Days 1 and 2 is recommended to account for a drug interaction with aprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 2 .
Recommended Dosage of CINVANTI for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC ( Single - Dose Regimen ) Agent Day 1 CINVANTI 130 mg intravenously Dexamethasone [ 1 ] 12 mg orally 5 - HT3 antagonist See selected 5 - HT3 antagonist prescribing information for recommended dosage [ 1 ] Administer dexamethasone 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
A 50 % dosage reduction of dexamethasone is recommended to account for a drug interaction with aprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 3 .
Recommended Dosage of CINVANTI for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC ( 3 - Day Regimen with Oral Aprepitant on Days 2 and 3 ) Agent Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 CINVANTI 100 mg intravenously None None Oral Aprepitant None 80 mg orally 80 mg orally Dexamethasone [ 1 ] 12 mg orally None None 5 - HT3 antagonist See selected 5 - HT3 antagonist prescribing information for recommended dosage None None [ 1 ] Administer dexamethasone 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
A 50 % dosage reduction of dexamethasone is recommended to account for a drug interaction with aprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation of CINVANTI for Administration Intravenous Injection over a period of 2 minutes For intravenous injection over a period of 2 minutes , administer 130 mg of CINVANTI as part of a HEC or MEC regimen or 100 mg as part of a MEC regimen as a single dose on Day 1 .
Aseptically withdraw 18 mL for the 130 mg dose or 14 mL for the 100 mg dose from the vial .
Do not dilute .
The infusion line should be flushed with normal saline before and after administration of CINVANTI .
Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 minutes Table 4 includes preparation instructions for CINVANTI for HEC or MEC as a 130 mg single - dose regimen , and for MEC as a 100 mg single - dose followed by 2 days of oral aprepitant as a 3 - day regimen .
Differences in preparation for each dose are displayed as bolded text .
Table 4 .
Preparation Instructions for CINVANTI Intravenous InfusionNote : The differences in preparation for each recommended dosage of CINVANTI are displayed in bolded text ( see Table 1 for HEC Regimen and Table 2 for MEC Regimen ) .
Step 1 Aseptically withdraw 18 mL for the 130 mg dose or 14 mL for the 100 mg dose from the vial and transfer it into an infusion bag [ 1 ] filled with 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose for Injection , USP .
Step 2 Gently invert the bag 4 to 5 times .
Avoid shaking .
Step 3 Before administration , inspect the bag for particulate matter and discoloration .
Discard the bag if particulate and / or discoloration are observed .
[ 1 ] Use only Non - DEHP tubing , non - PVC infusion bags Caution : Do not mix CINVANTI with solutions for which physical and chemical compatibility have not been established .
In - Use Storage Conditions for CINVANTI in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Diluted CINVANTI solution is stable at ambient room temperature for up to 6 hours in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 12 hours in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or up to 72 hours if stored under refrigeration in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
2 . 3 Compatibilities CINVANTI is compatible with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
2 . 4 Incompatibilities CINVANTI is incompatible with any solutions containing divalent cations ( e . g . calcium , magnesium ) , including Lactated Ringer ' s Solution and Hartmann ' s Solution .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injectable emulsion : 130 mg / 18 mL ( 7 . 2 mg / mL ) aprepitant as an opaque , off - white to amber emulsion , in single - dose vial Injectable emulsion : 130 mg / 18 mL ( 7 . 2 mg / mL ) aprepitant in single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CINVANTI is contraindicated in patients : • who are hypersensitive to any component of the product [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• taking pimozide .
Inhibition of CYP3A4 by aprepitant could result in elevated plasma concentrations of pimozide , which is a CYP3A4 substrate , potentially causing serious or life - threatening reactions , such as QT prolongation , a known adverse reaction of pimozide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Concurrent use with pimozide .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • CYP3A4 Interactions : Aprepitant is a substrate , weak - to - moderate ( dose - dependent ) inhibitor and an inducer of CYP3A4 ; see Full Prescribing Information for recommendations regarding contraindications , risk of adverse reactions , and dosage adjustment of CINVANTI and concomitant drugs .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) : May occur during or soon after administration .
If symptoms occur , discontinue CINVANTI and do not reinitiate it .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Warfarin ( a CYP2C9 substrate ) : Risk of decreased INR of prothrombin time ; monitor INR in 2 – week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of CINVANTI .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • Hormonal Contraceptives : Efficacy of contraceptives may be reduced during and for 28 days following administration of aprepitant .
Use effective alternative or back - up methods of non - hormonal contraception .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Clinically Significant CYP3A4 Drug Interactions Aprepitant is a substrate , weak - to - moderate ( dose - dependent ) inhibitor , and an inducer of CYP3A4 .
• Use of CINVANTI with other drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates may result in increased plasma concentration of the concomitant drug .
• Use of pimozide with CINVANTI is contraindicated due to the risk of significantly increased plasma concentrations of pimozide , potentially resulting in prolongation of the QT interval , a known adverse reaction of pimozide [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Use of CINVANTI with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , diltiazem ) may increase plasma concentrations of aprepitant and result in an increased risk of adverse reactions related to CINVANTI .
• Use of CINVANTI with strong CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) may result in a reduction in aprepitant plasma concentrations and decreased efficacy of CINVANTI .
See Table 8 and Table 9 for a listing of potentially significant drug interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis during or soon after administration of CINVANTI have occurred .
Symptoms including dyspnea , eye swelling , flushing , pruritus and wheezing have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients during and after administration .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue CINVANTI and administer appropriate medical therapy .
Do not reinitiate CINVANTI in patients who experience these symptoms with previous use .
5 . 3 Decrease in INR with Concomitant Warfarin Coadministration of CINVANTI with warfarin , a CYP2C9 substrate , may result in a clinically significant decrease in the International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) of prothrombin time [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor the INR in patients on chronic warfarin therapy in the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of CINVANTI with each chemotherapy cycle [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Risk of Reduced Efficacy of Hormonal Contraceptives Upon coadministration with CINVANTI , the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced during administration of and for 28 days following the last dose of CINVANTI [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to use effective alternative or back - up methods of non - hormonal contraception during treatment with CINVANTI and for 1 month following administration of CINVANTI or oral aprepitant , whichever is administered last [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are : • Single - dose fosaprepitant with MEC ( ≥ 2 % ) : fatigue , diarrhea , neutropenia , asthenia , anemia , peripheral neuropathy , leukopenia , dyspepsia , urinary tract infection , pain in extremity .
( 6 . 1 ) • 3 - day oral aprepitant with MEC ( ≥ 1 % and greater than standard therapy ) : fatigue and eructation .
( 6 . 1 ) • Single - dose fosaprepitant with HEC : generally similar to 3 - day oral aprepitant .
In addition , infusion site reactions ( 3 % ) occurred .
( 6 . 1 ) • Single - dose CINVANTI ( ≥ 2 % ) : headache and fatigue .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Heron Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 437 - 6611 and www . CINVANTI . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of CINVANTI was evaluated as a single - dose in healthy subjects and established from adequate and well - controlled studies of intravenous fosaprepitant and / or oral aprepitant [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse reactions observed in these adequate and well - controlled studies are described below .
Safety of CINVANTI A total of 200 healthy subjects received a single 130 mg dose of CINVANTI as a 30 - minute infusion .
Adverse reactions reported in at least 2 % of subjects were headache ( 3 % ) and fatigue ( 2 % ) .
The safety profile of CINVANTI in 50 healthy subjects who received a single 2 - minute injection was similar to that seen with a 30 - minute infusion .
Single - Dose Intravenous Fosaprepitant -- HEC In an active - controlled clinical study in patients receiving HEC , safety was evaluated for 1143 patients receiving a single intravenous dose of fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant , compared to 1169 patients receiving a 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
When administered intravenously , fosaprepitant is converted to aprepitant within 30 minutes .
The safety profile was generally similar to that seen in prior HEC studies with a 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant .
However , infusion - site reactions occurred at a higher incidence in patients in the intravenous fosaprepitant group ( 3 % ) compared to those in the oral aprepitant group ( 0 . 5 % ) .
The reported infusion - site reactions included : infusion - site erythema , infusion - site pruritus , infusion - site pain , infusion - site induration and infusion - site thrombophlebitis .
Adverse reactions associated with oral aprepitant may also be expected to occur with CINVANTI .
See the full prescribing information for oral aprepitant for complete safety information .
Single - Dose Intravenous Fosaprepitant -- MEC In an active - controlled clinical trial in patients receiving MEC , safety was evaluated in 504 patients receiving a single dose of intravenous fosaprepitant in combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone ( intravenous fosaprepitant regimen ) compared to 497 patients receiving ondansetron and dexamethasone alone ( standard therapy ) .
The most common adverse reactions are listed in Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions in Patients Receiving MEC [ 1 ] Intravenous fosaprepitant , ondansetron , and dexamethasone [ 2 ] ( N = 504 ) Ondansetron and dexamethasone [ 3 ] ( N = 497 ) Fatigue 15 % 13 % Diarrhea 13 % 11 % Neutropenia 8 % 7 % Asthenia 4 % 3 % Anemia 3 % 2 % Peripheral Neuropathy 3 % 2 % Leukopenia 2 % 1 % Dyspepsia 2 % 1 % Urinary Tract Infection 2 % 1 % Pain In Extremity 2 % 1 % [ 1 ] Reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with the intravenous fosaprepitant regimen and at a greater incidence than standard therapy .
[ 2 ] Intravenous fosaprepitant regimen [ 3 ] Standard therapy Infusion - site reactions were reported in 2 . 2 % of patients treated with the intravenous fosaprepitant regimen compared to 0 . 6 % of patients treated with standard therapy .
The infusion - site reactions included : infusion - site pain ( 1 . 2 % , 0 . 4 % ) , injection - site irritation ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 0 % ) , vessel puncture - site pain ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 0 % ) , and 8 infusion - site thrombophlebitis ( 0 . 6 % , 0 . 0 % ) , reported in the intravenous fosaprepitant regimen compared to standard therapy , respectively .
3 - Day Oral Aprepitant -- MEC In 2 active - controlled clinical trials in patients receiving MEC , 868 patients were treated with a 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen during Cycle 1 of chemotherapy and 686 of these patients continued into extensions for up to 4 cycles of chemotherapy .
In both studies , oral aprepitant was given in combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone ( oral aprepitant regimen ) and was compared to ondansetron and dexamethasone alone ( standard therapy ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
In the combined analysis of Cycle 1 data for these 2 studies , adverse reactions were reported in approximately 14 % of patients treated with the aprepitant regimen compared with approximately 15 % of patients treated with standard therapy .
Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in 0 . 7 % of patients treated with the aprepitant regimen compared with 0 . 2 % of patients treated with standard therapy .
The most common adverse reactions reported in patients treated with the oral aprepitant regimen with an incidence of at least 1 % and greater than standard therapy are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) in Patients Receiving MEC with a Greater Incidence in the Oral 3 - Day Aprepitant Regimen Relative to Standard Therapy Oral Aprepitant Regimen ( N = 868 ) Standard Therapy ( N = 846 ) Fatigue 1 . 4 0 . 9 Eructation 1 . 0 0 . 1 A listing of adverse reactions reported in less than 1 % in patients treated with the oral aprepitant regimen that occurred at an incidence greater than in patients treated with standard therapy are presented in the Less Common Adverse Reactions subsection below .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions reported in studies in patients treated with the 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen with an incidence < 1 % and greater than standard therapy are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Adverse Reactions ( incidence < 1 % ) in Patients Observed in Studies with a Greater Incidence in the Oral Aprepitant Regimen Relative to Standard TherapyInfection and infestations candidiasis , staphylococcal infection Blood and the lymphatic system disorders anemia , febrile neutropenia Metabolism and nutrition disorders weight gain , polydipsia Psychiatric disorders disorientation , euphoria , anxiety Nervous system disorders dizziness , dream abnormality , cognitive disorder , lethargy , somnolence Eye disorders conjunctivitis Ear and labyrinth disorders tinnitus Cardiac disorders bradycardia , cardiovascular disorder , palpitations Vascular disorders hot flush , flushing Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders pharyngitis , sneezing , cough , postnasal drip , throat irritation Gastrointestinal disorders nausea , acid reflux , dysgeusia , epigastric discomfort , obstipation , gastroesophageal reflux disease , perforating duodenal ulcer , vomiting , abdominal pain , dry mouth , abdominal distension , feces hard , neutropenic colitis , flatulence , stomatitis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders rash , acne , photosensitivity , hyperhidrosis , oily skin , pruritus , skin lesion Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders muscle cramp , myalgia , muscular weakness Renal and urinary disorders polyuria , dysuria , pollakiuria General disorders and administration site condition edema , chest discomfort , malaise , thirst , chills , gait disturbance Investigations alkaline phosphatase increased , hyperglycemia , microscopic hematuria , hyponatremia , weight decreased , neutrophil count decreased In another chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting study , Stevens - Johnson syndrome was reported as a serious adverse reaction in a patient receiving aprepitant with cancer chemotherapy .
The adverse experience profiles in the Multiple - Cycle extensions of HEC and MEC studies for up to 6 cycles of chemotherapy were similar to that observed in Cycle 1 .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of intravenous fosaprepitant and / or intravenous or oral aprepitant .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus , rash , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Nervous system disorders : ifosfamide - induced neurotoxicity reported after aprepitant and ifosfamide coadministration .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for a list of clinically significant drug interactions .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs Aprepitant is a substrate , weak - to - moderate ( dose - dependent ) inhibitor , and an inducer of CYP3A4 .
Aprepitant is also an inducer of CYP2C9 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Some substrates of CYP3A4 are contraindicated with CINVANTI [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Dosage adjustment of some CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrates may be warranted , as shown in Table 8 .
Table 8 .
Effects of Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other DrugsCYP3A4 Substrates Pimozide Clinical Impact Increased pimozide exposure .
Intervention CINVANTI is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Benzodiazepines Clinical Impact Increased exposure to midazolam or other benzodiazepines metabolized via CYP3A4 ( alprazolam , triazolam ) may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Monitor for benzodiazepine - related adverse reactions .
Dexamethasone Clinical Impact Increased dexamethasone exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the dose of oral dexamethasone by approximately 50 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Methylprednisolone Clinical Impact Increased methylprednisolone exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the dose of oral methylprednisolone by approximately 50 % on Days 1 and 2 for patients receiving HEC and on Day 1 for patients receiving MEC .
Reduce the dose of intravenous methylprednisolone by 25 % on Days 1 and 2 for patients receiving HEC and on Day 1 for patients receiving MEC .
Chemotherapeutic Agents that are Metabolized by CYP3A4 Clinical Impact Increased exposure of the chemotherapeutic agent may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Vinblastine , vincristine , or ifosfamide or other chemotherapeutic agents • Monitor for chemotherapeutic - related adverse reactions .
Etoposide , vinorelbine , paclitaxel , and docetaxel • No dosage adjustment needed .
Hormonal Contraceptives Clinical Impact Decreased hormonal exposure during administration of and for 28 days after administration of the last dose of aprepitant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Effective alternative or back - up methods of contraception ( such as condoms or spermicides ) should be used during treatment with CINVANTI and for 1 month following administration of CINVANTI or oral aprepitant , whichever is administered last .
Examples birth control pills , skin patches , implants , and certain IUDs CYP2C9 Substrates Warfarin Clinical Impact Decreased warfarin exposure and decreased prothrombin time ( INR ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention In patients on chronic warfarin therapy , monitor the prothrombin time ( INR ) in the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following administration of CINVANTI with each chemotherapy cycle .
Other Antiemetic Agents 5 - HT3 Antagonists Clinical Impact No change in the exposure of the 5 - HT3 antagonist [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention No dosage adjustment needed .
Examples ondansetron , granisetron , dolasetron 7 . 2 Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Aprepitant Aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Co - administration of CINVANTI with drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 may result in increased or decreased plasma concentrations of aprepitant , respectively , as shown in Table 9 .
Table 9 .
Effects of Other Drugs on Pharmacokinetics of AprepitantModerate to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Significantly increased exposure of aprepitant may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with CINVANTI [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use of CINVANTI .
Examples Moderate inhibitor : diltiazem Strong inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , nelfinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Substantially decreased exposure of aprepitant in patients chronically taking a strong CYP3A4 inducer may decrease the efficacy of CINVANTI [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use of CINVANTI .
Examples rifampin , carbamazepine , phenytoin 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : May cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on CINVANTI use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Avoid use of CINVANTI in pregnant women due to the alcohol content ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats or rabbits exposed during the period of organogenesis to systemic drug concentrations ( area under the plasma - concentration time curve [ AUC ] ) of aprepitant approximately equivalent to the exposure at the recommended human dose ( RHD ) of CINVANTI 130 mg ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions CINVANTI contains alcohol .
Published studies have demonstrated that alcohol is associated with fetal harm including central nervous system abnormalities , behavioral disorders , and impaired intellectual development .
There is no safe level of alcohol exposure in pregnancy ; therefore , avoid use of CINVANTI in pregnant women .
Data Animal Data In embryofetal development studies in rats and rabbits , aprepitant was administered during the period of organogenesis at oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg twice daily ( rats ) and up to the maximum tolerated dose of 25 mg / kg / day ( rabbits ) .
No embryofetal lethality or malformations were observed at any dose level in either species .
The exposures ( AUC ) in pregnant rats at 1000 mg / kg twice daily and in pregnant rabbits at 125 mg / kg / day were approximately equivalent to the exposure at the RHD of CINVANTI 130 mg .
Aprepitant crosses the placenta in rats and rabbits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of aprepitant in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Aprepitant is present in rat milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for CINVANTI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from CINVANTI or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Upon administration of CINVANTI , the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced .
Advise females of reproductive potential using hormonal contraceptives to use an effective alternative or back - up non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms or spermicides ) during treatment with CINVANTI and for 1 month following the last dose of CINVANTI or oral aprepitant , whichever is administered last [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of CINVANTI have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1649 adult cancer patients treated with intravenous fosaprepitant in HEC and MEC clinical studies , 27 % were aged 65 and over , while 5 % were aged 75 and over .
Other reported clinical experience with fosaprepitant and / or oral aprepitant has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , use caution when dosing elderly patients as they have a greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of aprepitant in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment were similar to those of healthy subjects with normal hepatic function .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 9 ) .
There are no clinical or pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score greater than 9 ) .
Therefore , additional monitoring for adverse reactions in these patients may be warranted when CINVANTI is administered [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific information on the treatment of overdosage with aprepitant .
In the event of overdose , CINVANTI should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and monitoring should be provided .
Because of the antiemetic activity of CINVANTI , drug - induced emesis may not be effective in cases of CINVANTI overdosage .
Aprepitant is not removed by hemodialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION CINVANTI injectable emulsion contains the active ingredient , aprepitant .
Aprepitant is a substance P / neurokinin 1 ( NK1 ) receptor antagonist , an antiemetic agent , chemically described as 5 - [ [ ( 2 R , 3 S ) - 2 - [ ( 1 R ) - 1 - [ 3 , 5 - bis ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ] ethoxy ] - 3 - ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) - 4 - morpholinyl ] methyl ] - 1 , 2 - dihydro - 3 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 3 - one .
Its empirical formula is C23H21F7N4O3 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aprepitant is a white to off - white crystalline solid , with a molecular weight of 534 . 43 .
It is practically insoluble in water .
Aprepitant is sparingly soluble in ethanol and isopropyl acetate and slightly soluble in acetonitrile .
CINVANTI ( aprepitant ) injectable emulsion is a sterile , opaque , off - white to amber liquid in a single - dose vial for intravenous use .
Each vial contains 130 mg aprepitant in 18 mL of emulsion .
The emulsion also contains the following inactive ingredients : egg lecithin ( 2 . 61 g ) , dehydrated alcohol ( 0 . 52 g ) , sodium oleate ( 0 . 09 g ) , soybean oil ( 1 . 74 g ) , sucrose ( 0 . 97 g ) , and water for injection ( 12 . 18 g ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Aprepitant is a selective high - affinity antagonist of human substance P / neurokinin 1 ( NK1 ) receptors .
Aprepitant has little or no affinity for serotonin ( 5 - HT3 ) , dopamine , and corticosteroid receptors .
Aprepitant has been shown in animal models to inhibit emesis induced by cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , via central actions .
Animal and human Positron Emission Tomography ( PET ) studies with aprepitant have shown that it crosses the blood brain barrier and occupies brain NK1 receptors .
Animal and human studies show that aprepitant augments the antiemetic activity of the 5 - HT3 - receptor antagonist ondansetron and the corticosteroid dexamethasone and inhibits both the acute and delayed phases of cisplatin - induced emesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , double - blind , positive - controlled , thorough QTc study , a single 200 mg intravenous dose of fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant , had no effect on the QTc interval .
In a cross - study comparison , maximum aprepitant concentrations ( Cmax ) after a single 200 mg dose of fosaprepitant were 1 . 04 - and 1 . 5 - fold higher than that achieved with CINVANTI 130 mg dose and 100 mg dose given as a 30 - minute infusion , respectively .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic parameters following administration of a single intravenous 130 mg dose of CINVANTI administered as a 2 - minute injection or 100 mg or 130 mg dose of CINVANTI administered as a 30 - minute infusion to healthy subjects are summarized in Table 10 .
Table 10 .
Aprepitant Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ( ± Standard Deviation ) ) After Single Dose Intravenous Administration of CINVANTI CINVANTI 130 mg 2 - minute intravenous injection CINVANTI 130 mg 30 - minute intravenous infusion CINVANTI 100 mg 30 - minute intravenous infusion AUC0 - 72 hr ( mcg ∙ hr / mL ) 45 . 6 ( ± 15 . 5 ) 43 . 9 ( ± 12 . 7 ) 27 . 8 ( ± 6 . 5 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 13 . 9 ( ± 3 . 8 ) 6 . 1 ( ± 1 . 5 ) 4 . 3 ( ± 1 . 2 ) Distribution Aprepitant is greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins .
The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady state ( Vdss ) was approximately 70 L in humans .
Aprepitant crosses the blood brain barrier in humans [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism Aprepitant undergoes extensive metabolism .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicate that aprepitant is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 with minor metabolism by CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 .
Metabolism is largely via oxidation at the morpholine ring and its side chains .
No metabolism by CYP2D6 , CYP2C9 , or CYP2E1 was detected .
In healthy young adults , aprepitant accounts for approximately 24 % of the radioactivity in plasma over 72 hours following a single oral 300 mg dose of [ 14 C ] - aprepitant , indicating a substantial presence of metabolites in the plasma .
Seven metabolites of aprepitant , which are only weakly active , have been identified in human plasma .
Excretion Aprepitant is eliminated primarily by metabolism ; aprepitant is not renally excreted .
The apparent terminal half - life ranged from approximately 9 to 13 hours .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Following oral administration of a single 125 mg dose of aprepitant on Day 1 and 80 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 21 % higher on Day 1 and 36 % higher on Day 5 in elderly ( 65 years and older ) relative to younger adults .
The Cmax was 10 % higher on Day 1 and 24 % higher on Day 5 in elderly relative to younger adults .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Male and Female Patients Following oral administration of a single dose of aprepitant ranging from 40 mg to 375 mg , the AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax are 9 % and 17 % higher in females as compared with males .
The half - life of aprepitant is 25 % lower in females as compared with males and Tmax occurs at approximately the same time .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful .
Racial or Ethnic Groups Following oral administration of a single dose of aprepitant , ranging from 40 mg to 375 mg , the AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax are approximately 27 % and 19 % higher in Hispanics as compared with Caucasians .
The AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax were 74 % and 47 % higher in Asians as compared to Caucasians .
There was no difference in AUC0 - 24 hr or Cmax between Caucasians and Blacks .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful .
Patients with Renal Impairment A single 240 mg oral dose of aprepitant was administered to patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 as measured by 24 - hour urinary creatinine clearance ) and to patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring hemodialysis .
In patients with severe renal impairment , the AUC0 - ∞ of total aprepitant ( unbound and protein bound ) decreased by 21 % and Cmax decreased by 32 % , relative to healthy subjects ( creatinine clearance greater than 80 mL / min estimated by Cockcroft - Gault method ) .
In patients with ESRD undergoing hemodialysis , the AUC0 - ∞ of total aprepitant decreased by 42 % and Cmax decreased by 32 % .
Due to modest decreases in protein binding of aprepitant in patients with renal disease , the AUC of pharmacologically active unbound drug was not significantly affected in patients with renal impairment compared with healthy subjects .
Hemodialysis conducted 4 or 48 hours after dosing had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant ; less than 0 . 2 % of the dose was recovered in the dialysate .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Following administration of a single 125 mg oral dose of aprepitant on Day 1 and 80 mg once daily on Days 2 and 3 to patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 11 % lower on Day 1 and 36 % lower on Day 3 , as compared with healthy subjects given the same regimen .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 10 % higher on Day 1 and 18 % higher on Day 3 , as compared with healthy subjects given the same regimen .
These differences in AUC0 - 24 hr are not considered clinically meaningful .
There are no clinical or pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score greater than 9 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Body Mass Index ( BMI ) For every 5 kg / m2 increase in BMI AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax of aprepitant decrease by 9 % and 10 % .
BMI of subjects in the analysis ranged from 18 kg / m2 to 36 kg / m2 .
This change is not considered clinically meaningful .
Drug Interactions Studies Aprepitant is a substrate , and a weak - to - moderate ( dose - dependent ) inhibitor of CYP3A4 .
Aprepitant is also an inducer of CYP3A4 , and CYP2C9 .
Aprepitant is unlikely to interact with drugs that are substrates for the P - glycoprotein transporter .
Effects of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs CYP3A4 Substrates : Midazolam : Fosaprepitant 150 mg ( corresponding to CINVANTI 130 mg ) administered as a single intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0 - ∞ of midazolam by approximately 1 . 8 - fold on Day 1 and had no effect on Day 4 when midazolam was coadministered as a single oral dose of 2 mg on Days 1 and 4 .
Corticosteroids : Dexamethasone : Fosaprepitant administered as a single 150 mg ( corresponding to CINVANTI 130 mg ) intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0 - 24 hr of dexamethasone , administered as a single 8 mg oral dose on Days 1 , 2 , and Day 3 , by approximately 2 - fold on Days 1 and 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Methylprednisolone : When oral aprepitant as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) was administered with intravenous methylprednisolone 125 mg on Day 1 and oral methylprednisolone 40 mg on Days 2 and 3 , the AUC of methylprednisolone was increased by 1 . 34 - fold on Day 1 and by 2 . 5 - fold on Day 3 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Chemotherapeutic agents : Docetaxel : In a pharmacokinetic study , oral aprepitant administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Vinorelbine : In a pharmacokinetic study , oral aprepitant administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of vinorelbine to a clinically significant degree [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
CYP2C9 substrates ( Warfarin , Tolbutamide ) : Warfarin : A single 125 mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 1 and 80 mg / day on Days 2 and 3 to subjects who were stabilized on chronic warfarin therapy .
Although there was no effect of oral aprepitant on the plasma AUC of R ( + ) or S ( - ) warfarin determined on Day 3 , there was a 34 % decrease in S ( - ) warfarin trough concentration accompanied by a 14 % decrease in the prothrombin time ( reported as International Normalized Ratio or INR ) 5 days after completion of dosing with oral aprepitant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Tolbutamide : Oral aprepitant , when given as 125 mg on Day 1 and 80 mg / day on Days 2 and 3 , decreased the AUC of tolbutamide by 23 % on Day 4 , 28 % on Day 8 , and 15 % on Day 15 , when a single dose of tolbutamide 500 mg was administered prior to the administration of the 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant and on Days 4 , 8 , and 15 .
This effect was not considered clinically important .
Other Drugs : Oral contraceptives : When oral aprepitant was administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) with ondansetron and dexamethasone , and coadministered with an oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone , the trough concentrations of both ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were reduced by as much as 64 % for 3 weeks post - treatment [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
P - glycoprotein substrates : Aprepitant is unlikely to interact with drugs that are substrates for the P - glycoprotein transporter , as demonstrated by the lack of interaction of oral aprepitant with digoxin in a clinical drug interaction study .
5 - HT3 antagonists : In clinical drug interaction studies , aprepitant did not have clinically important effects on the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron , granisetron , or hydrodolasetron ( the active metabolite of dolasetron ) .
Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant Rifampin : When a single 375 mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 9 of a 14 - day regimen of 600 mg / day of rifampin , a strong CYP3A4 inducer , the AUC of aprepitant decreased approximately 11 - fold and the mean terminal half - life decreased approximately 3 - fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Ketoconazole : When a single 125 mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 5 of a 10 - day regimen of 400 mg / day of ketoconazole , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , the AUC of aprepitant increased approximately 5 - fold and the mean terminal half - life of aprepitant increased approximately 3 - fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Diltiazem : In a study in 10 patients with mild to moderate hypertension , administration of 100 mg of fosaprepitant as an intravenous infusion with 120 mg of diltiazem , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor administered three times daily , resulted in a 1 . 5 - fold increase in the aprepitant AUC and a 1 . 4 - fold increase in the diltiazem AUC .
When fosaprepitant was administered with diltiazem , the mean maximum decrease in diastolic blood pressure was significantly greater than that observed with diltiazem alone [ 24 . 3 ± 10 . 2 mm Hg with fosaprepitant versus 15 . 6 ± 4 . 1 mm Hg without fosaprepitant ] .
The mean maximum decrease in systolic blood pressure was also greater after co - administration of diltiazem with fosaprepitant than administration of diltiazem alone [ 29 . 5 ± 7 . 9 mm Hg with fosaprepitant versus 23 . 8 ± 4 . 8 mm Hg without fosaprepitant ] .
Co - administration of fosaprepitant and diltiazem ; however , did not result in any additional clinically significant changes in heart rate or PR interval , beyond those changes observed with diltiazem alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Paroxetine : Coadministration of once daily doses of oral aprepitant 170 mg , with paroxetine 20 mg once daily , resulted in a decrease in AUC by approximately 25 % and Cmax by approximately 20 % of both aprepitant and paroxetine .
This effect was not considered clinically important .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in Sprague - Dawley rats and in CD - 1 mice for 2 years .
In the rat carcinogenicity studies , animals were treated with oral doses ranging from 0 . 05 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily .
The highest dose produced systemic exposures to aprepitant approximately equivalent to ( female rats ) or less than ( male rats ) the human exposure at the CINVANTI RHD of 130 mg .
Treatment with aprepitant at doses of 5 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily caused an increase in the incidences of thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in male rats .
In female rats , it produced hepatocellular adenomas at 5 to1000 mg / kg twice daily and hepatocellular carcinomas and thyroid follicular cell adenomas at 125 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily .
In the mouse carcinogenicity studies , the animals were treated with oral doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 2000 mg / kg / day .
The highest dose produced a systemic exposure approximately 2 times the human exposure at the RHD of CINVANTI 130 mg .
Treatment with aprepitant produced skin fibrosarcomas at 125 and 500 mg / kg / day doses in male mice .
Mutagenesis Aprepitant was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the human lymphoblastoid cell ( TK6 ) mutagenesis test , the rat hepatocyte DNA strand break test , the Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosome aberration test and the mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility Oral aprepitant did not affect the fertility or general reproductive performance of male or female rats at doses up to the maximum feasible dose of 1000 mg / kg twice daily ( providing exposure in male rats lower than the exposure at the RHD of CINVANTI 130 mg and exposure in female rats approximately equivalent to the human exposure ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of CINVANTI have been established based on adequate and well - controlled adult studies of a single - dose of intravenous fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant , and a 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant in chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting associated with HEC and MEC , respectively .
Below is a description of the results of these adequate and well - controlled studies of fosaprepitant / aprepitant in these conditions .
14 . 1 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC In a randomized , parallel , double - blind , active - controlled study , 150 mg fosaprepitant as a single intravenous infusion ( N = 1147 ) was compared to a 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen ( N = 1175 ) in patients receiving a HEC regimen that included cisplatin ( ≥ 70 mg / m2 ) .
All patients in both groups received dexamethasone and ondansetron ( see Table 11 ) Patient demographics were similar between the two treatment groups .
Of the total 2322 patients , 63 % were men , 56 % White , 26 % Asian , 3 % American Indian / Alaska Native , 2 % Black , 13 % Multi - Racial , and 33 % Hispanic / Latino ethnicity .
Patient ages ranged from 19 to 86 years of age , with a mean age of 56 years .
Other concomitant chemotherapy agents commonly administered were fluorouracil ( 17 % ) , gemcitabine ( 16 % ) , paclitaxel ( 15 % ) , and etoposide ( 12 % ) .
Table 11 .
Treatment Regimens in HEC Trial [ 1 ] Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Intravenous Fosaprepitant Regimen Fosaprepitant 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy None None None Oral dexamethasone [ 2 ] 12 mg 8 mg 8 mg twice daily 8 mg twice daily Ondansetron Ondansetron [ 3 ] None None None Oral Aprepitant Regimen Aprepitant capsules 125 mg 80 mg 80 mg None Oral dexamethasone [ 4 ] 12 mg 8 mg 8 mg 8 mg Ondansetron Ondansetron null None None None [ 1 ] Fosaprepitant placebo , aprepitant placebo and dexamethasone placebo ( in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 ) were used to maintain blinding .
[ 2 ] Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
Dexamethasone was also administered in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 .
The 12 mg dose of dexamethasone on Day 1 and the 8 mg once daily dose on Day 2 reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the fosaprepitant regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
[ 3 ] Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the clinical trial , this is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
[ 4 ] Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
The 12 mg dose of dexamethasone on Day 1 and the 8 mg once daily dose on Days 2 through 4 reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the oral aprepitant regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The efficacy of a single - dose of intravenous fosaprepitant was evaluated based on the primary and secondary endpoints listed in Table 12 and was shown to be non - inferior to that of the 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen with regard to complete response in each of the evaluated phases .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for complete response in the overall phase was 7 % .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for complete response in the delayed phase was 7 . 3 % .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for no vomiting in the overall phase was 8 . 2 % .
Table 12 .
Percent of Patients Receiving HEC Responding by Treatment Group and Phase — Cycle 1 ENDPOINTS Intravenous Fosaprepitant Regimen ( N = 1106 ) [ 1 ] % Oral aprepitant Regimen ( N = 1134 ) null % Difference [ 2 ] ( 95 % CI ) PRIMARY ENDPOINT Complete Response [ 3 ] Overall [ 4 ] 71 . 9 72 . 3 - 0 . 4 ( - 4 . 1 , 3 . 3 ) SECONDARY ENDPOINTS Complete Response null Delayed phase [ 5 ] 74 . 3 74 . 2 0 . 1 ( - 3 . 5 , 3 . 7 ) No Vomiting Overall null 72 . 9 74 . 6 - 1 . 7 ( - 5 . 3 , 2 . 0 ) [ 1 ] N : Number of patients included in the primary analysis of complete response .
[ 2 ] Difference and Confidence interval ( CI ) were calculated using the method proposed by Miettinen and Nurminen and adjusted for gender .
[ 3 ] Complete Response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy .
[ 4 ] Overall = 0 to 120 hours post - initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy .
[ 5 ] Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post - initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy .
14 . 2 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC Single - Dose Intravenous Fosaprepitant – MEC In a randomized , parallel , double - blind , active comparator - controlled study , 150 mg fosaprepitant as a single intravenous infusion ( N = 502 ) in combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone ( intravenous fosaprepitant regimen ) was compared with ondansetron and dexamethasone alone ( standard therapy ) ( N = 498 ) ( see Table 13 ) in patients receiving a MEC regimen .
Patient demographics were similar between the two treatment groups .
Of the total 1 , 000 patients included in the efficacy analysis , 41 % were men , 84 % White , 4 % Asian , 1 % American Indian / Alaska Native , 2 % Black , 10 % Multi - Racial , and 19 % Hispanic / Latino ethnicity .
Patient ages ranged from 23 to 88 years of age , with a mean age of 60 years .
The most commonly administered MEC chemotherapeutic agents were carboplatin ( 51 % ) , oxaliplatin ( 24 % ) , and cyclophosphamide ( 12 % ) .
Table 13 .
Treatment Regimens in MEC Trial [ 1 ] Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Intravenous Fosaprepitant Regimen Fosaprepitant 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy None None Oral Dexamethasone [ 2 ] 12 mg None None Oral Ondansetron [ 3 ] 8 mg for 2 doses None None Standard Therapy Oral Dexamethasone 20 mg None None Oral Ondansetron null 8 mg for 2 doses 8 mg twice daily 8 mg twice daily [ 1 ] Fosaprepitant placebo and dexamethasone placebo ( on Day 1 ) were used to maintain blinding .
[ 2 ] Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
The 12 mg dose reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the fosaprepitant regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
[ 3 ] The first ondansetron dose was administered 30 to 60 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and the second dose was administered 8 hours after first ondansetron dose .
The primary endpoint was complete response ( defined as no vomiting and no rescue therapy ) in the delayed phase ( 25 to 120 hours ) of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting .
The results by treatment group are shown in Table 14 .
Table 14 .
Percent of Patients Receiving MEC Responding by Treatment GroupENDPOINTS Intravenous Fosaprepitant Regimen ( N = 502 ) [ 1 ] % Standard Therapy Regimen ( N = 498 ) null % p - Value Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) PRIMARY ENDPOINT Complete Response [ 2 ] Delayed phase [ 3 ] 78 . 9 68 . 5 < 0 . 001 10 . 4 ( 5 . 1 , 15 . 9 ) [ 1 ] N : Number of patients included in the intention to treat population .
[ 2 ] Complete Response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy .
[ 3 ] Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post - initiation of chemotherapy .
3 - Day Oral Aprepitant -- MEC In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , clinical study in breast cancer patients , a 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen was compared with a standard of care therapy in patients receiving a MEC regimen that included cyclophosphamide 750 to1500 mg / m2 ; or cyclophosphamide 500 to1500 mg / m2 and doxorubicin ( ≤ 60 mg / m2 ) or epirubicin ( ≤ 100 mg / m2 ) .
Patients ( N = 866 ) were randomized to either the aprepitant regimen ( N = 438 ) or standard therapy ( N = 428 ) .
The treatment regimens are defined in Table 15 .
In this study , the most common chemotherapy combinations were cyclophosphamide plus doxorubicin ( 61 % ) ; and cyclophosphamide plus epirubicin and fluorouracil ( 22 % ) .
Of the 438 patients who were randomized to receive the oral aprepitant regimen , 99 . 5 % were women .
Of these , approximately 80 % were White , 8 % Black , 8 % Asian , 4 % Hispanic , and < 1 % Other .
The aprepitant - treated patients in this clinical study ranged from 25 to 78 years of age , with a mean age of 53 years ; 70 patients were 65 years or older , with 12 patients being over 74 years .
Table 15 .
Treatment Regimens in MEC Trial [ 1 ] Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Oral Aprepitant Regimen Aprepitant 125 mg orally [ 2 ] 80 mg orally 80 mg orally Dexamethasone 12 mg orally [ 3 ] None None Ondansetron 8 mg orally × 2 doses [ 4 ] None None Standard Therapy Dexamethasone 20 mg orally None None Ondansetron 8 mg orally × 2 doses 8 mg orally twice daily 8 mg orally twice daily [ 1 ] Aprepitant placebo and dexamethasone placebo were used to maintain binding .
[ 2 ] 1 hour prior to chemotherapy .
[ 3 ] Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
[ 4 ] Ondansetron was administered 30 to 60 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and 8 hours after first ondansetron dose .
The antiemetic activity of oral aprepitant was evaluated based on the following endpoints in which emetic episodes included vomiting , retching , or dry heaves : Primary endpoint : • complete response ( defined as no emetic episodes and no use of rescue therapy as recorded in patient diaries ) in the overall phase ( 0 to 120 hours post - chemotherapy ) Other prespecified endpoints : • no emesis ( defined as no emetic episodes regardless of use of rescue therapy ) • no nausea ( maximum nausea visual analogue scale [ VAS ] score < 5 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale ) • no significant nausea ( maximum VAS score < 25 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale ) • complete protection ( defined as no emetic episodes , no use of rescue therapy , and a maximum VAS score < 25 mm on a 0 to 100 mm scale ) • complete response during the acute and delayed phases .
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table 16 .
Table 16 .
Percent of Patients Receiving MEC Responding by Treatment Group and Phase – Cycle 1 ENDPOINTS Oral Aprepitant Regimen ( N = 433 ) [ 1 ] % Standard Therapy ( N = 424 ) null % p - Value PRIMARY ENDPOINT [ 2 ] Complete Response 51 42 0 . 015 OTHER PRESPECIFIED ENDPOINTS null No Emesis 76 59 NS [ 3 ] No Nausea 33 33 NS No Significant Nausea 61 56 NS No Rescue Therapy 59 56 NS Complete Protection 43 37 NS [ 1 ] N : Number of patients included in the primary analysis of complete response .
[ 2 ] Overall : 0 to 120 hours post - chemotherapy treatment .
[ 3 ] NS when adjusted for prespecified multiple comparisons rule ; unadjusted p - value < 0 . 001 .
In this study , a statistically significantly ( p = 0 . 015 ) higher proportion of patients receiving the oral aprepitant regimen in Cycle 1 had a complete response ( primary endpoint ) during the overall phase compared with patients receiving standard therapy .
The difference between treatment groups was primarily driven by the " No Emesis Endpoint " , a principal component of this composite primary endpoint .
In addition , a higher proportion of patients receiving the oral aprepitant regimen in Cycle 1 had a complete response during the acute ( 0 to 24 hours ) and delayed ( 25 to 120 hours ) phases compared with patients receiving standard therapy ; however , the treatment group differences failed to reach statistical significance , after multiplicity adjustments .
Additional Patient - Reported Outcomes : In this study , in patients receiving MEC , the impact of nausea and vomiting on patients ' daily lives was assessed in Cycle 1 using the FLIE .
A higher proportion of patients receiving the oral aprepitant regimen reported minimal or no impact on daily life ( 64 % versus 56 % ) .
This difference between treatment groups was primarily driven by the " No Vomiting Domain " of this composite endpoint .
Multiple - Cycle Extension : Patients receiving MEC were permitted to continue into the Multiple - Cycle extension of the study for up to 3 additional cycles of chemotherapy .
Antiemetic effect for patients receiving the aprepitant regimen is maintained during all cycles .
Oral Aprepitant Postmarketing Trial : In another multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , clinical study in 848 cancer patients , the 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen ( N = 430 ) was compared with a standard of care therapy ( N = 418 ) in patients receiving a MEC regimen that included any intravenous dose of oxaliplatin , carboplatin , epirubicin , idarubicin , ifosfamide , irinotecan , daunorubicin , doxorubicin ; intravenous cyclophosphamide ( less than 1500 mg / m2 ) ; or intravenous cytarabine ( greater than 1 g / m2 ) .
Of the 430 patients who were randomized to receive the oral aprepitant regimen , 76 % were women and 24 % were men .
The distribution by race was 67 % White , 6 % Black or African American , 11 % Asian , and 12 % multiracial .
Classified by ethnicity , 36 % were Hispanic and 64 % were non - Hispanic .
The aprepitant - treated patients in this clinical study ranged from 22 to 85 years of age , with a mean age of 57 years ; approximately 59 % of the patients were 55 years or older with 32 patients being over 74 years .
Patients receiving the aprepitant regimen were receiving chemotherapy for a variety of tumor types including 50 % with breast cancer , 21 % with gastrointestinal cancers including colorectal cancer , 13 % with lung cancer and 6 % with gynecological cancers .
The antiemetic activity of aprepitant was evaluated based on no vomiting ( with or without rescue therapy ) in the overall period ( 0 to 120 hours post - chemotherapy ) and complete response ( defined as no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy ) in the overall period .
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table 17 .
Table 17 .
Percent of Patients Receiving MEC Responding by Treatment Group for Study 2 – Cycle 1 ENDPOINTS Oral Aprepitant Regimen ( N = 430 ) [ 1 ] % Standard Therapy ( N = 418 ) null % p - Value No Vomiting Overall 76 62 < 0 . 0001 Complete Response Overall 69 56 0 . 0003 [ 1 ] N = Number of patients who received chemotherapy treatment , study drug , and had at least one post - treatment efficacy evaluation .
In this study , a statistically significantly higher proportion of patients receiving the oral aprepitant regimen ( 76 % ) in Cycle 1 had no vomiting during the overall phase compared with patients receiving standard therapy ( 62 % ) .
In addition , a higher proportion of patients receiving the aprepitant regimen ( 69 % ) in Cycle 1 had a complete response in the overall phase ( 0 to 120 hours ) compared with patients receiving standard therapy ( 56 % ) .
In the acute phase ( 0 to 24 hours following initiation of chemotherapy ) , a higher proportion of patients receiving aprepitant compared to patients receiving standard therapy were observed to have no vomiting ( 92 % and 84 % , respectively ) and complete response ( 89 % and 80 % , respectively ) .
In the delayed phase ( 25 to 120 hours following initiation of chemotherapy ) , a higher proportion of patients receiving aprepitant compared to patients receiving standard therapy were observed to have no vomiting ( 78 % and 67 % , respectively ) and complete response ( 71 % and 61 % , respectively ) .
In a subgroup analysis by tumor type , a numerically higher proportion of patients receiving aprepitant were observed to have no vomiting and complete response compared to patients receiving standard therapy .
For gender , the difference in complete response rates between the aprepitant and standard regimen groups was 14 % in females ( 64 . 5 % and 50 . 3 % , respectively ) and 4 % in males ( 82 . 2 % and 78 . 2 % , respectively ) during the overall phase .
A similar difference for gender was observed for the no vomiting endpoint .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CINVANTI injectable emulsion is supplied as an opaque , off - white to amber emulsion in a single - dose glass vial containing 130 mg / 18 mL ( 7 . 2 mg / mL ) aprepitant : NDC 47426 - 201 - 01 1 single - dose vial per carton Storage CINVANTI injectable emulsion vials must be refrigerated , store at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
CINVANTI injectable emulsion vials can remain at room temperature up to 60 days .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to stop taking CINVANTI and seek immediate medical attention if they experience signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction , such as hives , rash and itching , skin peeling or sores , or difficulty in breathing or swallowing , or dizziness , rapid or weak heartbeat or feeling faint .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to discuss all medications they are taking , including other prescription , non - prescription medication or herbal products [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Warfarin : Instruct patients on chronic warfarin therapy to follow instructions from their healthcare provider regarding blood draws to monitor their INR during the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of CINVANTI with each chemotherapy cycle [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hormonal Contraceptives : Advise patients that administration of CINVANTI may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives .
Instruct patients to use effective alternative or back - up methods of non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicides ) during treatment with CINVANTI and for 1 month following administration of CINVANTI or oral aprepitant , whichever is administered last [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to avoid use of CINVANTI during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Heron Therapeutics , Inc . , San Diego , CA 92121 , USA Patent : https : / / herontx . com / patents / CINVANTI ® is a registered trademark of Heron Therapeutics , Inc .
Copyright © 2017 - 2022 Heron Therapeutics , Inc .
All rights reserved .
PATIENT INFORMATION CINVANTI ® ( sin van ' tee ) ( aprepitant ) injectable emulsion , for intravenous use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : March 2022 What is CINVANTI ?
CINVANTI is a prescription medicine used with other medicines that treat nausea and vomiting in adults to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by certain anti - cancer ( chemotherapy ) medicines .
• CINVANTI is not used to treat nausea and vomiting that you already have .
• It is not known if CINVANTI is safe and effective in children .
Do not receive CINVANTI if you : • are allergic to aprepitant , or any of the ingredients in CINVANTI .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in CINVANTI .
• are taking pimozide ( ORAP ) .
Before receiving CINVANTI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
CINVANTI may harm your unborn baby .
• Women who use birth control medicines containing hormones to prevent pregnancy ( birth control pills , skin patches , implants , and certain IUDs ) should also use a backup method of birth control that does not contain hormones , such as condoms and spermicides , during treatment with CINVANTI and for 1 month after receiving the last dose of CINVANTI .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if CINVANTI passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you receive CINVANTI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
CINVANTI may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way CINVANTI works , causing serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How will I receive CINVANTI ?
• CINVANTI is given on Day 1 .
It will be given to you by intravenous ( IV ) injection or infusion in your vein about 30 minutes before you start your chemotherapy treatment .
• If you take the blood thinner medicine warfarin sodium ( COUMADIN , JANTOVEN ) , your healthcare provider may do blood tests after you receive CINVANTI to check your blood clotting .
What are the possible side effects of CINVANTI ?
CINVANTI may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions . Serious allergic reactions can happen during your CINVANTI infusion .
Tell your healthcare provider or nurse right away if you get any of these symptoms during or soon after your infusion : • trouble breathing or swallowing , shortness of breath or wheezing • swelling of your eyes , face , tongue , or throat • flushing or redness of your face or skin • hives , rash , itching • dizziness , a rapid or weak heartbeat , or you feel faint The most common side effects of CINVANTI include : • tiredness • diarrhea • low white blood cell and red blood cell counts • weakness • feeling weak or numb in your arms and legs • headache • indigestion • urinary tract infection • belching or burping • pain in your arms and legs Infusion - site side effects with CINVANTI may include : pain , hardening , redness or itching at the site of infusion .
Swelling ( inflammation ) of a vein caused by a blood clot can also happen at the infusion site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any infusion - site side effects .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of CINVANTI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of CINVANTI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about CINVANTI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in CINVANTI ?
Active ingredient : aprepitant Inactive ingredients : egg lecithin , dehydrated alcohol ( 3 . 6 % alcohol by volume ) , sodium oleate , soybean oil , sucrose , and water for injection .
Manufactured for : Heron Therapeutics , Inc . , San Diego , CA 92121 , USA Patent : https : / / herontx . com / patents / CINVANTI ® is a registered trademark of Heron Therapeutics , Inc .
Copyright © 2017 - 2022 Heron Therapeutics , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information about CINVANTI call 1 - 844 - 437 - 6611 or go to www . CINVANTI . com .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 130 mg / 18 mL Vial Carton NDC 47426 - 201 - 01 Rx Only CINVANTI ® ( aprepitant ) injectable emulsion 130 mg / 18 mL ( 7 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only Must be refrigerated .
Store at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Do Not Freeze .
1 Sterile Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion HERON THERAPEUTICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 130 mg / 18 mL Vial Carton - Not For Sale NDC 47426 - 201 - 01 Rx Only CINVANTI ® ( aprepitant ) injectable emulsion 130 mg / 18 mL ( 7 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only Must be refrigerated .
Store at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Do Not Freeze .
1 Sterile Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion Not For Sale HERON THERAPEUTICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
