For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only In ADD - Vantage ® Drug Delivery System To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ampicillin and other antibacterial drugs , ampicillin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Ampicillin for Injection , USP the monosodium salt of [ 2 S - [ 2α , 5α , 6β ( S * ) ] ] - 6 - [ ( aminophenylacetyl ) amino ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid , is a synthetic penicillin .
It is an antibacterial agent with a broad spectrum of bactericidal activity against both penicillin - susceptible Gram - positive organisms and many common Gram - negative pathogens .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP is a white to cream - tinged , crystalline powder .
The reconstituted solution is clear , colorless and free from visible particulates .
Each ADD - Vantage ® vial of Ampicillin for Injection , USP contains ampicillin sodium equivalent to 1 gram or 2 grams ampicillin .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP contains 2 . 9 milliequivalents of sodium per gram of ampicillin .
It has the following molecular structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C16H18N3NaO4S , and the molecular weight is 371 . 39 .
The pH range of the reconstituted solution is 8 to 10 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ampicillin for Injection , USP diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids .
However , penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid and brain occurs only when the meninges are inflamed .
Ampicillin is excreted largely unchanged in the urine and its excretion can be delayed by concurrent administration of probenecid .
Due to maturational changes in renal function , ampicillin half - life decreases as postmenstrual age ( a sum of gestational age and postnatal age ) increases for infants with postnatal age of less than 28 days .
The active form appears in the bile in higher concentrations than those found in serum .
Ampicillin is the least serum - bound of all the penicillins , averaging about 20 % compared to approximately 60 to 90 % for other penicillins .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP is well tolerated by most patients and has been given in doses of 2 grams daily for many weeks without adverse reactions .
Microbiology While in vitro studies have demonstrated the susceptibility of most strains of the following organisms , clinical efficacy for infections other than those included in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section has not been demonstrated .
Antibacterial Activity The following bacteria have been shown in in vitro studies to be susceptible to Ampicillin for Injection , USP : Gram - positive Bacteria Hemolytic and nonhemolytic streptococci Streptococcus pneumoniae Nonpenicillinase - producing staphylococci Clostridium spp .
B . anthracis Listeria monocytogenes Most strains of enterococci .
Gram - negative Bacteria H . influenzae N . gonorrhoeae N . meningitidis Proteus mirabilis Many strains of Salmonella , Shigella , and E . coli .
AMPICILLIN does not resist destruction by penicillinase .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ampicillin for Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following conditions : Respiratory Tract Infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinase - producing ) , H . influenzae , and Group A beta - hemolytic Streptococci .
Bacterial Meningitis caused by E . coli , Group B Streptococci , and other Gram - negative bacteria ( Listeria monocytogenes , N . meningitidis ) .
The addition of an aminoglycoside with ampicillin may increase its effectiveness against Gram - negative bacteria .
Septicemia and Endocarditis caused by susceptible Gram - positive organisms including Streptococcus spp . , penicillin G - susceptible staphylococci , and enterococci .
Gram - negative sepsis caused by E . coli , Proteus mirabilis and Salmonella spp .
responds to ampicillin .
Endocarditis due to enterococcal strains usually respond to intravenous therapy .
The addition of an aminoglycoside may enhance the effectiveness of ampicillin when treating streptococcal endocarditis .
Urinary Tract Infections caused by sensitive strains of E . coli and Proteus mirabilis .
Gastrointestinal Infections caused by Salmonella typhi ( typhoid fever ) , other Salmonella spp . , and Shigella spp .
( dysentery ) usually respond to oral or intravenous therapy .
Bacteriology studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to ampicillin should be performed .
Therapy may be instituted prior to obtaining results of susceptibility testing .
It is advisable to reserve the parenteral form of this drug for moderately severe and severe infections and for patients who are unable to take the oral forms .
A change to oral ampicillin may be made as soon as appropriate .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ampicillin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Ampicillin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of a previous hypersensitivity reaction to any of the penicillins is a contraindication .
WARNINGS Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactoid ) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following parenteral therapy , it has occurred in patients on oral penicillins .
These reactions are more apt to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been well - documented reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity reactions who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with a cephalosporin .
Before initiating therapy with a penicillin , careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , and other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTOID REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE , OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including ampicillin for injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General The possibility of superinfections with mycotic organisms or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
In such cases , discontinue the drug and substitute appropriate treatment .
A high percentage ( 43 to 100 percent ) of patients with infectious mononucleosis who receive ampicillin develop a skin rash .
Typically , the rash appears 7 to 10 days after the start of oral ampicillin therapy and remains for a few days to a week after the drug is discontinued .
In most cases , the rash is maculopapular , pruritic , and generalized .
Therefore , the administration of ampicillin is not recommended in patients with mononucleosis .
It is not known whether these patients are truly allergic to ampicillin .
Prescribing Ampicillin for Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including ampicillin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When ampicillin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by ampicillin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests As with any potent drug , periodic assessment of organ system function , including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic , should be made during prolonged therapy .
Transient elevation of serum transaminase has been observed following administration of ampicillin .
The significance of this finding is not known .
Drug Interactions The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of skin rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions With high urine concentrations of ampicillin , false - positive glucose reactions may occur if Clinitest , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution are used .
Therefore , it is recommended that glucose tests based ion enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as Clinistix or Tes - Tape ) be used .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with this drug .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in laboratory animals at doses several times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of adverse effects due to ampicillin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin - class antibiotics are poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pig showed that intravenous administration of ampicillin slightly decreased the uterine tone and frequency of contractions , but moderately increased the height and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether use of these drugs in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
Nursing Mothers Ampicillin is excreted in trace amounts in human milk .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when ampicillin - class antibiotics are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Guidelines for the administration of these drugs to children , including neonates are presented in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS As with other penicillins , it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena .
They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillins and in those with a history of allergy , asthma , hay fever , or urticaria .
The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of ampicillin : Gastrointestinal Glossitis , stomatitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , nausea , vomiting , enterocolitis , pseudomembranous colitis , and diarrhea .
( These reactions are usually associated with oral dosage forms . )
Hypersensitivity Reactions Skin rashes and urticaria have been reported frequently .
A few cases of exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme have been reported .
Anaphylaxis is the most serious reaction experienced and has usually been associated with the parenteral dosage form .
Note : Urticaria , other skin rashes , and serum sickness - like reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , ampicillin should be discontinued , unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to ampicillin therapy .
Serious anaphylactic reactions require the immediate use of epinephrine , oxygen , and intravenous steroids .
Liver – A moderate rise in serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( SGOT ) has been noted , particularly in infants , but the significance of this finding is unknown .
Mild transitory SGOT elevations have been observed in individuals receiving larger ( two to four times ) than usual and oft - repeated intramuscular injections .
Evidence indicates that glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( GOT ) is released at the site of intramuscular injection of ampicillin sodium and that the presence of increased amounts of this enzyme in the blood does not necessarily indicate liver involvement .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems – Anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with the penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
Central Nervous System - Seizures OVERDOSAGE In cases of overdose , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
In patients with renal function impairment , ampicillin - class antibiotics can be removed by hemodialysis but not peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The Single Use ADD - Vantage ® vials are for intravenous use only .
Infections of the respiratory tract and soft tissues .
Patients weighing 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) or more : 250 mg to 500 mg every 6 hours .
Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) : 25 to 50 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses at 6 - to 8 - hour intervals .
Infections of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts ( including those caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae in females ) .
Patients weighing 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) or more : 500 mg every 6 hours .
Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) : 50 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses at 6 - to 8 - hour intervals .
In the treatment of chronic urinary tract and intestinal infections , frequent bacteriological and clinical appraisal is necessary .
Smaller doses than those recommended above should not be used .
Higher doses should be used for stubborn or severe infections .
In stubborn infections , therapy may be required for several weeks .
It may be necessary to continue clinical and / or bacteriological follow - up for several months after cessation of therapy .
Urethritis in males due to N . gonorrhoeae .
Adults – Two doses of 500 mg each at an interval of 8 to 12 hours .
Treatment may be repeated if necessary or extended if required .
In the treatment of complications of gonorrheal urethritis , such as prostatitis and epididymitis , prolonged and intensive therapy is recommended .
Cases of gonorrhea with a suspected primary lesion of syphilis should have darkfield examinations before receiving treatment .
In all other cases where concomitant syphilis is suspected , monthly serological tests should be made for a minimum of four months .
The doses for the preceding infections may be given by either the intramuscular or intravenous route .
A change to oral ampicillin may be made when appropriate .
Bacterial Meningitis Adults and children – 150 to 200 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 3 to 4 hours .
( Treatment may be initiated with intravenous drip therapy and continued with intramuscular injections . )
The doses for other infections may be given by either the intravenous or intramuscular route .
Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) - Dosage should be based on Gestational age and Postnatal age according to Table 3 .
Table 3 Dosage in Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) for Bacterial Meningitis and Septicemia Gestational age ( weeks ) Postnatal age ( days ) Dosage less than or equal to 34 • less than or equal to 7 • 100 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 12 hours less than or equal to 34 • greater than or equal to 8 and less than 28 • 150 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 12 hours greater than 34 • less than or equal to 28 • 150 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 8 hours Septicemia Adults and children – 150 to 200 mg / kg / day .
Start with intravenous administration for at least three days and continue with the intramuscular route every 3 to 4 hours .
Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) - Dosage should be based on Gestational age and Postnatal age according to Table 3 ( above ) .
Treatment of all infections should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
A minimum of 10 days treatment is recommended for any infection caused by Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci to help prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever or acute glomerulonephritis .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE ADD - Vantage ® Vial – ampicillin for injection 1 and 2 grams .
The ADD - Vantage ® vials for intravenous use only are to be used with ADD - Vantage ® diluent containers : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 50 mL and 100 mL , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 50 mL and 100 mL .
Reconstitute ADD - Vantage ® vial as directed in INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE .
Use only freshly prepared solutions .
Intravenous injections should be administered immediately after reconstitution since the potency may decrease .
Summary of Utility Times for Constituted Ampicillin for Injection in the Hospira ADD - Vantage ® System Vial Size IV Solution Final Concentration Utility Times 1 g Vial 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 10 mg / mL 2 Hours at 25 ° C 1 g Vial 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 10 mg / mL 8 Hours at 25 ° C 2 g Vial 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 20 mg / mL 1 Hour at 25 ° C 2 g Vial 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 40 mg / mL 6 Hours at 25 ° C INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open Diluent Container : Peel overwrap from the corner and remove container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • 1 .
Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows : a . To remove the breakaway vial cap , swing the pull ring over the top of the vial and pull down far enough to start the opening ( SEE FIGURE 1 ) , then pull straight up to remove the cap .
( SEE FIGURE 2 . )
NOTE : Do not access vial with syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] b . To remove the vial port cover , grasp the tab on the pull ring , pull up to break the three tie strings , then pull back to remove the cover .
( SEE FIGURE 3 . )
• 2 .
Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no further .
THE VIAL MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL .
This occurs approximately 1 / 2 turn ( 180 ° ) after the first audible click .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
The clicking sound does not assure a seal ; the vial must be turned as far as it will go .
NOTE : Once vial is seated , do not attempt to remove .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
• 3 .
Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further in the direction of assembly .
• 4 .
Label appropriately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To Prepare Admixture : • 1 .
Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial .
• 2 .
With the other hand , push the drug vial down into the container telescoping the walls of the container .
Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls of the container .
( SEE FIGURE 5 . )
• 3 .
Pull the inner cap from the drug vial .
( SEE FIGURE 6 . )
Verify that the rubber stopper has been pulled out , allowing the drug and diluent to mix .
• 4 .
Mix container contents thoroughly and use within the specified time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparation for Administration : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • 1 .
Confirm the activation and admixture of vial contents .
• 2 .
Check for leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
• 3 .
Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• 4 .
Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• 5 .
Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• 6 .
Lift the free end of the hanger loop on the bottom of the vial , breaking the two tie strings .
Bend the loop outward to lock it in the upright position , then suspend container from hanger .
• 7 .
Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• 8 .
Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• 9 .
Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• 10 .
Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Ampicillin for Injection , USP ADD - Vantage ® for intravenous injection .
Ampicillin sodium equivalent to 1 or 2 grams ampicillin per vial .
NDC 0781 - 9412 - 92 1 gram ADD - Vantage ® Vial , packed in 10 s NDC 0781 - 9413 - 92 2 grams ADD - Vantage ® Vial , packed in 10 s Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Clinitest is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
Clinistix is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
Tes - Tape is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly Company .
ADD - Vantage ® is a trademark of Hospira Inc .
Novaplus is a registered trademarks of Vizient , Inc .
Manufactured by Sandoz GmbH for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Rev . March 2020 46266851 1 gram Label NDC 0781 - 9412 - 92 Ampicillin for Injection , USP 1 gram Rx only 10 Single - Dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials For Intravenous Use Only For use only with the ADD - Vantage ® diluent container .
novaplus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 grams Label NDC 0781 - 9413 - 92 Ampicillin for Injection , USP 2 grams Rx only 10 Single - Dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials For Intravenous Use Only For use only with the ADD - Vantage ® diluent container .
novaplus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
