Drug Facts Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 . 0 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • More than one patch on your body at a time • On cut , irritated or swollen skin • On puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor • If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • If pouch is damaged or opened .
When using this product • Use only as directed • Read and follow all directions and warnings on this pack • Do not allow contact with the eyes • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not microwave • Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets • Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • You experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years : Clean and dry affected area .
Remove film from patch ( see illustration ) .
Apply sticky side of patch to affected area .
Use one patch for up to 12 hours .
Discard patch after single use • Children 12 years of age or younger : Consult a physician .
Other Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive Ingredients aluminum glycinate , benzyl alcohol , ethylhexylglycerin , glycerin , kaolin , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , PVP , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water Questions or Comments Call + 91 9212228401 Manufactured By : UNEXO LIFE SCIENCES PVT . LTD .
B - 16 .
Sector 4 , Bawana Industrial Area , Delhi – 110039 ( INDIA ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - One Patch Pouch NDC : 71391 - 151 - 01 PAIN RELIEF 4 % LIDOCAINE PATCH Desensitizes aggravated nerves and relieves pain No - mess Single - use application Easy to apply and remove Stay - put flexible gel patch Unscented 1 PATCH 3 . 93 X 5 . 51 IN ( 10 cm X 14 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
