Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • • helps prevent most athlete ’ s foot with daily use • • for effective relief of itching , burning and cracking Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • • avoid contact with the eyes • • use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
• • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • irritation occurs • • there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • • supervise children in the use of this product • • for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • • use daily for 4 weeks ; if condition persists longer , ask a doctor • • to prevent athlete ’ s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , butylated hydroxytoluene , isobutane , polyethylene glycol 300 , polysorbate 20 Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 723 - 3929 Principal Display Panel Quality Guaranteed Athlete ’ s Foot Spray Tolnaftate 1 % Antifungal LIQUID SPRAY COMPARE TO Tinactin ® Liquid Spray active ingredient Relieves itching and burning Cures and prevents most athlete ’ s foot NET WT 5 . 3 OZ ( 150 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
