[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment in a single dose container for intravenous administration .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
Composition , osmolarity , pH and ionic concentration are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 * Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
Size ( mL ) Composition ( g / L ) * Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( Calc . )
pH Ionic Concentration ( mEq / L ) Sodium Chloride , USP NaCl Potassium Chloride , USP KCl Sodium Potassium Chloride 20 mEq / L Potassium Chloride in 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1000 4 . 5 1 . 5 194 5 . 5 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) 77 20 97 20 mEq / L Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1000 9 1 . 5 348 5 . 5 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) 154 20 174 40 mEq / L Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1000 9 3 388 5 . 5 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) 154 40 194 The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the flexible container can leach out certain of the container ' s chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the container material has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to potassium chloride and / or sodium chloride ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Clinically significant hyperkalemia ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions , including anaphylaxis and chills , have been reported with products containing potassium chloride and sodium chloride .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or infusion reaction develops .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
Electrolyte Imbalances Hyperkalemia Potassium - containing solutions , including Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Hyperkalemia can be asymptomatic and manifest only by increased serum potassium concentrations and / or characteristic electrocardiographic ( ECG ) changes .
Cardiac conduction disorders ( including complete heart block ) and other cardiac arrhythmias , some fatal , can develop at any time during hyperkalemia .
Continuous electrocardiogram ( ECG ) monitoring may be necessary to aid in the detection of cardiac arrhythmias due to hyperkalemia ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
To avoid life threatening hyperkalemia , do not administer Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP as an intravenous push ( i . e . , intravenous injection manually with a syringe connected to the intravenous access ) without a quantitative infusion device .
Patients at increased risk of developing hyperkalemia and cardiac arrhythmias include those : • with conditions predisposing to hyperkalemia and / or associated with increased sensitivity to potassium , such as patients with severe renal impairment , acute dehydration , extensive tissue injury or burns , certain cardiac disorders such as congestive heart failure or atrioventricular ( AV ) block ( especially if they receive digoxin ) .
• who are at risk of experiencing hyperosmolality , acidosis , or undergoing correction of alkalosis ( conditions associated with a shift of potassium from intracellular to extracellular space ) .
• treated concurrently or recently with agents or products that can cause or increase the risk of hyperkalemia ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
• with cardiac arrhythmias .
Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with , or at risk for , hyperkalemia .
If use cannot be avoided , use a product with a low amount of potassium chloride , infuse slowly and monitor serum potassium concentrations and ECGs .
Hypernatremia and Hyperchloremia Electrolyte imbalances such as hypernatremia , hyperchloremia , and metabolic acidosis may occur with Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Conditions that may increase the risk of hypernatremia , fluid overload and edema ( central and peripheral ) , include patients with : primary hyperaldosteronism ; secondary hyperaldosteronism associated with , for example , hypertension , congestive heart failure , liver disease ( including cirrhosis ) , renal disease ( including renal artery stenosis , nephrosclerosis ) ; and pre - eclampsia .
Certain medications , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin , may also increase risk of sodium and fluid retention , see DRUG INTERACTIONS .
Avoid Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with , or at risk for , hypernatremia or hyperchloremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations and acid - base balance .
Rapid correction of hypernatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Excessively rapid correction of hypernatremia is also associated with a risk for serious neurologic complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) with risk of seizures and cerebral edema .
Hyponatremia Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may cause hyponatremia .
Hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy , and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
The risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia is increased in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) treated with high volume of hypotonic Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , those with psychogenic polydipsia , and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as diuretics , certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) .
See DRUG INTERACTIONS .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia such as hyponatremic encephalopathy , include pediatric patients , women ( in particular , premenopausal women ) , patients with hypoxemia , and patients with underlying central nervous system disease .
Avoid Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Brain adaptations reducing risk of cerebral edema make the brain vulnerable to injury when chronic hyponatremia is too rapidly corrected , which is known as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
Fluid Overload Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , and the patient ’ s underlying clinical condition , the intravenous administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause electrolyte disturbances such as overhydration / hypervolemia and congested states including central ( e . g . , pulmonary edema ) and peripheral edema .
Avoid Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance as needed and especially during prolonged use .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Administration of sodium and potassium in patients with or at risk of severe renal impairment , may result in hypernatremia , hyperkalemia and / or fluid overload ( see WARNINGS ) .
Avoid Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with severe renal impairment .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor patients with severe renal impairment for development of these adverse reactions .
Drug Interactions Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP and result in decreased lithium concentrations .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
Other Products that Cause Hyperkalemia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients treated concurrently or recently with products that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia , in particular in the presence of other risk factors for hyperkalemia .
Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving such products ( e . g . , potassium sparing diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or the immunosuppressants cyclosporine and tacrolimus ) .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum potassium concentrations .
Other Products that Affect Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with sodium and fluid retention may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload .
Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving such products , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum electrolytes , fluid balance , and acid - base balance .
Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia .
Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving products , such as diuretics , and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications .
Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Pregnancy There are no adequate and well controlled studies from the use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pregnant or lactating women and animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this drug .
Therefore , it is also not known whether Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients is based on clinical practice .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Safety and effectiveness of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well - controlled studies .
Pediatric patients are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing encephalopathy as a complication of hyponatremia ( see WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk of developing electrolyte imbalances .
Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Therefore , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Consider monitoring renal function in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because postmarketing reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General disorders and administration site conditions : Chills , and infusion site pain .
Hypersensitivity reactions : generalized papules and erythema , rash , fever , vomiting , hypertension , tachycardia .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Hyperkalemia , hyponatremia , hypernatremia , hyperchloremia acidosis , fluid overload .
Cardiac disorders : Cardiac arrest as a manifestation of rapid intravenous administration and / or of hyperkalemia .
Nervous System Disorders : Hyponatremic encephalopathy .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE An increased infusion rate of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause : • hyperkalemia , manifestations may include disturbances in cardiac conduction and arrhythmias , including bradycardia , heart block , asystole , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation .
The presence of any ECG findings that are suspected to be caused by hyperkalemia should be considered a medical emergency .
If hyperkalemia is present or suspected , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute close ECG , laboratory and other monitoring and , as necessary , corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium concentrations .
Muscle weakness ( up to and including muscular and respiratory paralysis , paresthesia of extremities ) may occur as a complication of hyperkalemia .
• hyponatremia , manifestations may include seizures , coma , cerebral edema and death .
• hypernatremia , especially in patients with severe renal impairment .
• hypotension .
• gastrointestinal symptoms ( ileus , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain ) .
• fluid overload ( which can lead to central and / or peripheral edema ) .
See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
When assessing an overdose , any additives in the solution must also be considered .
The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment .
Interventions include discontinuation of Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP administration , dose reduction , and other measures as indicated for the specific clinical constellation ( e . g . , monitoring of fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions • Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is intended for intravenous infusion using sterile equipment .
• To avoid life threatening hyperkalemia , do not administer Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP as an intravenous push ( i . e . , intravenous injection manually with a syringe connected to the intravenous access ) without a quantitative infusion device ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Do not connect flexible plastic containers in series in order to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container .
• Set the vent to the closed position on a vented intravenous administration set to prevent air embolism .
• Use a dedicated line without any connections to avoid air embolism .
• Do not pressurize intravenous solutions contained in flexible plastic containers to increase flow rates in order to avoid air embolism due to incomplete evacuation of residual air in the container .
• The choice of a central or peripheral venous route of infusion should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of greater than or equal to approximately 900 mOsm / L must be infused through a central catheter .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
• Use of final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions , where possible .
Dosing Information The choice of the specific potassium chloride and sodium chloride formulation , dosage , volume , rate and duration of administration is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical and metabolic condition of the patient and concomitant therapy , and administration should be determined by a physician experienced in intravenous fluid therapy .
Additional electrolyte supplementation may be indicated according to the clinical needs of the patient .
Additives can be introduced to the container ; however , some additives may be incompatible .
Evaluate all additions to the plastic container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with a pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
After addition , if there is a discoloration and / or the appearance of precipitates , insoluble complexes or crystals , do not use .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
Discard any unused portion .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia and hypernatremia is potentially dangerous ( risk of serious neurologic complications ) .
To avoid complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) during administration , follow the important administration instructions , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers as follows : Product Code Unit of Use Strength Unit of Sale 683110 NDC 63323 - 683 - 01 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag 20 mEq Potassium Chloride in 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride NDC 63323 - 683 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags 686110 NDC 63323 - 686 - 01 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag 20 mEq Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride NDC 63323 - 686 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags 688110 NDC 63323 - 688 - 01 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag 40 mEq Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride NDC 63323 - 688 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored between 20ºC to 25 ° C ( 68º F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
; brief exposure up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) does not adversely affect the product .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
Flexible Plastic Container ( freeflex ® bag ) To Open • Turn solution container over so that the text is face down .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
To Add Medication Prior to Solution Administration • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Prepare medication site • Insert an 18 to 23 gauge needle horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close the clamp on the set • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container • Immediately before injecting additives , if the Cap has not been broken off , break off WHITE Additive Port cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using a syringe with an 18 to 23 gauge needle , horizontally insert through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
• Using aseptic technique , repeat steps 4 - 7 as necessary .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Norway www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451701 Issued : February 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Potassium Chloride in 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Bag Label freeflex ® NDC 63323 - 683 - 01 1000 mL 20 mEq Potassium Chloride ( 20 mEq / L ) Potassium Chloride in 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Bag Label freeflex ® NDC 63323 - 686 - 01 1000 mL 20 mEq Potassium Chloride ( 20 mEq / L ) Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Bag Label freeflex ® NDC 63323 - 688 - 01 1000 mL 40 mEq Potassium Chloride ( 40 mEq / L ) Potassium Chloride in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
