1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Plan B ® is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
To obtain optimal efficacy , the first tablet should be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours of intercourse .
The second tablet should be taken 12 hours later .
Plan B is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Plan B is not indicated for routine use as a contraceptive .
Plan B is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive , indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Plan B is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Plan B is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet of Plan B orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
The second tablet should be taken 12 hours after the first dose .
Plan B can be used at any time during the menstrual cycle .
If vomiting occurs within two hours of taking either dose of medication , consideration should be given to repeating the dose .
The first tablet is taken orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
The second tablet should be taken 12 hours after the first dose .
Efficacy is better if Plan B is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each Plan B tablet is supplied as a white , round tablet containing 0 . 75 mg of levonorgestrel and is marked with INOR on one side .
A total of two 0 . 75 mg tablets taken 12 hours apart as a single course of treatment ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Plan B is contraindicated for use in the case of known or suspected pregnancy .
Known or suspected pregnancy .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Ectopic Pregnancy : Women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Plan B should be evaluated for ectopic pregnancy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Plan B is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Effect on menses : Plan B may alter the next expected menses .
If menses is delayed beyond 1 week , pregnancy should be considered .
( 5 . 3 ) • STI / HIV : Plan B does not protect against STI / HIV .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Ectopic Pregnancy Ectopic pregnancies account for approximately 2 % of all reported pregnancies .
Up to 10 % of pregnancies reported in clinical studies of routine use of progestin - only contraceptives are ectopic .
A history of ectopic pregnancy is not a contraindication to use of this emergency contraceptive method .
Healthcare providers , however , should consider the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Plan B .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Plan B . 5 . 2 Existing Pregnancy Plan B is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
5 . 3 Effects on Menses Some women may experience spotting a few days after taking Plan B . Menstrual bleeding patterns are often irregular among women using progestin - only oral contraceptives and women using levonorgestrel for postcoital and emergency contraception .
If there is a delay in the onset of expected menses beyond 1 week , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
5 . 4 STI / HIV Plan B does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) or other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
5 . 5 Physical Examination and Follow - up A physical examination is not required prior to prescribing Plan B .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Plan B . 5 . 6 Fertility Following Discontinuation A rapid return of fertility is likely following treatment with Plan B for emergency contraception ; therefore , routine contraception should be continued or initiated as soon as possible following use of Plan B to ensure ongoing prevention of pregnancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in the clinical trial included menstrual changes ( 26 % ) , nausea ( 23 % ) , abdominal pain ( 18 % ) , fatigue ( 17 % ) , headache ( 17 % ) , dizziness ( 11 % ) and breast tenderness ( 11 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Barr Laboratories at 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
A double - blind , controlled clinical trial in 1 , 955 evaluable women compared the efficacy and safety of Plan B ( one 0 . 75 mg tablet of levonorgestrel taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse , and one tablet taken 12 hours later ) to the Yuzpe regimen ( two tablets each containing 0 . 25 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 05 mg ethinyl estradiol , taken within 72 hours of intercourse , and two tablets taken 12 hours later ) .
The most common adverse events ( > 10 % ) in the clinical trial for women receiving Plan B included menstrual changes ( 26 % ) , nausea ( 23 % ) , abdominal pain ( 18 % ) , fatigue ( 17 % ) , headache ( 17 % ) , dizziness ( 11 % ) , and breast tenderness ( 11 % ) .
Table 1 lists those adverse events that were reported in ≥ 5 % of Plan B users .
Table 1 : Adverse Events in ≥ 5 % of Women , by % Frequency Plan B Levonorgestrel N = 977 ( % ) Nausea 23 . 1 Abdominal Pain 17 . 6 Fatigue 16 . 9 Headache 16 . 8 Heavier Menstrual Bleeding 13 . 8 Lighter Menstrual Bleeding 12 . 5 Dizziness 11 . 2 Breast Tenderness 10 . 7 Vomiting 5 . 6 Diarrhea 5 . 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Plan B . Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain , Nausea , Vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Nervous System Disorders Dizziness , Headache Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea , Irregular Menstruation , Oligomenorrhea , Pelvic Pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins , and may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with progestin - only pills or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , such as CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Small amounts of progestin pass into the breast milk of nursing women taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
( 8 . 3 ) • Plan B is not intended for use in pediatric ( premenarcheal ) ( 8 . 4 ) or postmenopausal women ( 8 . 5 ) .
• Clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in the Chinese population .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Many studies have found no harmful effects on fetal development associated with long - term use of contraceptive doses of oral progestins .
The few studies of infant growth and development that have been conducted with progestin - only pills have not demonstrated significant adverse effects .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers In general , no adverse effects of progestin - only pills have been found on breastfeeding performance or on the health , growth or development of the infant .
However , isolated post - marketing cases of decreased milk production have been reported .
Small amounts of progestins pass into the breast milk of nursing mothers taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of progestin - only pills for long - term contraception have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 16 and for users 16 years and older .
Use of Plan B emergency contraception before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women .
8 . 6 Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race .
However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Plan B . 8 . 8 Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Plan B . 9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Levonorgestrel is not a controlled substance .
There is no information about dependence associated with the use of Plan B . 10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data on overdosage of Plan B , although the common adverse event of nausea and associated vomiting may be anticipated .
11 DESCRIPTION Each Plan B tablet contains 0 . 75 mg of a single active steroid ingredient , levonorgestrel [ 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one - 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - ( - ) - ] , a totally synthetic progestogen .
The inactive ingredients present are colloidal silicon dioxide , potato starch , gelatin , magnesium stearate , talc , corn starch , and lactose monohydrate .
Levonorgestrel has a molecular weight of 312 . 45 , and the following structural and molecular formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Emergency contraceptive pills are not effective if a woman is already pregnant .
Plan B is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization ( by altering tubal transport of sperm and / or ova ) .
In addition , it may inhibit implantation ( by altering the endometrium ) .
It is not effective once the process of implantation has begun .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No specific investigation of the absolute bioavailability of Plan B in humans has been conducted .
However , literature indicates that levonorgestrel is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability about 100 % ) and is not subject to first pass metabolism .
After a single dose of Plan B ( 0 . 75 mg ) administered to 16 women under fasting conditions , maximum serum concentrations of levonorgestrel were 14 . 1 + 7 . 7 ng / mL ( mean + SD ) at an average of 1 . 6 + 0 . 7 hours .
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values Following Single Dose Administration of Plan B ( Levonorgestrel ) Tablets 0 . 75 mg to Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( h ) CL ( L / h ) Vd ( L ) t ½ ( h ) AUCinf ( ng / mL .
h ) Levonorgestrel 14 . 1 ( 7 . 7 ) 1 . 6 ( 0 . 7 ) 7 . 7 ( 2 . 7 ) 260 . 0 24 . 4 ( 5 . 3 ) 123 . 1 ( 50 . 1 ) Cmax = maximum concentration Tmax = time to maximum concentration CL = clearance Vd = volume of distribution t1 / 2 = elimination half life AUCinf = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity Effect of Food : The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel absorption following single oral administration of Plan B has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg .
It is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate conjugates and , to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16βhydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
Specific Populations Pediatric : This product is not intended for use in the pediatric ( pre - menarcheal ) population , and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Geriatric : This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Race : No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race on pharmacokinetics of Plan B . However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Plan B . Renal Impairment : No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Plan B . Drug - Drug Interactions No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Plan B [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity : There is no evidence of increased risk of cancer with short - term use of progestins .
There was no increase in tumorgenicity following administration of levonorgestrel to rats for 2 years at approximately 5 µg / day , to dogs for 7 years at up to 0 . 125 mg / kg / day , or to rhesus monkeys for 10 years at up to 250 µg / kg / day .
In another 7 year dog study , administration of levonorgestrel at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day did increase the number of mammary adenomas in treated dogs compared to controls .
There were no malignancies .
Genotoxicity : Levonorgestrel was not found to be mutagenic or genotoxic in the Ames Assay , in vitro mammalian culture assays utilizing mouse lymphoma cells and Chinese hamster ovary cells , and in an in vivo micronucleus assay in mice .
Fertility : There are no irreversible effects on fertility following cessation of exposures to levonorgestrel or progestins in general .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double - blind , randomized , multinational controlled clinical trial in 1 , 955 evaluable women ( mean age 27 ) compared the efficacy and safety of Plan B ( one 0 . 75 mg tablet of levonorgestrel taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse , and one tablet taken 12 hours later ) to the Yuzpe regimen ( two tablets each containing 0 . 25 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 05 mg ethinyl estradiol , taken within 72 hours of intercourse , and two additional tablets taken 12 hours later ) .
After a single act of intercourse occurring anytime during the menstrual cycle , the expected pregnancy rate of 8 % ( with no contraceptive use ) was reduced to approximately 1 % with Plan B . Emergency contraceptives are not as effective as routine hormonal contraception since their failure rate , while low based on a single use , would accumulate over time with repeated use [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) ] .
At the time of expected menses , approximately 74 % of women using Plan B had vaginal bleeding similar to their normal menses , 14 % bled more than usual , and 12 % bled less than usual .
The majority of women ( 87 % ) had their next menstrual period at the expected time or within + 7 days , while 13 % had a delay of more than 7 days beyond the anticipated onset of menses .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Plan B ( levonorgestrel ) tablets , 0 . 75 mg , are available for a single course of treatment in PVC / aluminum foil blister packages of two tablets each .
The tablet is white , round and marked INOR on one side .
Available as : Unit - of - use NDC 54868 - 4894 - 0 Store Plan B tablets at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Information for Patients • Take Plan B as soon as possible and not more than 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• If you vomit within two hours of taking either tablet , immediately contact your healthcare provider to discuss whether to take another tablet .
• Seek medical attention if you experience severe lower abdominal pain 3 to 5 weeks after taking Plan B , in order to be evaluated for an ectopic pregnancy .
• After taking Plan B , consider the possibility of pregnancy if your period is delayed more than one week beyond the date you expected your period .
• Do not use Plan B as routine contraception .
• Plan B is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
• Plan B does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases / infections .
• For women younger than age 17 years , Plan B is available only by prescription .
Mfg . by Gedeon Richter , Ltd . , Budapest , Hungary for Duramed Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Pomona , New York 10970 Phone : 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 Website : www . go2planb . com BR - 0038 / 11001288 Revised July 2009 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 4894 - 0 Plan B ® ( LEVONORGESTREL ) tablets 0 . 75 mg Emergency Contraceptive 2 Levonorgestrel Tablets 0 . 75 mg each The sooner you take the first tablet , the better Plan B ® will work Not for regular birth control .
Plan B ® should be used only in emergencies .
1 Take first tablet as soon as possible , within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
2 Take second tablet 12 hours after taking first tablet .
TIME REMINDER Write on line below , the time the first tablet is taken .
Take second tablet 12 hours later AM / PM ( circle one ) Reduces the chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a regular birth control method fails or after sex without birth control ) .
Rx only for women younger than age 17 Take the first tablet as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take the first tablet , the better Plan B ® will work .
Take the second tablet 12 hours later .
Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Purpose Levonorgestrel 0 . 75 mg ......................
Emergency contraceptive Use reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • women 17 years of age or older : • take the first tablet as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take the first tablet , the better it will work .
• take the second tablet 12 hours after you take the first tablet • if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat that dose • prescription only for women younger than age 17 .
If you are younger than age 17 , see a healthcare professional .
Other information • before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • this product is not recommended for regular birth control .
It does not work as well as most other birth control methods used correctly .
• this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• when used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of pregnancy and the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
See condom labeling for additional STD information .
• tablets are enclosed in a blister seal .
Do not use if the blister seal is broken .
• store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch , talc Questions or comments ?
For more information or to speak to a healthcare professional , call 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 , 24 hours a day / 7 days a week .
Visit our Web site at www . go2planb . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
