Fluor - Op ® ( FLUOROMETHOLONE OPHTHALMIC SUSPENSION , USP ) 0 . 1 % DESCRIPTION FLUOR - OP ( fluorometholone ophthalmic suspension , USP ) 0 . 1 % , is a topical anti - inflammatory agent for ophthalmic use .
Chemical Name : 9 - fluoro - 11ß , 17 - dihydroxy - 6α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains : Fluorometholone 0 . 1 % with : polyvinyl alcohol 1 . 4 % ; benzalkonium chloride 0 . 004 % , edetate disodium ; sodium chloride ; sodium phosphate monobasic , monohydrate ; sodium phosphate dibasic , anhydrous ; polysorbate 80 ; sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Corticosteroids are capable of producing a rise in intraocular pressure .
In clinical studies on patients ' eyes treated with both dexamethasone and fluorometholone 0 . 1 % suspensions , fluorometholone demonstrated a lower propensity to increase intraocular pressure than did dexamethasone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE FLUOR - OP is indicated for the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive inflammation of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea and anterior segment of the globe .
CONTRAINDICATIONS FLUOR - OP suspension is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
FLUOR - OP suspension is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent untreated infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Corticosteroids are not effective in mustard gas keratitis and Sjögren ’ s keratoconjunctivitis .
PRECAUTIONS General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 milliliters of FLUOR - OP suspension should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information to the Patient If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the possibility of these effects with fluorometholone .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects .
Pregnancy Category C Fluorometholone has been shown to be embryocidal and teratogenic in rabbits when administered at low multiples of the human ocular dose .
Fluorometholone was applied ocularly to rabbits daily on days 6 - 18 of gestation , and dose related fetal loss and fetal abnormalities including cleft palate , deformed rib cage , anomalous limbs and neural abnormalities such as encephalocele , craniorachischisis , and spina bifida were observed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fluorometholone in pregnant women , and it is not known whether fluorometholone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant women .
Fluorometholone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from fluorometholone , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of two years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions include , in decreasing order of frequency , elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , and delayed wound healing .
Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon , there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical steroids .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute uveitis and perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following use of corticosteroids .
The development of secondary ocular infection ( bacterial , fungal and viral ) has occurred .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac two to four times daily .
During the initial 24 to 48 hours , the dosage may be increased to one application every four hours .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The dosing of FLUOR - OP suspension may be reduced , but care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
In chronic conditions , withdrawal of treatment should be carried out by gradually decreasing the frequency of applications .
HOW SUPPLIED FLUOR - OP ( fluorometholone ophthalmic suspension , USP ) 0 . 1 % is supplied in plastic dropper bottles in the following sizes : 5 mL … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
NDC 58768 - 358 - 05 10 mL … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 58768 - 358 - 10 15 mL … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 58768 - 358 - 15 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Shake well before using .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Rx only Mfd .
by OMJ Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , San Germán , P . R . , 00683 for : Novartis Ophthalmics Duluth , GA 30097 6069 - B
