DESCRIPTION CPM / PE / DM Syrup is a sugar - free , alcohol - free , grape flavored syrup for oral administration for adults and for pediatric patients 2 years and older .
Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains : Chlorpheniramine maleate … … … … … … .
4 . 0 mg Phenylephrine hydrochloride … … … … … .
12 . 5 mg Dextromethorphan hydrobromide … … … ..
15 . 0 mg Inactive ingredients : Citric acid , D & C Red No . 33 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium saccharin , and sorbitol .
May contain sodium citrate .
Chlorpheniramine maleate is an antihistamine with the chemical name : 2 - Pyridinepropanamine , y - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - N , N - dimethyl - , ( Z ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 1 : 1 ) .
Its chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride is a mydriatic and a decongestant with the chemical name : ( - ) - m - Hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride .
Its chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dextromethorphan hydrobromide is an antitussive with the chemical name 3 - Methoxy - 17 - methyl - 9α , 13α , 14α - morphinan hydrobromide monohydrate .
Its structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Antihistaminic , decongestant and antitussive actions .
Chlorpheniramine maleate possesses H1 antihistaminic activity and mild anticholinergic and sedative effects .
Peak plasma concentration is reached in 5 hours .
Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination .
The liver is assumed to be the major site of metabolic transformation .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an oral sympathomimetic amine that acts as a decongestant to respiratory tract mucous membranes .
While its vasoconstrictor action is similar to that of ephedrine , phenylephrine has less pressor effect in normotensive adults .
Serum half - life for phenylephrine is 6 to 8 hours .
Acidic urine is associated with faster elimination of the drug .
About one - half of the administered dose is excreted in the urine .
Dextromethorphan hydrobromide is a non - narcotic antitussive with effectiveness equal to codeine .
It acts in the medulla oblongata to elevate the cough threshold .
Dextromethorphan does not produce analgesia or induce tolerance , and has no potential for addiction .
At usual doses , it will not depress respiration or inhibit ciliary activity .
Dextromethorphan is rapidly metabolized with trace amounts of the parent compound in blood and urine .
About one - half of the administered dose is excreted in the urine as conjugated metabolites .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms , including nasal congestion , associated with allergy or the common cold .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to any of its ingredients .
Sympathomimetic amines are contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension , severe coronary artery disease and patients on monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy .
Antihistamines are contraindicated in patients with narrow angle glaucoma , urinary retention , peptic ulcer and during an asthma attack .
Dextromethorphan should not be used in patients receiving a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Sympathomimetic amines should be used judiciously and sparingly in patients with hypertension , diabetes , ischemic heart disease , hyperthyroidism , increased intraocular pressure or prostatic hypertrophy ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Sympathomimetic amines may produce CNS stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension .
The elderly ( 60 years and older ) are more likely to exhibit adverse reactions .
Antihistamines may cause excitability , especially in children .
At doses higher than the recommended dose , nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness may occur .
Administration of dextromethorphan may be accompanied by histamine release and should be used with caution in atopic children .
PRECAUTIONS General : Before prescribing medication to suppress or modify cough , identify and provide therapy for the underlying cause of the cough and take caution that modification of cough does not increase the risk of clinical or physiologic complications .
Dextromethorphan should be used with caution in sedated or debilitated patients and in patients confined to supine positions .
Use with caution in patients with hypertension , heart disease , asthma , hyperthyroidism , increased intraocular pressure , diabetes mellitus and prostatic hypertrophy .
Information for Patients : Avoid alcohol and other CNS depressants while taking this product .
Patients sensitive to antihistamines may experience moderate to severe drowsiness .
Patients sensitive to sympathomimetic amines may notice mild CNS stimulation .
Antihistamines may impair mental and physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
Patients should be warned accordingly .
Drug Interactions : Antihistamines may enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants , barbiturates , alcohol and other CNS depressants .
MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines .
Sympathomimetic amines may reduce the antihypertensive effects of reserpine , veratrum alkaloids , methyldopa and mecamylamines .
Effects of sympathomimetics are increased with MAO inhibitors and beta - adrenergic blockers .
The cough - suppressant action of dextromethorphan and narcotic antitussives are additive .
Dextromethorphan is contraindicated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS section . )
Use in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with CPM / PE / DM Syrup .
It is not known whether these products can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or affect reproduction capacity .
Give to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether the drugs in CPM / PE / DM Syrup are excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious side effects in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the use of these products , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Antihistamines may cause sedation , dizziness , diplopia , vomiting , diarrhea , dry mouth , headache , nervousness , nausea , anorexia , heartburn , weakness , polyuria and dysuria and , rarely , excitability in children .
Urinary retention may occur in patients with prostatic hypertrophy .
Sympathomimetic amines may cause convulsions , CNS stimulation , cardiac arrhythmia , respiratory difficulties , increased heart rate or blood pressure , hallucinations , tremors , nervousness , insomnia , pallor and dysuria .
Dextromethorphan may cause drowsiness , dizziness and GI disturbance .
OVERDOSAGE No information is available as to specific results of an overdose of CPM / PE / DM Syrup .
The signs , symptoms and treatments described below are those of H1 antihistamine , ephedrine , and dextromethorphan overdose .
Symptoms : Should antihistamine effects predominate , central action constitutes the greatest danger .
In the small child , predominant symptoms are excitation , hallucination , ataxia , incoordination , tremors , flushed face and fever .
Convulsions , fixed and dilated pupils , coma and death may occur in severe cases .
In the adult , fever and flushing are uncommon ; excitement leading to convulsions and postictal depression is often preceded by drowsiness and coma .
Respiration is usually not seriously depressed ; blood pressure is usually stable .
Should sympathomimetic symptoms predominate , central effects include restlessness , dizziness , tremor , hyperactive reflexes , talkativeness , irritability and insomnia .
Cardiovascular and renal effects include difficulty in micturition , headache , flushing , palpitation , cardiac arrhythmia , hypertension with subsequent hypotension and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal effects include dry mouth , metallic taste , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Dextromethorphan may cause respiratory depression with a large overdose .
Treatment : ( a ) Evacuate stomach as condition warrants .
Activated charcoal may be useful .
( b ) Maintain a nonstimulating environment .
( c ) Monitor cardiovascular status .
( d ) Do not give stimulants .
( e ) Reduce fever with cool sponging .
( f ) Treat respiratory depression with naloxone if dextromethorphan toxicity is suspected .
( g ) Use sedatives or anticonvulsants to control CNS excitation and convulsions .
( h ) Physostigmine may reverse anticholinergic symptoms .
( i ) Ammonium chloride may acidify the urine to increase urinary excretion of phenylephrine .
( j ) Further care is symptomatic and supportive .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CHLORPHENIRAMINE / PHENYLEPHRINE / DEXTROMETHORPHAN Syrup ( CPM / PE / DM Syrup ) Adults and Children 12 years of age and older : 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 3 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours .
Children 2 to under 6 years of age : 1 / 4 teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 1 . 5 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours .
Not recommended for use in children under 2 years of age .
In mild cases or in particularly sensitive patients , less frequent or reduced doses may be appropriate and adequate .
HOW SUPPLIED CHLORPHENIRAMINE / PHENYLEPHRINE / DEXTROMETHORPHAN Syrup ( CPM / PE / DM Syrup ) CPM / PE / DM Syrup is sugar - free , alcohol - free , and grape flavored .
It is available in bottles of 16 fluid ounce ( 473 mL ) bottles - NDC 21695 - 900 - 16 .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in USP with a child resistant closure .
STORAGE REQUIREMENTS Store at Controlled Room Temperature between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid exposure to heat .
Keep tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Manufactured by : Silarx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 USA Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
