Drug Facts Active ingredients Homosalate 10 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Oxybenzone 4 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Purpose : Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protective measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in sun from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Isohexadecane , Dimethicone / Bis - Isobutyl PPG - 20 Crosspolymer , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Fragrance , Tocopheryl Acetate , Bisabolol .
Questions or Comments ?
Contact : ( 781 ) 281 - 0954 A clear broad spectrum UVA / UVB protective gel that is rapidly absorbed by the skin .
When applied to the skin it leaves nothing but a smooth velvety touch without any whitish residue .
No greasy after - feel is left on the skin which makes this gel optimal for all skin types ( including men who tend to prefer an invisible cream ) .
Vitamin E serves as an antioxidant in this formula to minimize free radical damage , which is very important during exposure to UV light .
PRODUCT OF ISRAEL Distributed by : Anna Lotan USA Inc . 16 Wheeling Ave . Woburn , MA 01801 info @ annalotanusa . com www . annalotanusa . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
