DESCRIPTION : Protexa Cream ( 42 % Urea ) is a keratolytic emollient which is gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram contains 42 % Urea , Water , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil , Glycerin , Ceteary Alcohol , Polysorbate 60 , Dimethicone , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Propylene Glycol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Xanthan Gum , Citric Acid .
Urea Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics : The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : This product is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , xerosis , ichthyosis , skin cracks and fissures , dermatitis , eczema , psoriasis , keratoses and calluses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product WARNINGS : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the use of this product .
CALL YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply to affected area ( s ) twice per day or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
HOW SUPPLIED : Protexa Cream ( 42 % Urea ) is available as follows : 45 g container , NDC 69336 - 810 - 45 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Distributed By : Sterling - Knight Pharmaceuticals , LLC Ripley , MS 38663 Item : 810 Rev . 09 / 19 Protexa Urea 42 % Cream - Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Protexa Urea 42 % Cream - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
