Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • ▪ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • ▪ temporarily relieves : • ▪ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • ▪ the intensity of coughing • ▪ the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • ▪ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided • ▪ do not use dosing cup with other products • ▪ mL = milliliter Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 5 mL – 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 2 . 5 mL – 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • ▪ each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • ▪ Tamper - evident : do not use if printed inner seal under cap is torn or missing • ▪ store at room temperature • ▪ do not refrigerate • ▪ dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients Anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Red # 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton NDC 63868 - 771 - 04 Compare to the Active ingredient in Children ’ s Mucinex Cough * Children ' s Mucus & Cough Relief Cough Suppressant Expectorant Dextromethorphan HBr Guaifenesin Each Dose of Cherry Flavored Children ' s Mucus & Cough Relief : Controls Cough Relieves Chest Congestion Breaks up Mucus Alcohol - free See New Dosing information Cherry Flavor 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
DOSAGE CUP INCLUDED Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Children ’ s Mucinex .
® QC 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
