Active ingredients ( in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) ) Codeine phosphate USP 10 mg Guaifenesin USP 100 mg Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold or inhaled irritants • relieves your cough to help you sleep • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves cough associated with the common cold Warnings Ask your Doctor if : • you have a persistent or chronic cough , this may be a sign of a serious condition • you have a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • you have a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) • you have chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath • giving to a child who is taking other drugs When using this product • giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor could result in serious side effects for your child .
A special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age • may cause or aggravate constipation Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not improve within 7 days , tend to recur or are accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These may be symptoms of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 tsp ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 tsp ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Cherry flavor , citric acid , ededate disodium , FD & C red # 40 , glycerin , maltodextrin , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate dihydrate , sorbitol , sucralose DISTRIBUTED BY : ATLANTIC BIOLOGICALS CORP .
20101 N . E 16 TH PLACE MIAMI , FL 33179 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 17856 - 0208 - 1 CODEINE PHOSPHATE - GUAIFENESIN ORAL SOL 10 - 100 mg / mL CUP 72 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
