Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 03 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions ( 5 . 2 ) 03 / 2007 Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2007 Special populations ( 5 . 6 ) 03 / 2007 1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate tablets , USP are indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets , USP have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies .
( 1 ) Zolpidem tartrate tablets , USP are indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets , USP have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 4 - 5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment .
2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult dose : 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Elderly / debilitated patients / hepatically impaired : 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime ( 2 . 2 ) • Downward dosage adjustment may be necessary when used with CNS depressants ( 2 . 3 ) • Should not be taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2 . 4 ) The dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets should be individualized .
2 . 1 Dosage in adults The recommended dose for adults is 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime .
The total zolpidem tartrate dose should not exceed 10 mg per day .
2 . 2 Special populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate .
Patients with hepatic insufficiency do not clear the drug as rapidly as normal subjects .
The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate in both of these patient populations is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 3 Use with CNS depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are combined with other CNS depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 4 Administration The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 5 mg and 10 mg tablets .
Tablets not scored .
( 3 ) Zolpidem tartrate tablets are available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration .
Tablets are not scored .
Zolpidem tartrate 5 mg tablets are red colored , capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and ‘ 5 MG ’ debossed on the other side .
Zolpidem tartrate 10 mg tablets are peach - yellow colored , capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and ‘ 10 MG ’ debossed on the other side .
4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or to any of the inactive ingredients in the formulation ( 4 . 1 ) Zolpidem tartrate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or to any of the inactive ingredients in the formulation .
Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Need to evaluate for co - morbid diagnosis : Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use ( 5 . 1 ) • Severe anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions : Angioedema and anaphylaxis have been reported .
Do not rechallenge if such reactions occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Abnormal thinking , behavioral changes and complex behaviors : May include " sleep - driving " and hallucinations .
Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes .
( 5 . 3 ) • Depression : Worsening of depression or , suicidal thinking may occur .
Prescribe the least amount feasible to avoid intentional overdose ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) • Withdrawal effects : Symptoms may occur with rapid dose reduction or discontinuation ( 5 . 4 , 9 . 3 ) • CNS depressant effects : Use can impair alertness and motor coordination .
If used in combination with other CNS depressants , dose reductions may be needed due to additive effects .
Do not use with alcohol ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 5 ) • Elderly / debilitated patients : Use lower dose due to impaired motor , cognitive performance and increased sensitivity ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) • Patients with hepatic impairment , mild to moderate COPD , impaired drug metabolism or hemodynamic responses , mild to moderate sleep apnea : Use with caution and monitor closely .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Need to evaluate for co - morbid diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative / hypnotic drugs , including zolpidem .
5 . 2 Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue , glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem .
Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea , throat closing or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis .
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department .
If angioedema involves the throat , glottis or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with zolpidem should not be rechallenged with the drug .
5 . 3 Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes A variety of abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported to occur in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
Some of these changes may be characterized by decreased inhibition ( e . g . , aggressiveness and extroversion that seemed out of character ) , similar to effects produced by alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Visual and auditory hallucinations have been reported as well as behavioral changes such as bizarre behavior , agitation and depersonalization .
In controlled trials , < 1 % of adults with insomnia who received zolpidem reported hallucinations .
In a clinical trial , 7 . 4 % of pediatric patients with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , who received zolpidem reported hallucinations [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Complex behaviors such as " sleep - driving " ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a sedative - hypnotic , with amnesia for the event ) have been reported with sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem .
These events can occur in sedative - hypnotic - naive as well as in sedative - hypnotic - experienced persons .
Although behaviors such as " sleep - driving " may occur with zolpidem tartrate tablets alone at therapeutic doses , the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with zolpidem tartrate tablets appears to increase the risk of such behaviors , as does the use of zolpidem tartrate tablets at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose .
Due to the risk to the patient and the community , discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate tablets should be strongly considered for patients who report a " sleep - driving " episode .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with " sleep - driving " , patients usually do not remember these events .
Amnesia , anxiety and other neuro - psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably .
In primarily depressed patients , worsening of depression , including suicidal thoughts and actions ( including completed suicides ) , has been reported in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced , spontaneous in origin , or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder .
Nonetheless , the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation .
5 . 4 Withdrawal effects Following the rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuation of sedative / hypnotics , there have been reports of signs and symptoms similar to those associated with withdrawal from other CNS - depressant drugs [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
5 . 5 CNS depressant effects Zolpidem tartrate tablets , like other sedative / hypnotic drugs , have CNS - depressant effects .
Due to the rapid onset of action , zolpidem tartrate tablets should only be taken immediately prior to going to bed .
Patients should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness or motor coordination such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after ingesting the drug , including potential impairment of the performance of such activities that may occur the day following ingestion of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets showed additive effects when combined with alcohol and should not be taken with alcohol .
Patients should also be cautioned about possible combined effects with other CNS - depressant drugs .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are administered with such agents because of the potentially additive effects .
5 . 6 Special populations Use in the elderly and / or debilitated patients : Impaired motor and / or cognitive performance after repeated exposure or unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs is a concern in the treatment of elderly and / or debilitated patients .
Therefore , the recommended zolpidem tartrate tablets dosage is 5 mg in such patients to decrease the possibility of side effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
These patients should be closely monitored .
Use in patients with concomitant illness : Clinical experience with zolpidem tartrate tablets in patients with concomitant systemic illness is limited .
Caution is advisable in using zolpidem tartrate tablets in patients with diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses .
Although studies did not reveal respiratory depressant effects at hypnotic doses of zolpidem in normal subjects or in patients with mild to moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , a reduction in the Total Arousal Index together with a reduction in lowest oxygen saturation and increase in the times of oxygen desaturation below 80 % and 90 % was observed in patients with mild - to - moderate sleep apnea when treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 10 mg ) when compared to placebo .
Since sedative / hypnotics have the capacity to depress respiratory drive , precautions should be taken if zolpidem tartrate tablets are prescribed to patients with compromised respiratory function .
Post - marketing reports of respiratory insufficiency , most of which involved patients with pre - existing respiratory impairment , have been received .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets should be used with caution in patients with sleep apnea syndrome or myasthenia gravis .
Data in end - stage renal failure patients repeatedly treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets did not demonstrate drug accumulation or alterations in pharmacokinetic parameters .
No dosage adjustment in renally impaired patients is required ; however , these patients should be closely monitored [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
A study in subjects with hepatic impairment did reveal prolonged elimination in this group ; therefore , treatment should be initiated with 5 mg in patients with hepatic compromise , and they should be closely monitored [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use in patients with depression : As with other sedative / hypnotic drugs , zolpidem tartrate tablets should be administered with caution to patients exhibiting signs or symptoms of depression .
Suicidal tendencies may be present in such patients and protective measures may be required .
Intentional over - dosage is more common in this group of patients ; therefore , the least amount of drug that is feasible should be prescribed for the patient at any one time .
Use in pediatric patients : Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem have not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week study in pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with ADHD , zolpidem did not decrease sleep latency compared to placebo .
Hallucinations were reported in 7 . 4 % of the pediatric patients who received zolpidem ; none of the pediatric patients who received placebo reported hallucinations [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most commonly observed adverse reactions were : Short - term ( < 10 nights ) : Drowsiness , dizziness , and diarrhea Long - term ( 28 - 35 nights ) : Dizziness and drugged feelings ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Torrent Pharma Inc . at 1 - 269 - 544 - 2299 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following serious reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Serious anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Abnormal thinking , behavior changes , and complex behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Withdrawal effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • CNS - depressant effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical trials experience Associated with discontinuation of treatment : Approximately 4 % of 1 , 701 patients who received zolpidem at all doses ( 1 . 25 to 90 mg ) in U . S . premarketing clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse reaction .
Reactions most commonly associated with discontinuation from U . S . trials were daytime drowsiness ( 0 . 5 % ) , dizziness ( 0 . 4 % ) , headache ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 6 % ) , and vomiting ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Approximately 4 % of 1 , 959 patients who received zolpidem at all doses ( 1 to 50 mg ) in similar foreign trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse reaction .
Reactions most commonly associated with discontinuation from these trials were daytime drowsiness ( 1 . 1 % ) , dizziness / vertigo ( 0 . 8 % ) , amnesia ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 5 % ) , headache ( 0 . 4 % ) , and falls ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Data from a clinical study in which selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) - treated patients were given zolpidem revealed that four of the seven discontinuations during double - blind treatment with zolpidem ( n = 95 ) were associated with impaired concentration , continuing or aggravated depression , and manic reaction ; one patient treated with placebo ( n = 97 ) was discontinued after an attempted suicide .
Most commonly observed adverse reactions in controlled trials : During short - term treatment ( up to 10 nights ) with zolpidem tartrate tablets at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were drowsiness ( reported by 2 % of zolpidem patients ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) , and diarrhea ( 1 % ) .
During longer - term treatment ( 28 to 35 nights ) with zolpidem at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were dizziness ( 5 % ) and drugged feelings ( 3 % ) .
Adverse reactions observed at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in controlled trials : The following tables enumerate treatment - emergent adverse reactions frequencies that were observed at an incidence equal to 1 % or greater among patients with insomnia who received zolpidem tartrate and at a greater incidence than placebo in U . S . placebo - controlled trials .
Events reported by investigators were classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms for the purpose of establishing event frequencies .
The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice , in which patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in these clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigators involving related drug products and uses , since each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions .
However , the cited figures provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the incidence of side effects in the population studied .
The following table was derived from results of 11 placebo - controlled short - term U . S . efficacy trials involving zolpidem in doses ranging from 1 . 25 to 20 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials Lasting up to 10 Nights ( Percentage of patients reporting ) Zolpidem Body System / ( ≤ 10 mg ) Placebo Adverse Event * ( N = 685 ) ( N = 473 ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets and at a greater frequency than placebo .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 7 6 Drowsiness 2 - Dizziness 1 - Gastrointestinal System Diarrhea 1 - The following table was derived from results of three placebo - controlled long - term efficacy trials involving zolpidem tartrate tablets .
These trials involved patients with chronic insomnia who were treated for 28 to 35 nights with zolpidem at doses of 5 , 10 , or 15 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
The table includes only adverse events occurring at an incidence of at least 1 % for zolpidem patients .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials Lasting up to 35 Nights ( Percentage of patients reporting ) Zolpidem Body System / ( ≤ 10 mg ) Placebo Adverse Event * ( N = 152 ) ( N = 161 ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets and at a greater frequency than placebo .
Autonomic Nervous System Dry mouth 3 1 Body as a Whole Allergy 4 1 Back Pain 3 2 Influenza - like symptoms 2 - Chest pain 1 - Cardiovascular System Palpitation 2 - Central and Peripheral Nervous System Drowsiness 8 5 Dizziness 5 1 Lethargy 3 1 Drugged feeling 3 - Lightheadedness 2 1 Depression 2 1 Abnormal dreams 1 - Amnesia 1 - Sleep disorder 1 - Gastrointestinal System Diarrhea 3 2 Abdominal pain 2 2 Constipation 2 1 Respiratory System Sinusitis 4 2 Pharyngitis 3 1 Skin and Appendages Rash 2 1 Dose relationship for adverse reactions : There is evidence from dose comparison trials suggesting a dose relationship for many of the adverse reactions associated with zolpidem use , particularly for certain CNS and gastrointestinal adverse events .
Adverse event incidence across the entire preapproval database : Zolpidem tartrate tablets were administered to 3 , 660 subjects in clinical trials throughout the U . S . , Canada , and Europe .
Treatment - emergent adverse events associated with clinical trial participation were recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing .
To provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing treatment - emergent adverse events , similar types of untoward events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized event categories and classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms .
The frequencies presented , therefore , represent the proportions of the 3 , 660 individuals exposed to zolpidem , at all doses , who experienced an event of the type cited on at least one occasion while receiving zolpidem .
All reported treatment - emergent adverse events are included , except those already listed in the table above of adverse events in placebo - controlled studies , those coding terms that are so general as to be uninformative , and those events where a drug cause was remote .
It is important to emphasize that , although the events reported did occur during treatment with zolpidem tartrate tablets , they were not necessarily caused by it .
Adverse events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in greater than 1 / 100 subjects ; infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients ; rare events are those occurring in less than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Autonomic nervous system : Infrequent : increased sweating , pallor , postural hypotension , syncope .
Rare : abnormal accommodation , altered saliva , flushing , glaucoma , hypotension , impotence , increased saliva , tenesmus .
Body as a whole : Frequent : asthenia .
Infrequent : edema , falling , fatigue , fever , malaise , trauma .
Rare : allergic reaction , allergy aggravated , anaphylactic shock , face edema , hot flashes , increased ESR , pain , restless legs , rigors , tolerance increased , weight decrease .
Cardiovascular system : Infrequent : cerebrovascular disorder , hypertension , tachycardia .
Rare : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , arteritis , circulatory failure , extrasystoles , hypertension aggravated , myocardial infarction , phlebitis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary edema , varicose veins , ventricular tachycardia .
Central and peripheral nervous system : Frequent : ataxia , confusion , euphoria , headache , insomnia , vertigo .
Infrequent : agitation , anxiety , decreased cognition , detached , difficulty concentrating , dysarthria , emotional lability , hallucination , hypoesthesia , illusion , leg cramps , migraine , nervousness , paresthesia , sleeping ( after daytime dosing ) , speech disorder , stupor , tremor .
Rare : abnormal gait , abnormal thinking , aggressive reaction , apathy , appetite increased , decreased libido , delusion , dementia , depersonalization , dysphasia , feeling strange , hypokinesia , hypotonia , hysteria , intoxicated feeling , manic reaction , neuralgia , neuritis , neuropathy , neurosis , panic attacks , paresis , personality disorder , somnambulism , suicide attempts , tetany , yawning .
Gastrointestinal system : Frequent : dyspepsia , hiccup , nausea .
Infrequent : anorexia , constipation , dysphagia , flatulence , gastroenteritis , vomiting .
Rare : enteritis , eructation , esophagospasm , gastritis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , rectal hemorrhage , tooth caries .
Hematologic and lymphatic system : Rare : anemia , hyperhemoglobinemia , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , macrocytic anemia , purpura , thrombosis .
Immunologic system : Infrequent : infection .
Rare : abscess , herpes simplex , herpes zoster , otitis externa , otitis media .
Liver and biliary system : Infrequent : abnormal hepatic function , increased SGPT .
Rare : bilirubinemia , increased SGOT .
Metabolic and nutritional : Infrequent : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Rare : gout , hypercholesteremia , hyperlipidemia , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased BUN , periorbital edema .
Musculoskeletal system : Frequent : arthralgia , myalgia .
Infrequent : arthritis .
Rare : arthrosis , muscle weakness , sciatica , tendinitis .
Reproductive system : Infrequent : menstrual disorder , vaginitis .
Rare : breast fibroadenosis , breast neoplasm , breast pain .
Respiratory system : Frequent : upper respiratory infection .
Infrequent : bronchitis , coughing , dyspnea , rhinitis .
Rare : bronchospasm , epistaxis , hypoxia , laryngitis , pneumonia .
Skin and appendages : Infrequent : pruritus .
Rare : acne , bullous eruption , dermatitis , furunculosis , injection - site inflammation , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria .
Special senses : Frequent : diplopia , vision abnormal .
Infrequent : eye irritation , eye pain , scleritis , taste perversion , tinnitus .
Rare : conjunctivitis , corneal ulceration , lacrimation abnormal , parosmia , photopsia .
Urogenital system : Frequent : urinary tract infection .
Infrequent : cystitis , urinary incontinence .
Rare : acute renal failure , dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia , polyuria , pyelonephritis , renal pain , urinary retention .
7 .
Drug Interactions : • CNS depressants : Enhanced CNS - depressant effects with combination use .
Use with alcohol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7 . 1 ) • Imipramine : Decreased alertness observed with combination use .
( 7 . 1 ) • Chlorpromazine : Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed with combination use ( 7 . 1 ) • Rifampin : Combination use decreases exposure to and effects of zolpidem ( 7 . 2 ) • Ketoconazole : Combination use increases exposure to and effect of zolpidem ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 CNS active drugs Since the systematic evaluations of zolpidem in combination with other CNS - active drugs have been limited , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of any CNS - active drug to be used with zolpidem .
Any drug with CNS - depressant effects could potentially enhance the CNS - depressant effect of zolpidem .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets were evaluated in healthy subjects in single - dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs .
Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20 % decrease in peak levels of imipramine , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness .
Similarly , chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance .
A study involving haloperidol and zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
The lack of a drug interaction following single - dose administration does not predict a lack following chronic administration .
An additive effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and zolpidem was demonstrated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem 10 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg at steady - state levels in male volunteers did not demonstrate any clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions .
When multiple doses of zolpidem and fluoxetine at steady - state concentrations were evaluated in healthy females , the only significant change was a 17 % increase in the zolpidem half - life .
There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance .
Following five consecutive nightly doses of zolpidem 10 mg in the presence of sertraline 50 mg ( 17 consecutive daily doses , at 7 : 00 am , in healthy female volunteers ) , zolpidem Cmax was significantly higher ( 43 % ) and Tmax was significantly decreased ( 53 % ) .
Pharmacokinetics of sertraline and N - desmethylsertraline were unaffected by zolpidem .
7 . 2 Drugs that affect drug metabolism via cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to inhibit CYP3A may increase exposure to zolpidem .
The effect of inhibitors of other P450 enzymes has not been carefully evaluated .
A randomized , double - blind , crossover interaction study in ten healthy volunteers between itraconazole ( 200 mg once daily for 4 days ) and a single dose of zolpidem ( 10 mg ) given 5 hours after the last dose of itraconazole resulted in a 34 % increase in AUC0 - ∞ of zolpidem .
There were no significant pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem on subjective drowsiness , postural sway , or psychomotor performance .
A randomized , placebo - controlled , crossover interaction study in eight healthy female subjects between five consecutive daily doses of rifampin ( 600 mg ) and a single dose of zolpidem ( 20 mg ) given 17 hours after the last dose of rifampin showed significant reductions of the AUC ( – 73 % ) , Cmax ( – 58 % ) , and T1 / 2 ( – 36 % ) of zolpidem together with significant reductions in the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem .
A randomized double - blind crossover interaction study in twelve healthy subjects showed that co - administration of a single 5 mg dose of zolpidem tartrate with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , given as 200 mg twice daily for 2 days increased Cmax of zolpidem by a factor of 1 . 3 and increased the total AUC of zolpidem by a factor of 1 . 7 compared to zolpidem alone and prolonged the elimination half - life by approximately 30 % along with an increase in the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem .
Caution should be used when ketoconazole is given with zolpidem and consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when ketoconazole and zolpidem are given together .
Patients should be advised that use of zolpidem tartrate tablets with ketoconazole may enhance the sedative effects .
7 . 3 Other drugs with no interaction with zolpidem A study involving cimetidine / zolpidem and ranitidine / zolpidem combinations revealed no effect of either drug on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
Zolpidem had no effect on digoxin pharmacokinetics and did not affect prothrombin time when given with warfarin in normal subjects .
7 . 4 Drug - laboratory tests interactions Zolpidem is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
In addition , clinical data indicate that zolpidem does not cross - react with benzodiazepines , opiates , barbiturates , cocaine , cannabinoids , or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screens .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , zolpidem may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : Zolpidem is excreted in human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
Hallucinations ( incidence rate 7 . 4 % ) and other psychiatric and / or nervous system adverse reactions were observed frequently in a study of pediatric patients with Attention - Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder ( 5 . 6 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of zolpidem tartrate tablets in pregnant women .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Administration of zolpidem to pregnant rats and rabbits resulted in adverse effects on offspring development at doses greater than the zolpidem tartrate tablets maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 10 mg / day ( approximately 8 mg / day zolpidem base ) ; however , teratogenicity was not observed .
When zolpidem was administered at oral doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg ( approximately 5 , 24 and 120 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , dose - related decreases in fetal skull ossification occurred at all but the lowest dose , which is approximately 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
In rabbits treated during organogenesis with zolpidem at oral doses of 1 , 4 , and 16 mg base / kg ( approximately 2 . 5 , 10 and 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , increased embryo - fetal death and incomplete fetal skeletal ossification occurred at the highest dose .
The no - effect dose for embryo - fetal toxicity in rabbits is approximately 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Administration of zolpidem to rats at oral doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg ( approximately 5 , 24 and 120 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during the latter part of pregnancy and throughout lactation produced decreased offspring growth and survival at all but the lowest dose , which is approximately 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Neonatal Complications Studies in children to assess the effects of prenatal exposure to zolpidem have not been conducted ; however , cases of severe neonatal respiratory depression have been reported when zolpidem was used at the end of pregnancy , especially when taken with other CNS depressants .
Children born to mothers taking sedative - hypnotic drugs may be at some risk for withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Neonatal flaccidity has also been reported in infants born to mothers who received sedative - hypnotic drugs during pregnancy .
8 . 2 Labor and delivery Zolpidem tartrate tablets have no established use in labor and delivery [ see Pregnancy ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing mothers Zolpidem is excreted in human milk .
Studies in lactating mothers indicate that the half - life of zolpidem is similar to that in non - lactating women ( 2 . 6 ± 0 . 3 hr ) .
The effect of zolpidem on the nursing infant is not known .
Caution should be exercised when zolpidem tartrate tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem have not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week controlled study , 201 pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( 90 % of the patients were using psychoanaleptics ) were treated with an oral solution of zolpidem ( n = 136 ) , or placebo ( n = 65 ) .
Zolpidem did not significantly decrease latency to persistent sleep , compared to placebo , as measured by polysomnography after 4 weeks of treatment .
Psychiatric and nervous system disorders comprised the most frequent ( > 5 % ) treatment emergent adverse reactions observed with zolpidem versus placebo and included dizziness ( 23 . 5 % vs . 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 12 . 5 % vs . 9 . 2 % ) , and hallucinations ( 7 . 4 % vs . 0 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Ten patients on zolpidem ( 7 . 4 % ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction .
8 . 5 Geriatric use A total of 154 patients in U . S . controlled clinical trials and 897 patients in non - U . S . clinical trials who received zolpidem were ≥ 60 years of age .
For a pool of U . S . patients receiving zolpidem at doses of ≤ 10 mg or placebo , there were three adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of at least 3 % for zolpidem and for which the zolpidem incidence was at least twice the placebo incidence ( i . e . , they could be considered drug related ) .
Adverse Event Zolpidem Placebo Dizziness 3 % 0 % Drowsiness 5 % 2 % Diarrhea 3 % 1 % A total of 30 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 5 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem reported falls , including 28 / 30 ( 93 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 28 patients , 23 ( 82 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
A total of 24 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 2 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem reported confusion , including 18 / 24 ( 75 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 18 patients , 14 ( 78 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
The dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets in elderly patients is 5 mg to minimize adverse effects related to impaired motor and / or cognitive performance and unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
9 .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled substance Zolpidem tartrate is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by federal regulation .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Abuse is characterized by misuse of the drug for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug effects over time .
Tolerance may occur to both desired and undesired effects of drugs and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiological disease with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
Its characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , using a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Studies of abuse potential in former drug abusers found that the effects of single doses of zolpidem tartrate 40 mg were similar , but not identical , to diazepam 20 mg , while zolpidem tartrate 10 mg was difficult to distinguish from placebo .
Because persons with a history of addiction to , or abuse of , drugs or alcohol are at increased risk for misuse , abuse and addiction of zolpidem , they should be monitored carefully when receiving zolpidem or any other hypnotic .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , decreasing blood level of the drug , and / or administration of an antagonist .
Sedative / hypnotics have produced withdrawal signs and symptoms following abrupt discontinuation .
These reported symptoms range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a withdrawal syndrome that may include abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , tremors , and convulsions .
The following adverse events which are considered to meet the DSM - III - R criteria for uncomplicated sedative / hypnotic withdrawal were reported during U . S . clinical trials following placebo substitution occurring within 48 hours following last zolpidem treatment : fatigue , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , emesis , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness and abdominal discomfort .
These reported adverse events occurred at an incidence of 1 % or less .
However , available data cannot provide a reliable estimate of the incidence , if any , of dependence during treatment at recommended doses .
Post - marketing reports of abuse , dependence and withdrawal have been received .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and symptoms In postmarketing experience of overdose with zolpidem tartrate alone , or in combination with CNS - depressant agents , impairment of consciousness ranging from somnolence to coma , cardiovascular and / or respiratory compromise , and fatal outcomes have been reported .
10 . 2 Recommended treatment General symptomatic and supportive measures should be used along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
Zolpidem ’ s sedative hypnotic effect was shown to be reduced by flumazenil and therefore may be useful ; however , flumazenil administration may contribute to the appearance of neurological symptoms ( convulsions ) .
As in all cases of drug overdose , respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate signs should be monitored and general supportive measures employed .
Hypotension and CNS depression should be monitored and treated by appropriate medical intervention .
Sedating drugs should be withheld following zolpidem overdosage , even if excitation occurs .
The value of dialysis in the treatment of overdosage has not been determined , although hemodialysis studies in patients with renal failure receiving therapeutic doses have demonstrated that zolpidem is not dialyzable .
As with the management of all overdosage , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
The physician may wish to consider contacting a poison control center for up - to - date information on the management of hypnotic drug product overdosage .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Zolpidem tartrate is a non - benzodiazepine hypnotic of the imidazopyridine class and is available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration .
Chemically , zolpidem is N , N , 6 - trimethyl - 2 - p - tolylimidazo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyridine - 3 - acetamide L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zolpidem tartrate , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in water , alcohol , and propylene glycol .
It has a molecular weight of 764 . 88 .
Each zolpidem tartrate tablet , USP includes the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide and ferric oxide red ; the 10 mg tablet also contains ferric oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of action Zolpidem , the active moiety of zolpidem tartrate , is a hypnotic agent with a chemical structure unrelated to benzodiazepines , barbiturates , or other drugs with known hypnotic properties .
It interacts with a GABA - BZ receptor complex and shares some of the pharmacological properties of the benzodiazepines .
In contrast to the benzodiazepines , which non - selectively bind to and activate all BZ receptor subtypes , zolpidem in vitro binds the BZ1 receptor preferentially with a high affinity ratio of the α1 / α5 subunits .
This selective binding of zolpidem on the BZ1 receptor is not absolute , but it may explain the relative absence of myorelaxant and anticonvulsant effects in animal studies as well as the preservation of deep sleep ( stages 3 and 4 ) in human studies of zolpidem tartrate at hypnotic doses .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile of zolpidem tartrate tablets is characterized by rapid absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and a short elimination half - life ( T1 / 2 ) in healthy subjects .
In a single - dose crossover study in 45 healthy subjects administered 5 and 10 mg zolpidem tartrate tablets , the mean peak concentrations ( Cmax ) were 59 ( range : 29 to 113 ) and 121 ( range : 58 to 272 ) ng / mL , respectively , occurring at a mean time ( Tmax ) of 1 . 6 hours for both .
The mean zolpidem tartrate tablets elimination half - life was 2 . 6 ( range : 1 . 4 to 4 . 5 ) and 2 . 5 ( range : 1 . 4 to 3 . 8 ) hours , for the 5 and 10 mg tablets , respectively .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are converted to inactive metabolites that are eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets demonstrated linear kinetics in the dose range of 5 to 20 mg .
Total protein binding was found to be 92 . 5 ± 0 . 1 % and remained constant , independent of concentration between 40 and 790 ng / mL .
Zolpidem did not accumulate in young adults following nightly dosing with 20 mg zolpidem tartrate tablets for 2 weeks .
A food - effect study in 30 healthy male subjects compared the pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate tablets 10 mg when administered while fasting or 20 minutes after a meal .
Results demonstrated that with food , mean AUC and Cmax were decreased by 15 % and 25 % , respectively , while mean Tmax was prolonged by 60 % ( from 1 . 4 to 2 . 2 hr ) .
The half - life remained unchanged .
These results suggest that , for faster sleep onset , zolpidem tartrate tablets should not be administered with or immediately after a meal .
Special Populations Elderly : In the elderly , the dose for zolpidem tartrate tablets should be 5 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
This recommendation is based on several studies in which the mean Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC were significantly increased when compared to results in young adults .
In one study of eight elderly subjects ( > 70 years ) , the means for Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC significantly increased by 50 % ( 255 vs . 384 ng / mL ) , 32 % ( 2 . 2 vs . 2 . 9 hr ) , and 64 % ( 955 vs . 1 , 562 ng · hr / mL ) , respectively , as compared to younger adults ( 20 to 40 years ) following a single 20 mg oral dose .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets did not accumulate in elderly subjects following nightly oral dosing of 10 mg for 1 week .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate tablets in eight patients with chronic hepatic insufficiency were compared to results in healthy subjects .
Following a single 20 mg oral zolpidem tartrate dose , mean Cmax and AUC were found to be two times ( 250 vs . 499 ng / mL ) and five times ( 788 vs . 4 , 203 ng · hr / mL ) higher , respectively , in hepatically - compromised patients .
Tmax did not change .
The mean half - life in cirrhotic patients of 9 . 9 hr ( range : 4 . 1 to 25 . 8 hr ) was greater than that observed in normal subjects of 2 . 2 hr ( range : 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 hr ) .
Dosing should be modified accordingly in patients with hepatic insufficiency [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate were studied in 11 patients with end - stage renal failure ( mean ClCr = 6 . 5 ± 1 . 5 mL / min ) undergoing hemodialysis three times a week , who were dosed with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg orally each day for 14 or 21 days .
No statistically significant differences were observed for Cmax , Tmax , half - life , and AUC between the first and last day of drug administration when baseline concentration adjustments were made .
On day 1 , Cmax was 172 ± 29 ng / mL ( range : 46 to 344 ng / mL ) .
After repeated dosing for 14 or 21 days , Cmax was 203 ± 32 ng / mL ( range : 28 to 316 ng / mL ) .
On day 1 , Tmax was 1 . 7 ± 0 . 3 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 3 . 0 hr ) ; after repeated dosing Tmax was 0 . 8 ± 0 . 2 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 2 . 0 hr ) .
This variation is accounted for by noting that last - day serum sampling began 10 hours after the previous dose , rather than after 24 hours .
This resulted in residual drug concentration and a shorter period to reach maximal serum concentration .
On day 1 , T1 / 2 was 2 . 4 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 4 to 5 . 1 hr ) .
After repeated dosing , T1 / 2 was 2 . 5 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 7 to 4 . 2 hr ) .
AUC was 796 ± 159 ng · hr / mL after the first dose and 818 ± 170 ng · hr / mL after repeated dosing .
Zolpidem was not hemodialyzable .
No accumulation of unchanged drug appeared after 14 or 21 days .
Zolpidem pharmacokinetics were not significantly different in renally impaired patients .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with compromised renal function .
However , as a general precaution , these patients should be closely monitored .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Carcinogenesis : Zolpidem was administered to mice and rats for 2 years at dietary dosages of 4 , 18 , and 80 mg base / kg .
In mice , these doses are approximately 2 . 5 , 10 , and 50 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) on mg / m2 basis .
In rats , these doses are approximately 5 , 20 , and 100 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice .
In rats , renal tumors ( lipoma , liposarcoma ) were seen at the mid - and high doses .
Mutagenesis : Zolpidem was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , mouse lymphoma , and chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) genetic toxicology assays .
Impairment of fertility : Oral administration of zolpidem ( doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg or approximately 5 , 24 , and 120 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) to rats prior to and during mating , and continuing in females through postpartum day 25 , resulted in irregular estrus cycles and prolonged precoital intervals .
The no - effect dose for these findings is approximately 24 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
There was no impairment of fertility at any dose tested .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Transient insomnia Normal adults experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 462 ) during the first night in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , single - night trial comparing two doses of zolpidem ( 7 . 5 and 10 mg ) and placebo .
Both zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency , sleep duration , and number of awakenings .
Normal elderly adults ( mean age 68 ) experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 35 ) during the first two nights in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , crossover , 2 - night trial comparing four doses of zolpidem ( 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 mg ) and placebo .
All zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on the two primary PSG parameters ( sleep latency and efficiency ) and all four subjective outcome measures ( sleep duration , sleep latency , number of awakenings , and sleep quality ) .
14 . 2 Chronic insomnia Zolpidem was evaluated in two controlled studies for the treatment of patients with chronic insomnia ( most closely resembling primary insomnia , as defined in the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , DSM - IV ™ ) .
Adult outpatients with chronic insomnia ( n = 75 ) were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , 5 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem tartrate and placebo .
On objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency and sleep efficiency , zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on sleep latency for the first 4 weeks and on sleep efficiency for weeks 2 and 4 .
Zolpidem was comparable to placebo on number of awakenings at both doses studied .
Adult outpatients ( n = 141 ) with chronic insomnia were also evaluated , in a double - blind , parallel group , 4 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem and placebo .
Zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on a subjective measure of sleep latency for all 4 weeks , and on subjective measures of total sleep time , number of awakenings , and sleep quality for the first treatment week .
Increased wakefulness during the last third of the night as measured by polysomnography has not been observed in clinical trials with zolpidem tartrate tablets .
14 . 3 Studies pertinent to safety concerns for sedative / hypnotic drugs Next - day residual effects : Next - day residual effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets were evaluated in seven studies involving normal subjects .
In three studies in adults ( including one study in a phase advance model of transient insomnia ) and in one study in elderly subjects , a small but statistically significant decrease in performance was observed in the Digit Symbol Substitution Test ( DSST ) when compared to placebo .
Studies of zolpidem tartrate tablets in non - elderly patients with insomnia did not detect evidence of next - day residual effects using the DSST , the Multiple Sleep Latency Test ( MSLT ) , and patient ratings of alertness .
Rebound effects : There was no objective ( polysomnographic ) evidence of rebound insomnia at recommended doses seen in studies evaluating sleep on the nights following discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
There was subjective evidence of impaired sleep in the elderly on the first post - treatment night at doses above the recommended elderly dose of 5 mg .
Memory impairment : Controlled studies in adults utilizing objective measures of memory yielded no consistent evidence of next - day memory impairment following the administration of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
However , in one study involving zolpidem doses of 10 and 20 mg , there was a significant decrease in next - morning recall of information presented to subjects during peak drug effect ( 90 minutes post - dose ) , i . e . , these subjects experienced anterograde amnesia .
There was also subjective evidence from adverse event data for anterograde amnesia occurring in association with the administration of zolpidem tartrate tablets , predominantly at doses above 10 mg .
Effects on sleep stages : In studies that measured the percentage of sleep time spent in each sleep stage , zolpidem tartrate tablets have generally been shown to preserve sleep stages .
Sleep time spent in stages 3 and 4 ( deep sleep ) was found comparable to placebo with only inconsistent , minor changes in REM ( paradoxical ) sleep at the recommended dose .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Zolpidem tartrate 5 mg tablets , USP are red colored , capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and ‘ 5 MG ’ debossed on the other side and supplied as : NDC NumberSize 16590 - 528 - 15 bottle of 15 16590 - 528 - 20 bottle of 20 16590 - 528 - 25 bottle of 25 16590 - 528 - 30 bottle of 30 16590 - 528 - 40 bottle of 40 16590 - 528 - 56 bottle of 56 16590 - 528 - 60 bottle of 60 16590 - 528 - 90 bottle of 90 Zolpidem tartrate 10 mg tablets , USP are peach - yellow colored , capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and ‘ 10 MG ’ debossed on the other side and supplied as : NDC NumberSize 16590 - 527 - 15 bottle of 15 16590 - 527 - 20 bottle of 20 16590 - 527 - 28 bottle of 28 16590 - 527 - 30 bottle of 30 16590 - 527 - 45 bottle of 45 16590 - 527 - 60 bottle of 60 16590 - 527 - 90 bottle of 90 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Prescribers or other healthcare professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with sedative - hypnotics , should counsel them in its appropriate use , and should instruct them to read the accompanying Medication Guide [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 1 Severe anaphylactoid reactions Inform patients that severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred with zolpidem .
Describe the signs / symptoms of these reactions and advise patients to seek medical attention immediately if any of them occur .
17 . 2 Sleep - driving and other complex behaviors There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a sedative - hypnotic and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If a patient experiences such an episode , it should be reported to his or her doctor immediately , since " sleep - driving " can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when zolpidem tartrate tablets are taken with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with " sleep - driving " , patients usually do not remember these events .
In addition , patients should be advised to report all concomitant medications to the prescriber .
Patients should be instructed to report events such as " sleep - driving " and other complex behaviors immediately to the prescriber .
17 . 3 Administration instructions Patients should be counseled to take zolpidem tartrate tablets right before they get into bed and only when they are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 - 8 hours ) before being active again .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets should not be taken with or immediately after a meal .
Advise patients NOT to take zolpidem tartrate tablets when drinking alcohol .
17 . 4 Medication Guide Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets , USP C - IV Read the Medication Guide that comes with zolpidem tartrate tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
After taking zolpidem tartrate tablets , you may get up out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
The next morning , you may not remember that you did anything during the night .
You have a higher chance for doing these activities if you drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy with zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Reported activities include : • driving a car ( " sleep - driving " ) • making and eating food • talking on the phone • having sex • sleep - walking Call your doctor right away if you find out that you have done any of the above activities after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Important : 1 .
Take zolpidem tartrate tablets exactly as prescribed • Do not take more zolpidem tartrate tablets than prescribed .
• Take zolpidem tartrate tablets right before you get in bed , not sooner .
2 .
Do not take zolpidem tartrate tablets if you : • drink alcohol • take other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Talk to your doctor about all of your medicines .
Your doctor will tell you if you can take zolpidem tartrate tablets with your other medicines .
• cannot get a full night ’ s sleep What are zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are a sedative - hypnotic ( sleep ) medicine .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are used in adults for the short - term treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia .
Symptoms of insomnia include : • trouble falling asleep Zolpidem tartrate tablets are not for children .
Zolpidem tartrate is a federally controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep zolpidem tartrate tablets in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away zolpidem tartrate tablets may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you have ever abused or have been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Who should not take zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
Do not take zolpidem tartrate tablets if you are allergic to anything in it .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets may not be right for you .
Before starting zolpidem tartrate tablets , tell your doctor about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have a history of depression , mental illness , or suicidal thoughts • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • have kidney or liver disease • have a lung disease or breathing problems • are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Medicines can interact with each other , sometimes causing serious side effects .
Do not take zolpidem tartrate tablets with other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
• Take zolpidem tartrate tablets exactly as prescribed .
Do not take more zolpidem tartrate tablets than prescribed for you .
• Take zolpidem tartrate tablets right before you get into bed .
• Do not take zolpidem tartrate tablets unless you are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 - 8 hours ) before you must be active again .
• For faster sleep onset , zolpidem tartrate tablets should NOT be taken with or immediately after a meal .
• Call your doctor if your insomnia worsens or is not better within 7 to 10 days .
This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problem .
• If you take too much zolpidem tartrate tablets or overdose , call your doctor or poison control center right away , or get emergency treatment .
What are the possible side effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
Serious side effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets include : • getting out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
( See " What is the most important information I should know about zolpidem tartrate tablets ? )
• abnormal thoughts and behavior .
Symptoms include more outgoing or aggressive behavior than normal , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , worsening of depression , and suicidal thoughts or actions .
• memory loss • anxiety • severe allergic reactions .
Symptoms include swelling of the tongue or throat , trouble breathing , and nausea and vomiting .
Get emergency medical help if you get these symptoms after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the above side effects or any other side effects that worry you while using zolpidem tartrate tablets .
The most common side effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets are : • drowsiness • dizziness • diarrhea • " drugged feelings " • You may still feel drowsy the next day after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Do not drive or do other dangerous activities after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets until you feel fully awake .
After you stop taking a sleep medicine , you may have symptoms for 1 to 2 days such as : trouble sleeping , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , vomiting , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness , and stomach area pain .
These are not all the side effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 – 800 – FDA – 1088 .
How should I store zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
• Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Keep zolpidem tartrate tablets and all medicines out of reach of children .
General Information about zolpidem tartrate tablets • Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
• Do not use zolpidem tartrate tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
• Do not share zolpidem tartrate tablets with other people , even if you think they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about zolpidem tartrate tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about zolpidem tartrate tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about zolpidem tartrate tablets , call 1 - 269 - 544 - 2299 .
What are the ingredients in zolpidem tartrate tablets ?
Active Ingredient : Zolpidem tartrate , USP Inactive Ingredients : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide and ferric oxide red ; the 10 mg tablet also contains ferric oxide yellow .
Rx Only This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : TORRENT PHARMACEUTICALS LTD . , Indrad - 382 721 , Dist .
Mehsana , INDIA .
For : TORRENT PHARMA INC . , 5380 Holiday Terrace , Suite 40 , Kalamazoo , Michigan 49009 .
8026930 Revised January 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 PACKAGE LABEL - ZOLPIDEM C - IV 5 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - ZOLPIDEM C - IV 10 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
