WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING and SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING and SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are estrogen / progestin COCs , indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 . 1 ) ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is also indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age , who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Oral Contraceptive ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
1 . 2 Acne ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age , who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
( 2 . 2 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not skip or delay tablet intake .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Start ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are dispensed in either a DIALPAK Tablet dispenser or a VERIDATE Tablet Dispenser [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLENComplete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • ORTHO - CYCLEN active tablets are blue ( Day 1 to Day 21 ) .
• ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN active tablets are white ( Day 1 to Day 7 ) , light blue ( Day 8 to Day 14 ) and blue ( Day 15 to Day 21 ) .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN both have dark green inactive tablets ( Day 22 to Day 28 ) .
Day 1 Start : • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses .
• Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• Take one dark green inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last inactive tablet ) Sunday Start : • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ' s first cycle pack of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
• Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• Take one dark green inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet ) and additional non - hormonal contraceptive is not needed .
Switching to ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Start ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ' s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack .
• Implant • On the day of removal Starting ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is started immediately .
• If ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Second - trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start , as desired .
If using Sunday start , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ' s first cycle pack of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . ]
Starting ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are not recommended for use in lactating women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
DIALPAK ® Tablet Dispenser : [ MULTIMEDIA ] SET THE DAY : • □ Day 1 Start : turn the dial on the empty DIALPAK until the arrow points to the first day of the patient ' s period .
• □ Sunday Start : the arrow on the empty DIALPAK should point to SU ( Sunday ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Insert the new refill by lining up the " V " shape on the refill with the " V " shape at the top of the DIALPAK .
Snap the refill in place .
Pill " 1 " is ready to be taken .
Always begin the pill cycle with pill " 1 , " as shown on the inner part of the refill ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove pill " 1 " by pushing down on the pill .
The pill will come out through a hole in the back of the DIALPAK .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The patient should wait 24 hours to take the next pill .
To take pill " 2 , " turn the dial on the DIALPAK in a clockwise direction to the next day .
Continue to take one pill each day until all the pills have been taken .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Turn the dial to the pill " 1 " position to remove the empty refill and insert a new refill .
The first pill in every refill will always be taken on the same day of the week , no matter when the patient ' s next period starts .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] VERIDATE ® Tablet Dispenser • Place the refill in the VERIDATE Tablet Dispenser so that the V notch in the refill is at the top of the dispenser .
Press the refill down so that it fits firmly under all the nibs ( see illustration below ) .
• If the patient starts pill - taking on Sunday , the first active pill should be taken on the first Sunday after the patient ' s menstrual period begins .
Remove the first active pill at the top of the dispenser ( Sunday ) by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ORTHO - CYCLEN : • If the patient will start pill - taking on " Day 1 , " choose a blue pill that corresponds with the day of the week the patient will take the first pill .
Remove that blue pill by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : • If the patient will start pill - taking on a day other than Sunday , a calendar label has been provided and should be placed over the calendar in the center of the VERIDATE .
To place the label correctly , identify the correct starting day , locate that day printed in blue on the label , and line that day up with the first white pill directly under the V notch at the top of the dispenser .
Remove the label from the backing .
Press the center of the label down onto the center of the printed calendar .
Remove that white pill by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
• After all the dark green pills have been taken , insert a new refill into the VERIDATE .
The patient should take the first pill on the next day , even if the patient ' s period is not over yet .
To Insert New Refill ( ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ) : • Lift the empty refill out of the VERIDATE Tablet Dispenser .
• Insert the new refill so that the V notch in the refill is at the top of the dispenser .
Press the refill down so that it fits firmly under the nibs .
2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
• If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
2 . 5 ORTHO - TRICYCLEN Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN for acne should follow the guidelines for use of ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN as an oral contraceptive .
Consult the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ( 2 . 1 ) for instructions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ORTHO - CYCLEN consists of 28 round , biconvex , coated tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 21 blue tablets each containing 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green tablets ( inert ) ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN consists of 28 round , biconvex , coated tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 7 white tablets each containing 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 light blue tablets each containing 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 blue tablets each containing 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green tablets ( inert ) ORTHO - CYCLEN : ORTHO - CYCLEN Tablets are available in blister cards .
Each blister card contains 28 tablets in the following order : • 21 blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 250 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green round , biconvex , coated tablet ( non - hormonal placebo ) imprinted " O - M " on one side and " P " on the other side contains inert ingredients ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets are available in blister cards .
Each blister card contains 28 tablets in the following order : • 7 white , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 180 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 light blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 215 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 250 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green round , biconvex , coated tablet ( non - hormonal placebo ) imprinted " O - M " on one side and " P " on the other side contains inert ingredients 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • Stop ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• Stop ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• If feasible , stop ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during and following prolonged immobilization .
• Start ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
• Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In clinical trials of ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , the frequency and duration of breakthrough bleeding and / or spotting was assessed in 1 , 647 patients ( 21 , 275 evaluable cycles ) and 4 , 826 patients ( 35 , 546 evaluable cycles ) , respectively .
A total of 100 ( 7 . 5 % ) women discontinued ORTHO - CYCLEN and 231 ( 4 . 8 % ) women discontinued ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Based on data from the clinical trials , 14 – 34 % of women using ORTHO - CYCLEN experienced unscheduled bleeding per cycle in the first year ; for ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , the respective numbers were 13 – 38 % .
The percent of women who experienced breakthrough / unscheduled bleeding tended to decrease over time .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may experience amenorrhea .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN or ORTHO - CYCLEN .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions reported during clinical trials ( ≥ 2 % ) were : ORTHO - CYCLEN : headache / migraine , abdominal / gastrointestinal pain , vaginal infection , genital discharge , breast issues ( including breast pain , discharge , and enlargement ) , mood disorders ( including depression and mood altered ) , flatulence , nervousness , rash .
( 6 . 1 ) ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : headache / migraine , breast issues ( including breast pain , enlargement , and discharge ) , vaginal infection , abdominal / gastrointestinal pain , mood disorders ( including mood alteration and depression ) , genital discharge , changes in weight ( including weight increased or decreased ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Janssen Pharmaceutical , Inc . at 1 - 800 - JANSSEN ( 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
ORTHO - CYCLEN The safety of ORTHO - CYCLEN was evaluated in 1 , 647 healthy women of child - bearing potential who participated in 3 clinical trials and received at least 1 dose of ORTHO - CYCLEN for contraception .
Two trials were randomized active - controlled trials and 1 was an uncontrolled open - label trial .
In all 3 trials , subjects were followed for up to 24 cycles .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 1 , 647 women were the following in order of decreasing incidence : headache / migraine ( 32 . 9 % ) , abdominal / gastrointestinal pain ( 7 . 8 % ) , vaginal infection ( 8 . 4 % ) , genital discharge ( 6 . 8 % ) , breast issues ( including breast pain , discharge , and enlargement ) ( 6 . 3 % ) , mood disorders ( including depression and mood altered ) ( 5 . 0 % ) , flatulence ( 3 . 2 % ) , nervousness ( 2 . 9 % ) , and rash ( 2 . 6 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Over the three trials , between 11 to 21 % of subjects discontinued the trial due to an adverse reaction .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) leading to discontinuation were : metrorrhagia ( 6 . 9 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 5 . 0 % ) , headache ( 4 . 1 % ) , mood disorders ( including depression and mood altered ) ( 2 . 4 % ) , premenstrual syndrome ( 1 . 7 % ) , hypertension ( 1 . 4 % ) , breast pain ( 1 . 4 % ) , nervousness ( 1 . 3 % ) , amenorrhea ( 1 . 1 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 1 . 1 % ) , weight increased ( 1 . 1 % ) , and flatulence ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : breast cancer ( 1 subject ) , mood disorders including depression , irritability , and mood swings ( 1 subject ) , myocardial infarction ( 1 subject ) , and venous thromboembolic events including pulmonary embolism ( 1 subject ) and deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) ( 1 subject ) .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN The safety of ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN was evaluated in 4 , 826 healthy women of child - bearing potential who participated in 6 clinical trials and received at least 1 dose of ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN for contraception .
Two trials were randomized active - controlled trials and 4 were uncontrolled open - label trials .
In 3 trials , subjects were followed for up to 24 cycles ; in 2 trials , subjects were followed for up to 12 cycles ; and in 1 trial , subjects were followed for up to 6 cycles .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 4 , 826 women were the following in order of decreasing incidence : headache / migraine ( 33 . 6 % ) , breast issues ( including breast pain , enlargement , and discharge ) ( 8 . 0 % ) , vaginal infection ( 7 . 1 % ) , abdominal / gastrointestinal pain ( 5 . 6 % ) , mood disorders ( including mood alteration and depression ) ( 3 . 8 % ) , genital discharge ( 3 . 2 % ) , and changes in weight ( including weight fluctuation , increased or decreased ) ( 2 . 5 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Over the trials , between 9 to 27 % of subjects discontinued the trial due to an adverse reaction .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) leading to discontinuation were : metrorrhagia ( 4 . 3 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 2 . 8 % ) , headache / migraine ( 2 . 4 % ) , mood disorders ( including depression and mood altered ) ( 1 . 1 % ) , and weight increased ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : breast cancer ( 1 subject ) , carcinoma of the cervix in situ ( 1 subject ) , hypertension ( 1 subject ) , and migraine ( 2 subjects ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 – 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 – 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 – 10 years of COC use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with norgestimate / ethinyl estradiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and Infestations : Urinary tract infection ; Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified ( Incl .
Cysts and Polyps ) : Breast cancer , benign breast neoplasm , hepatic adenoma , focal nodular hyperplasia , breast cyst ; Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity ; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Dyslipidemia ; Psychiatric Disorders : Anxiety , insomnia ; Nervous System Disorders : Syncope , convulsion , paresthesia , dizziness ; Eye Disorders : Visual impairment , dry eye , contact lens intolerance ; Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Vertigo ; Cardiac Disorders : Tachycardia , palpitations ; Vascular Events : Deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , retinal vascular thrombosis , hot flush , venous thrombosis ( including Budd Chiari Syndrome and hepatic vein thrombosis ) ; Arterial Events : Arterial thromboembolism , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident ; Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnea ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : Pancreatitis , abdominal distension , diarrhea , constipation ; Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hepatitis ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioedema , erythema nodosum , hirsutism , night sweats , hyperhidrosis , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria , pruritus , acne ; Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue , and Bone Disorders : Muscle spasms , pain in extremity , myalgia , back pain ; Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Ovarian cyst , suppressed lactation , vulvovaginal dryness ; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Chest pain , asthenic conditions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ' s wort .
Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 – 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ] ) or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs • COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
• COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary . Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs .
7 . 3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
7 . 4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing mothers : Not recommended ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Do not administer COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of ORTHO - CYCLEN Tablets and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for post - pubertal adolescents under the age of 18 and for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
There was no significant difference between ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets and placebo in mean change in total lumbar spine ( L1 - L4 ) and total hip bone mineral density between baseline and Cycle 13 in 123 adolescent females with anorexia nervosa in a double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter , one - year treatment duration clinical trial for the Intent To Treat ( ITT ) population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN have not been studied in postmenopausal women and are not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN have not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN have not been studied in women with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdosage of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Each of the following products is a combination oral contraceptive containing the progestational compound norgestimate and the estrogenic compound ethinyl estradiol .
Norgestimate is designated as ( 18 , 19 - Dinor - 17 - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 13 - ethyl - , oxime , ( 17α ) - ( + ) - ) and ethinyl estradiol is designated as ( 19 - nor - 17α - pregna , 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol ) .
ORTHO - CYCLEN ® • Each active blue tablet contains 0 . 250 mg of norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
• Each dark green placebo tablet containing only inert ingredients , as follows : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , ferric oxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized corn starch , purified water , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ® • Each active white tablet contains 0 . 180 mg of norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
• Each active light blue tablet contains 0 . 215 mg of norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
• Each active blue tablet contains 0 . 250 mg of norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
• Each dark green placebo tablet contains only inert ingredients , as follows : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , ferric oxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized corn starch , purified water , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action • Oral Contraception COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
• Acne Acne is a skin condition with a multifactorial etiology , including androgen stimulation of sebum production .
While the combination of ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate increases sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) and decreases free testosterone , the relationship between these changes and a decrease in the severity of facial acne in otherwise healthy women with this skin condition has not been established .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norgestimate ( NGM ) and EE are rapidly absorbed following oral administration .
NGM is rapidly and completely metabolized by first pass ( intestinal and / or hepatic ) mechanisms to norelgestromin ( NGMN ) and norgestrel ( NG ) , which are the major active metabolites of norgestimate .
Peak serum concentrations of NGMN and EE are generally reached by 2 hours after administration of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Accumulation following multiple dosing of the 250 mcg NGM / 35 mcg EE dose is approximately 2 - fold for NGMN and EE compared with single dose administration .
The pharmacokinetics of NGMN is dose - proportional following NGM doses of 180 mcg to 250 mcg .
Steady - state concentration of EE is achieved by Day 7 of each dosing cycle .
Steady - state concentrations of NGMN and NG are achieved by Day 21 .
Non - linear accumulation ( approximately 8 fold ) of NG is observed as a result of high - affinity binding to SHBG , which limits its biological activity ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Summary of NGMN , NG and EE pharmacokinetic parameters . Cmax = peak serum concentration , tmax = time to reach peak serum concentration , AUC0 – 24 h = area under serum concentration vs time curve from 0 to 24 hours , t1 / 2 = elimination half - life , NC = not calculated .
NGMN and NG : Cmax = ng / mL , AUC0 – 24 h = h ∙ ng / mL EE : Cmax = pg / mL , AUC0 – 24 h = h ∙ pg / mL Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN During a Three Cycle Study Analyte Cycle Day Cmax tmax ( h ) AUC0 – 24 h t1 / 2 ( h ) NGMN 3 7 1 . 80 ( 0 . 46 ) 1 . 42 ( 0 . 73 ) 15 . 0 ( 3 . 88 ) NC 14 2 . 12 ( 0 . 56 ) 1 . 21 ( 0 . 26 ) 16 . 1 ( 4 . 97 ) NC 21 2 . 66 ( 0 . 47 ) 1 . 29 ( 0 . 26 ) 21 . 4 ( 3 . 46 ) 22 . 3 ( 6 . 54 ) NG 3 7 1 . 94 ( 0 . 82 ) 3 . 15 ( 4 . 05 ) 34 . 8 ( 16 . 5 ) NC 14 3 . 00 ( 1 . 04 ) 2 . 21 ( 2 . 03 ) 55 . 2 ( 23 . 5 ) NC 21 3 . 66 ( 1 . 15 ) 2 . 58 ( 2 . 97 ) 69 . 3 ( 23 . 8 ) 40 . 2 ( 15 . 4 ) EE 3 7 124 ( 39 . 5 ) 1 . 27 ( 0 . 26 ) 1130 ( 420 ) NC 14 128 ( 38 . 4 ) 1 . 32 ( 0 . 25 ) 1130 ( 324 ) NC 21 126 ( 34 . 7 ) 1 . 31 ( 0 . 56 ) 1090 ( 359 ) 15 . 9 ( 4 . 39 ) Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of ORTHO - CYCLEN During a Three Cycle Study Analyte Cycle Day Cmax tmax ( h ) AUC0 – 24 h t1 / 2 ( h ) NGMN 1 1 1 . 78 ( 0 . 397 ) 1 . 19 ( 0 . 250 ) 9 . 90 ( 3 . 25 ) 18 . 4 ( 5 . 91 ) 3 21 2 . 19 ( 0 . 655 ) 1 . 43 ( 0 . 680 ) 18 . 1 ( 5 . 53 ) 24 . 9 ( 9 . 04 ) NG 1 1 0 . 649 ( 0 . 49 ) 1 . 42 ( 0 . 69 ) 6 . 22 ( 2 . 46 ) 37 . 8 ( 14 . 0 ) 3 21 2 . 65 ( 1 . 11 ) 1 . 67 ( 1 . 32 ) 48 . 2 ( 20 . 5 ) 45 . 0 ( 20 . 4 ) EE 1 1 92 . 2 ( 24 . 5 ) 1 . 2 ( 0 . 26 ) 629 ( 138 ) 10 . 1 ( 1 . 90 ) 3 21 147 ( 41 . 5 ) 1 . 13 ( 0 . 23 ) 1210 ( 294 ) 15 . 0 ( 2 . 36 ) Food Effect The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN has not been studied .
Distribution NGMN and NG are highly bound ( > 97 % ) to serum proteins .
NGMN is bound to albumin and not to SHBG , while NG is bound primarily to SHBG .
EE is extensively bound ( > 97 % ) to serum albumin and induces an increase in the serum concentrations of SHBG .
Metabolism NGM is extensively metabolized by first - pass mechanisms in the gastrointestinal tract and / or liver .
NGM ' s primary active metabolite is NGMN .
Subsequent hepatic metabolism of NGMN occurs and metabolites include NG , which is also active , and various hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites .
Although NGMN and its metabolites inhibit a variety of P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes , under the recommended dosing regimen , the in vivo concentrations of NGMN and its metabolites , even at the peak serum levels , are relatively low compared to the inhibitory constant ( Ki ) .
EE is also metabolized to various hydroxylated products and their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates .
Excretion The metabolites of NGMN and EE are eliminated by renal and fecal pathways .
Following administration of 14 C - norgestimate , 47 % ( 45 – 49 % ) and 37 % ( 16 – 49 % ) of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in the urine and feces , respectively .
Unchanged NGM was not detected in the urine .
In addition to 17 - deacetyl norgestimate , a number of metabolites of NGM have been identified in human urine following administration of radiolabeled NGM .
These include 18 , 19 - Dinor - 17 - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 17 - hydroxy - 13 - ethyl , ( 17α ) - ( - ) ; 18 , 19 - Dinor - 5β - 17 - pregnan - 20 - yn , 3α , 17β - dihydroxy - 13 - ethyl , ( 17α ) , various hydroxylated metabolites and conjugates of these metabolites .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Contraception In three US clinical trials with ORTHO - CYCLEN , 1 , 651 women aged 18 to 38 years were studied for up to 24 cycles , proving a total of 24 , 272 cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic was about 73 – 86 % Caucasian , 8 – 13 % African - American , 6 – 14 % Hispanic with the remainder Asian or Other ( ≤ 1 % ) .
There were no exclusions on the basis of weight ; the weight range for women treated was 82 – 303 lbs , with a mean weight of about 135 lbs .
The pregnancy rate was approximately 1 pregnancy per 100 women - years .
In four clinical trials with ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , 4 , 756 women aged 15 to 41 years were studied for 24 cycles , providing a total of 45 , 244 cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic was about 87 – 90 % Caucasian , 6 – 10 % African - American , with the remainder Asian ( ≤ 1 % ) or Other ( 2 – 5 % ) .
There were no exclusions on the basis of weight ; the weight range for women treated was 80 – 310 lbs , with a mean weight of about 132 lbs .
The pregnancy rate was approximately 1 pregnancy per 100 women - years .
14 . 2 Acne ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN was evaluated for the treatment of acne vulgaris in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter , six - ( 28 day ) cycle studies .
Two hundred twenty - one patients received ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and 234 patients received placebo .
Mean age at enrollment for both groups was 28 years .
At the end of 6 months , the mean total lesion count changed from 55 to 31 ( 42 % reduction ) in patients treated with ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and from 54 to 38 ( 27 % reduction ) in patients similarly treated with placebo .
Table 4 summarizes the changes in lesion count for each type of lesion .
Based on the investigator ' s global assessment conducted at the final visit , patients treated with ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN showed a statistically significant improvement in total lesions compared to those treated with placebo .
Table 4 : Acne Vulgaris Indication .
Combined Results : Two Multicenter , Placebo - Controlled Trials .
Observed Means at Six Months ( LOCF ) [ 1 ] and at Baseline .
Intent - to - Treat Population .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ( N = 221 ) Placebo ( N = 234 ) Difference in Counts between ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and Placebo at 6 Months # of Lesions Counts % Reduction Counts % Reduction INFLAMMATORY LESIONS Baseline Mean 19 19 Sixth Month Mean 10 48 % 13 30 % 3 ( 95 % CI : - 1 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) NON - INFLAMMATORY LESIONS Baseline Mean 36 35 Sixth Month Mean 22 34 % 25 21 % 3 ( 95 % CI : - 0 . 2 , 7 . 8 ) TOTAL LESIONS Baseline Mean 55 54 7 ( 95 % CI : 2 . 0 , 11 . 9 ) Sixth Month Mean 31 42 % 38 27 % [ 1 ] LOCF : Last Observation Carried Forward 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ORTHO - CYCLEN ORTHO - CYCLEN ® Tablets are available in a single pouch containing a VERIDATE blister card ( refill ) of 28 tablets ( NDC 50458 - 197 - 28 ) .
ORTHO - CYCLEN Tablets are packaged in a carton containing 6 pouches and 6 unfilled VERIDATE Tablet Dispensers ( NDC 50458 - 197 - 06 ) .
Each blister card ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 21 blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 250 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green round , biconvex , coated tablet ( non - hormonal placebo ) imprinted " O - M " on one side and " P " on the other side contains inert ingredients ORTHO - CYCLEN Tablets are also available for clinic usage in a VERIDATE Tablet Dispenser ( unfilled ) and VERIDATE refills ( NDC 50458 - 197 - 20 and NDC 50458 - 197 - 12 ) .
ORTHO - CYCLEN Tablets are available in a DIALPAK Tablet Dispenser ( unfilled ) and DIALPAK refills ( NDC 50458 - 197 - 00 and NDC 50458 - 197 - 15 ) .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ® Tablets are available in a single pouch containing a VERIDATE blister card ( refill ) of 28 tablets ( NDC 50458 - 191 - 28 . )
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets are packaged in a carton containing 6 pouches and 6 unfilled VERIDATE Tablet dispensers ( NDC 50458 - 191 - 06 ) .
Each blister card ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 7 white , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 180 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 light blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 215 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 blue , round , biconvex , coated tablet imprinted " O 250 " on one side and " 35 " on the other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol • 7 dark green round , biconvex , coated tablet ( non - hormonal placebo ) imprinted " O - M " on one side and " P " on the other side contains inert ingredients ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets are also available for clinic usage in a VERIDATE Tablet Dispenser ( unfilled ) and VERIDATE refills ( NDC 50458 - 191 - 20 and NDC 50458 - 191 - 12 ) .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Tablets are available in a DIALPAK Tablet Dispenser ( unfilled ) and DIALPAK refills ( NDC 50458 - 191 - 00 and NDC 50458 - 191 - 15 ) .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions • Store at 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
• Protect from light .
• Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN and ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN are not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event tablets are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken an active tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Mfd .
by : Janssen Ortho LLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Mfd .
for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 © 1998 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies Patient Information ORTHO - CYCLEN [ OR - tho sī - klin ] ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN [ OR - tho trī - sī - klin ] ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol ) Tablets What is the most important information I should know about ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
Do not use ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN is also used to treat moderate acne vulgaris in females 15 years of age and older , who have no known history of allergies or problems taking birth control pills , and have started their menstrual cycle ( " period " ) .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN should only be used to treat acne in women who want to take birth control pills to prevent pregnancy .
How does ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of clinical studies , about 1 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
Do not take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • have liver problems , including liver tumors • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme " alanine aminotransferase " ( ALT ) in the blood .
• have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones If any of these conditions happen while you are taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , stop taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
• Like pregnancy , ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • leg pain that will not go away • sudden severe shortness of breath • sudden change in vision or blindness • chest pain • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • irregular or unusual vaginal bleeding and spotting between your menstrual periods , especially during the first 3 months of taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
• depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
• headache ( migraine ) • breast pain or tenderness , enlargement or discharge • stomach pain , discomfort , and gas • vaginal infections and discharge • mood changes , including depression • nervousness • changes in weight • skin rash These are not all the possible side effects of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Certain blood tests may be affected by ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
• Store ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Store away from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - JANSSEN ( 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 ) .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
ORTHO - CYCLEN : Active ingredients : Each blue pill contains norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : Blue pills : carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
Dark - green pills : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , ferric oxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized corn starch , purified water , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : Active ingredients : Each white , light - blue , and blue pill contains norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : White pills : carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
Light - blue pills : carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
Blue pills : carnauba wax , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
Dark - green pills : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , ferric oxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized corn starch , purified water , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions For Use ORTHO - CYCLEN [ OR - tho sī - klin ] ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN [ OR - tho trī - sī - klin ] ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol ) Tablets Important Information about taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill dispenser .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , talk to your healthcare provider .
When you first start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see What should I do if I miss any ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN pills ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 – 4 hours of taking your pill , take another pill of the same color from your extra pill dispenser .
If you do not have an extra pill dispenser , take the next pill in your pill dispenser .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next pill dispenser the day after finishing your current pill dispenser .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms and a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms and spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your pill dispenser .
• Have backup contraception ( condoms and spermicide ) available and if possible , an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ?
If you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and you are switching from another birth control pill : • Start your new ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • Start using ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • Start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • Start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , " When should I start taking ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN ? "
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
• If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill " 1 " that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order on the pill dispenser at the same time each day for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order of the pill dispenser dial pack , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN comes in either a DIALPAK pill dispenser or a VERIDATE pill dispenser .
Read the instructions below for using your DIALPAK pill dispenser or your VERIDATE pill dispenser .
Instructions for using your DIALPAK pill dispenser : ORTHO - CYCLEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Each DIALPAK pill dispenser has 28 pills .
• ORTHO - CYCLEN • 21 blue pills with hormones , for Days 1 to 21 .
• 7 dark green pills ( without hormones ) , for Days 22 to 28 .
ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN • 7 white pills with hormone , for Days 1 to 7 • 7 light - blue pills with hormone , for Days 8 to 14 • 7 blue pills with hormones , for Days 15 to 21 • 7 dark green pills ( without hormones ) , for Days 22 to 28 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Step 1 .
SET THE DAY on your DIALPAK Sunday Start : The arrow on your empty DIALPAK should point to SU ( Sunday ) .
Day 1 Start : Turn the dial on your empty DIALPAK in a clockwise direction until the arrow points to the first day of your period ( if your period starts on Tuesday , the arrow will point to TU ) .
See Figure A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 2 .
Insert the new refill by lining up the " V " shape on the refill with the " V " shape at the top of your DIALPAK .
Press the refill down so that it fits firmly .
See Figure B . Snap the refill in place .
You are ready to take pill " 1 " .
You should always begin your pill cycle with pill " 1 " , as shown on the inner part of the refill ring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 3 .
Remove pill " 1 " by pushing down on the pill .
The pill will come out through a hole in the back of the DIALPAK .
See Figure C . Step 4 .
Swallow the pill .
You will take 1 pill every day , at the same time each day .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 5 .
Wait 24 hours to take your next pill .
To take pill " 2 , " turn the dial on your DIALPAK in a clockwise direction to the next day .
See Figure D . Continue to take 1 pill each day until all the pills have been taken .
Step 6 .
Take your pill at the same time every day .
It is important to take the correct pill each day and not miss any pills . To help you remember , take your pill at the same time as another daily activity , like turning off your alarm clock or brushing your teeth .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 7 .
Remove your empty pack .
See Figure E .
You will start a new refill on the first day after pill " 28 " .
Turn the dial to the pill " 1 " position to remove the empty refill pack .
When your refill is empty , keep your DIALPAK case .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 8 .
Insert a new refill pack .
See Figure F . Insert a new refill pack .
Remember to take your first pill in every refill on the same day of the week , no matter when your next period starts .
Instructions for using your VERIDATE pill dispenser : • Each VERIDATE pill dispenser has 28 pills .
See Figure A . • ORTHO - CYCLEN • 21 blue pills with hormones , for Days 1 to 21 • 7 dark green pills ( without hormones ) , for Days 22 to 28 • ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN • 7 white pills with hormone , for Days 1 to 7 • 7 light - blue pills with hormone , for Days 8 to 14 • 7 blue pills with hormones , for Days 15 to 21 • 7 dark green pills ( without hormones ) , for Days 22 to 28 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 1 .
Place the refill in the VERIDATE Pill Dispenser so that the " V " notch in the refill is at the top of the dispenser .
Press the refill down so that it fits firmly under all the nibs .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 2 .
Starting your pills .
Sunday Start : Remove the first pill at the top of the dispenser ( Sunday ) by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
See Figure C . • If your healthcare provider tells you to start taking your pill on Sunday , take your first pill on the first Sunday after your period begins .
• If your period begins on Sunday , take your first pill that day .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Day 1 Start : If you take ORTHO - CYCLEN : • If your healthcare provider tells you to start taking your pill on " Day 1 , " choose a blue pill that corresponds with the day of the week on which you are taking the first pill .
• Remove that blue pill by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F If you take ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN : • If your healthcare provider tells you to start taking your pill on a day other than Sunday , you will need the calendar label found in your pill package and place it over the calendar in the center of the VERIDATE .
See Figure E . • To correctly place the calendar label on the VERIDATE : • find your correct starting day • find that day printed in blue on the label • line your blue starting day up with the first white pill which is directly under the V notch at the top of the dispenser .
• Remove the label from the backing .
Press the center of the label down onto the center of the printed calendar .
• Remove that white pill by pressing the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
See Figure F . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Step 3 .
Continue taking 1 pill every day from the VERIDATE in a clockwise direction until no pills remain in the outer ring .
See Figure G . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H Step 4 .
The next day take a dark green pill from the inner ring .
See Figure H . • Continue to take a dark green pill each day until all 7 pills are taken .
• During this time your period should begin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I Step 5 .
Insert a new refill : • After you have taken all the dark green pills , insert a new refill into the VERIDATE and take the first pill on the next day , even if your period is not yet over .
• Lift the empty refill out of the VERIDATE Pill Dispenser .
See Figure I . • Follow the instructions in Step 1 to replace the new refill .
What should I do if I miss any ORTHO - CYCLEN or ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN pills ?
If you miss 1 pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pills in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pills in a row in Week 3 , or you miss 3 or more pills in a row during Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 of the pack , follow these steps : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
• If you are a Sunday Starter : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mfd .
by : Janssen Ortho LLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Mfd .
for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 © 1998 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 04 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - ORTHO TRI - CYCLEN Kit Carton 28 day NDC 50458 - 191 - 15 ORTHO TRI ~ CYCLEN ® ( norgestimate / ethinyl estradiol ) Each white tablet contains 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Each light blue tablet contains 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Each blue tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Each green tablet contains inert ingredients .
Rx only .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Protect from light .
Contains : 6 Dialpak ® Tablet Dispensers and 6 Refills janssen Mfd .
by : Janssen Ortho , LLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Mfd .
for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 © Janssen 1998 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - ORTHO - CYCLEN Kit Carton 28 day NDC 50458 - 197 - 15 ORTHO ~ CYCLEN ® ( norgestimate / ethinyl estradiol ) Each blue tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Each green tablet contains inert ingredients .
Rx only .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Protect from light .
janssen Contains : 6 Dialpak ® Tablet Dispensers and 6 Refills Mfd .
by : Janssen Ortho , LLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Mfd .
for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 © Janssen 1998 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
