Active ingredient Terbinafine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • • cures most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) between the toes .
Effectiveness on the bottom or sides of foot is unknown .
• • cures most jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • • relieves itching , burning , cracking , and scaling which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do Not Use • • on nails or scalp • • in or near the mouth or the eyes • • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product • • do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• • do not puncture or incinerate ; contents under pressure .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) .
Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or gets worse Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • wash the affected area with soap and water and dry completely before applying • • to open remove clear cap • • hold can 4 " to 6 " from skin .
Press and hold to spray a thin layer over affected area • • spray affected area once a day ( morning or night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • • release to stop spray • • wipe excess from spray opening after each use • • return cap to can • • for athlete ’ s foot between the toes spray twice a day ( morning and night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor .
Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • for jock itch and ringworm spray affected area once a day ( morning or night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • • wash hands after each use • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients ethanol , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , propylene glycol , purified water Questions ?
call 1 - 800 - 330 - 9876 Principal Display Panel NDC 0067 - 6296 - 01 TERBINAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE SOLUTION 1 % - ANTIFUNGAL LAMISILAT ® SPRAY Clinically proven to cure most athlete ’ s foot between the toes Full prescription strength Relieves itching , burning , cracking and scaling Net Contents 125 ml ( 4 . 2 fl oz ) The only 1 week ( twice a day ) athlete ’ s foot spray Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
1 - 800 - 330 - 9876 Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 © 2017 GSK or its licensor .
13059 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
