Rx Only DESCRIPTION Ergocalciferol Capsules , USP is a synthetic calcium regulator for oral administration .
Ergocalciferol is a white , colorless crystal , insoluble in water , soluble in organic solvents , and slightly soluble in vegetable oils .
It is affected by air and by light .
Ergosterol or provitamin D2 is found in plants and yeast and has no antirachitic activity .
There are more than 10 substances belonging to a group of steroid compounds , classified as having vitamin D or antirachitic activity .
One USP Unit of vitamin D2 is equivalent to one International Unit ( IU ) , and 1 mcg of vitamin D2 is equal to 40 IU .
Each softgel capsule , for oral administration , contains Ergocalciferol , USP 1 . 25 mg ( equivalent to 50 , 000 USP units of Vitamin D ) , in an edible vegetable oil .
Ergocalciferol , also called vitamin D2 , is 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraen - 3 - ol , ( 3β , 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E ) - ; ( C28H44O ) with a molecular weight of 396 . 65 , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Structure Inactive Ingredients : D and C Yellow # 10 , FD and C Blue # 1 , Gelatin , Glycerin , Purified Water , Refined Soybean Oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in vivo synthesis of the major biologically active metabolites of vitamin D occurs in two steps .
The first hydroxylation of ergocalciferol takes place in the liver ( to 25 - hydroxyvitamin D ) and the second in the kidneys ( to 1 , 25 - dihydroxy - vitamin D ) .
Vitamin D metabolites promote the active absorption of calcium and phosphorus by the small intestine , thus elevating serum calcium and phosphate levels sufficiently to permit bone mineralization .
Vitamin D metabolites also mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone and probably increase the reabsorption of calcium and perhaps also of phosphate by the renal tubules .
There is a time lag of 10 to 24 hours between the administration of vitamin D and the initiation of its action in the body due to the necessity of synthesis of the active metabolites in the liver and kidneys .
Parathyroid hormone is responsible for the regulation of this metabolism in the kidneys .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ergocalciferol Capsules , USP are indicated for use in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism , refractory rickets , also known as vitamin D resistant rickets , and familial hypophosphatemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ergocalciferol Capsules , USP are contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia , malabsorption syndrome , abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D , and hypervitaminosis D . WARNINGS Hypersensitivity to vitamin D may be one etiologic factor in infants with idiopathic hypercalcemia .
In these cases vitamin D must be strictly restricted .
Keep out of the reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system : Renal : Impairment of renal function with polyuria , nocturia , polydipsia , hypercalciuria , reversible azotemia , hypertension , nephrocalcinosis , generalized vascular calcification , or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death .
CNS : Mental retardation .
Soft Tissues : Widespread calcification of the soft tissues , including the heart , blood vessels , renal tubules , and lungs .
Skeletal : Bone demineralization ( osteoporosis ) in adults occurs concomitantly .
Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children ( dwarfism ) , vague aches , stiffness , and weakness .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , anorexia , constipation .
Metabolic : Mild acidosis , anemia , weight loss .
OVERDOSAGE The effects of administered vitamin D can persist for two or more months after cessation of treatment .
Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by : • Hypercalcemia with anorexia , nausea , weakness , weight loss , vague aches and stiffness , constipation , mental retardation , anemia , and mild acidosis .
• Impairment of renal function with polyuria , nocturia , polydipsia , hypercalciuria , reversible azotemia , hypertension , nephrocalcinosis , generalized vascular calcification , or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death .
• Widespread calcification of the soft tissues , including the heart , blood vessels , renal tubules , and lungs .
Bone demineralization ( osteoporosis ) in adults occurs concomitantly .
• Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children ( dwarfism ) .
The treatment of hypervitaminosis D with hypercalcemia consists of immediate withdrawal of the vitamin , a low calcium diet , generous intake of fluids , along with symptomatic and supportive treatment .
Hypercalcemic crisis with dehydration , stupor , coma , and azotemia requires more vigorous treatment .
The first step should be hydration of the patient .
Intravenous saline may quickly and significantly increase urinary calcium excretion .
A loop diuretic ( furosemide or ethacrynic acid ) may be given with the saline infusion to further increase renal calcium excretion .
Other reported therapeutic measures include dialysis or the administration of citrates , sulfates , phosphates , corticosteroids , EDTA ( ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid ) , and mithramycin via appropriate regimens .
With appropriate therapy , recovery is the usual outcome when no permanent damage has occurred .
Deaths via renal or cardiovascular failure have been reported .
The LD50 in animals is unknown .
The toxic oral dose of ergocalciferol in the dog is 4 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE RANGE BETWEEN THERAPEUTIC AND TOXIC DOSES IS NARROW .
Vitamin D Resistant Rickets : 12 , 000 to 500 , 000 USP units daily .
Hypoparathyroidism : 50 , 000 to 200 , 000 USP units daily concomitantly with calcium lactate 4 g , six times per day .
DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED UNDER CLOSE MEDICAL SUPERVISION .
Calcium intake should be adequate .
Blood calcium and phosphorus determinations must be made every 2 weeks or more frequently if necessary .
X - rays of the bones should be taken every month until condition is corrected and stabilized .
HOW SUPPLIED Each green , oval softgel capsule is imprinted with A3 and contains 1 . 25 mg ( 50 , 000 USP units vitamin D ) of ergocalciferol , USP .
Bottles of 100 Softgel Capsules ( NDC 51991 - 604 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by : Swiss Caps AG Kirchberg , Switzerland Distributed by : Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Boca Raton , FL 33487 Rev . 04 / 09 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66336 - 0907 - XX NDC 66336 - 0907 - 06 NDC 66336 - 0907 - 44 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
