WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ] .
DESCRIPTION Cryselle ® is a combination oral contraceptive containing the progestational compound norgestrel , USP and the estrogenic compound ethinyl estradiol , USP .
Norgestrel is designated as ( 2 ) ( ± ) - 13 - Ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - 18 , 19 - dinor - 17α - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one and ethinyl estradiol is designated as ( 19 - nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol ) .
Each white active Cryselle tablet contains 0 . 3 mg norgestrel , USP and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , USP .
The inactive ingredients present are hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol and pregelatinized corn starch .
The light - green inactive tablets also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
Norgestrel , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 45 Ethinyl Estradiol , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 40 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) prevent pregnancy primarily by suppressing ovulation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cryselle is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
In a study of 1 , 287 women with a total of 11 , 085 cycles or 852 . 7 women - years of usage , the pregnancy rate in women age 15 to 40 years was approximately 1 pregnancy per 100 women - years of use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cryselle is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 • Have deep - vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past • Have inherited or acquired coagulopathies • Have cerebrovascular disease • Have coronary artery disease • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease or atrial fibrillation ) • Have uncontrolled hypertension • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease • Headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy • Current diagnosis or history of breast cancer , which may be hormone sensitive • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of Cryselle Women who are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations ( see Warnings , Risk of liver enzyme elevations with concomitant hepatitis c treatment ) .
WARNINGS 1 .
Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • Stop Cryselle if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• Stop Cryselle if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• If feasible , stop Cryselle at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during and following prolonged immobilization .
• Start Cryselle no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
• Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
2 .
Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Cryselle in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Cryselle if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Cryselle is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However the risk of liver cancers in COC users approaches less than one case per million users .
Risk Of Liver Enzyme Elevations With Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications such as COCs .
Discontinue Cryselle prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ] .
Cryselle can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen .
3 .
High Blood Pressure Cryselle is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Cryselle if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing quantities of progestin .
4 .
Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 .
Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who take Cryselle .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
6 .
Headache If a woman taking Cryselle develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Cryselle if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Cryselle in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
7 .
Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In 1 , 287 patients ( pooled data from a number of studies ) , unscheduled bleeding was recorded in 15 % of first cycles and by Cycle 12 was 5 % .
In total , 23 % of subjects reported spotting , 20 % reported unscheduled bleeding , and 2 % reported change in menstrual flow at some point in the studies .
In the studies , 1 . 2 % discontinued use of the product due to breakthrough bleeding and 1 % discontinued due to spotting .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use Cryselle may experience amenorrhea .
A total of 9 % of subjects in the studies reported amenorrhea in one or more cycles .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
8 .
Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Cryselle if depression recurs to a serious degree .
9 .
Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Cryselle is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and also among current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
PRECAUTIONS 1 .
Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
2 .
Hereditary Angioedema In females with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
3 .
Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Cryselle .
4 .
Drug Interactions Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation : Do not coadminister Cryselle with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations ( see Warnings , Risk of liver enzyme elevations with concomitant hepatitis c treatment ) .
Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
Concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are coadministered with some HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] , or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other drugs ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in the plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs .
5 .
Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
6 .
Carcinogenesis See WARNINGS Sections 2 and 9 .
7 .
Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Discontinue Cryselle use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Do not administer COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 .
Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
9 .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Cryselle tablets have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for post - pubertal adolescents under the age of 16 and for users 16 years and older .
Use of Cryselle before menarche is not indicated .
10 .
Geriatric Use Cryselle has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
11 .
Information for the Patient See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC .
• Cryselle does not protect against HIV infection and other sexually transmitted infections .
• Cryselle is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Cryselle , instruct the patient to stop further use .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event tablets are missed .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Cryselle .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken an active tablet for 7 consecutive days .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles .
ADVERSE REACTIONS An increased risk of the following serious adverse reactions ( see Warnings section for additional information ) has been associated with the use of oral contraceptives : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning ] • Vascular events • Liver disease Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of Cryselle was evaluated in 1 , 343 healthy women of child - bearing potential who participated in 9 clinical trials and received at least one dose of Cryselle for contraception .
Subjects were exposed for a total of 11 , 085 cycles , with 429 women completing one year of exposure .
Subjects ranged in age from 15 to 40 years .
Demographics were 69 % Caucasian , 28 % Black , and 3 % other .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) : • Weight increase ( 11 % ) • Cervical erosion ( 9 % ) • Weight decrease ( 6 % ) • Acne ( 4 % ) • Dysmenorrhea ( 4 % ) • Vaginal discharge ( 4 % ) • Abdominal pain , cramps , and bloating ( 3 % ) • Appetite increase ( 3 % ) • Depression ( 3 % ) • Nervousness ( 3 % ) • Chloasma / melasma ( 2 % ) • Fatigue ( 2 % ) • Varicose veins , aggravation of ( 2 % ) A total of 8 % of subjects discontinued the trials prematurely due to an adverse reaction , most commonly due to unscheduled bleeding , spotting , headache ( including migraine ) , nausea , acne , changes in menstrual flow , weight increase , nervousness , high blood pressure , and depression .
Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 1 : Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with Cryselle .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Arterial Events : Arterial thromboembolism , Myocardial infarction , Cerebral hemorrhage Eye Disorder : Optic neuritis , which may lead to partial or complete loss of vision , Intolerance to contact lenses , Change ( steepening ) in corneal curvature Gastrointestinal Disorders : Colitis , Nausea , Pancreatitis Hepatobiliary Disorders : Gallbladder disease , Cholestatic jaundice , Budd - Chiari syndrome Immune System Disorders : Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and severe reactions with respiratory and circulatory symptoms Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Carbohydrate and lipid effects , Porphyria , exacerbation of Porphyria Neoplasms , Benign , Malignant , and Unspecified : Carcinoma of the reproductive organs and breasts , Hepatic neoplasia ( including hepatic adenomas or benign liver tumors ) Psychiatric Disorders : Mood changes Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Temporary infertility after discontinuation of treatment , Changes in libido , Vaginitis , including candidiasis ; Breast secretion Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Melasma / chloasma , which may persist ; Erythema multiforme , Erythema nodosum , Hemorrhagic eruption , Hirsutism Vascular Events : Venous thrombosis , Pulmonary embolism , Cerebral thrombosis , Mesenteric thrombosis , Retinal vascular thrombosis OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdosage of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Cryselle ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
The dosage of Cryselle is one white tablet daily for 21 consecutive days , followed by one light - green colored inert tablet daily for 7 consecutive days , according to prescribed schedule .
It is recommended that Cryselle tablets be taken by mouth at the same time each day .
How to Start Cryselle Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication .
Instruct the patient to begin taking Cryselle on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , the first tablet ( white ) is taken that day .
The patient should take one white tablet daily for 21 consecutive days followed by one light - green colored inert tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
Withdrawal bleeding will usually occur within 3 days following discontinuation of white tablets and may not have finished before the next pack is started .
During the first cycle , the patient should not rely on Cryselle for contraception until a white tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days and she should use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control during those 7 days .
After the first cycle of use The patient is to begin her next and all subsequent 28 - day courses of tablets on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which she began her first course , following the same schedule : 21 days of white tablets , followed by 7 days of light - green colored inert tablets .
If in any cycle the patient starts tablets later than the proper day , instruct her to protect herself against pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control until she has taken a white tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
Switching from another hormonal method of contraception • When the patient is switching from a 21 - day regimen of tablets , instruct her to wait 7 days after her last tablet before she starts Cryselle .
She will probably experience withdrawal bleeding during that week .
Instruct her not to let more than 7 days pass after her previous 21 - day regimen before she starts Cryselle .
• When the patient is switching from a 28 - day regimen of tablets , instruct her to start her first pack of Cryselle on the day after her last tablet .
She should not wait any days between packs .
• The patient may switch any day from a progestin - only pill and should begin Cryselle the next day .
If switching from an implant or injection , instruct the patient to start Cryselle on the day of implant removal or the day the next injection would be due .
If switching from a contraceptive vaginal ring or transdermal patch instruct the patient to start Cryselle on the day they would have inserted the next ring or applied the next patch .
If switching from an Intrauterine Device ( IUD ) or Intrauterine System ( IUS ) , instruct the patient to start Cryselle on the day of IUD / IUS removal .
If the IUD / IUS is not removed on the first day of the patient ’ s menstrual cycle , instruct her to use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control for the first 7 days of tablet - taking .
Use after pregnancy , abortion , or miscarriage • Initiate Cryselle no earlier than day 28 postpartum in the nonlactating mother or after a second - trimester abortion due to the increased risk for thromboembolism ( see Contraindications , Warnings and Precautions concerning thromboembolic disease ) .
Advise the patient to use a non - hormonal back - up method for the first 7 days of tablet - taking .
• Cryselle may be initiated immediately after a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage .
If the patient starts Cryselle immediately , back - up contraception is not needed .
If spotting or breakthrough bleeding occurs If spotting or breakthrough bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance ; however , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged .
Missed Tablets The possibility of ovulation and pregnancy increases with each successive day that scheduled white tablets are missed .
If withdrawal bleeding does not occur , the possibility of pregnancy must be considered .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule ( if she missed one or more tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the probability of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
For additional patient instructions regarding missed tablets , see the WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS section in FDA - Approved Patient Labeling below .
Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Cryselle ® ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) , 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 03 mg are available in packages of 6 blister card dispensers ( NDC 0555 - 9049 - 58 ) , each containing 28 tablets as follows : 21 active , white , round , film - coated , biconvex tablets debossed with dp on one side and 543 on the other side and 7 inert , round , light - green colored , uncoated tablets debossed dp and 331 .
Store at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77º F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . G 7 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Cryselle ® ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) What is the most important information I should know about Cryselle ?
Do not use Cryselle if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is Cryselle ?
Cryselle is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does Cryselle work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of clinical studies , about 1 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Cryselle .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take Cryselle ?
Do not take Cryselle if you : • smoke and are over 35 years old • had blood clots in the legs , arms , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or have any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • have liver problems , including liver tumors • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant • have or had breast cancer • have a known allergy or hypersensitivity to any of the components of Cryselle ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) You should not take the pill if you take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
If any of these conditions happen while you are taking Cryselle , stop taking Cryselle right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking Cryselle .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Cryselle ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • have a condition called hereditary angioedema • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Cryselle may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in Cryselle may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Cryselle may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well Cryselle works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Cryselle ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of Cryselle ?
• Like pregnancy , Cryselle may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
• Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • leg pain that will not go away • sudden severe shortness of breath • sudden change in vision or blindness • chest pain • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure • gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
What are the most common side effects of Cryselle ?
• menstrual complaints , including unscheduled bleeding and spotting • nausea • headache ( including migraine ) • weight increase or decrease • cervical erosion • acne • menstrual cramps • vaginal discharge • stomach pain , discomfort , and gas • increase in appetite • depression • nervousness • dark areas on your face • fatigue • worsening of varicose veins These are not all the possible side effects of Cryselle .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking Cryselle ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking Cryselle .
Certain blood tests may be affected by Cryselle .
• Cryselle does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store Cryselle ?
• Store Cryselle at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Cryselle and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Store away from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of Cryselle : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Cryselle for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Cryselle to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about Cryselle .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Cryselle that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking Cryselle ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking Cryselle , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in Cryselle ?
Active ingredients : Each white pill contains norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : White pills : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol and pregelatinized corn starch .
Light - green pills : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Cryselle ® ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) Important Information about taking Cryselle • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill dispenser .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take Cryselle , talk to your healthcare provider .
• When you first start taking Cryselle , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking Cryselle .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken Cryselle according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking Cryselle .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 to 4 hours of taking your pill , take another pill of the same color from your extra pill dispenser .
If you do not have an extra pill dispenser , take the next pill in the dispenser you are currently using .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next pill dispenser the day after finishing your current pill dispenser .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms or spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking Cryselle at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use another form of contraception ( like condoms or spermicide ) during this time period .
BEFORE YOU START TAKING CRYSELLE • DECIDE WHAT TIME OF DAY YOU WANT TO TAKE YOUR PILL .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
• LOOK AT YOUR PILL PACK : The pill pack has 21 " active " white pills ( with hormones ) to take for 3 weeks , followed by 1 week of reminder light - green pills ( without hormones ) .
• FIND : 1 ) where on the pack to start taking pills , and 2 ) in what order to take the pills ( follow the arrows ) and 3 ) the week numbers printed on the pack .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
BE SURE YOU HAVE READY AT ALL TIMES : • Another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) to use as a back - up in case you miss pills • An extra , full pill pack WHEN TO START THE FIRST PACK OF PILLS You have a choice of which day to start taking your first pack of pills .
( See DAY 1 START or SUNDAY START directions below . )
Decide with your doctor or clinic which is the best day for you .
Pick a time of day which will be easy to remember .
DAY 1 START : • Pick the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period ( this is the day you start bleeding or spotting , even if it is almost midnight when the bleeding begins . )
• Place this day label strip on the cycle tablet dispenser over the area that has the days of the week ( starting with Sunday ) printed on the blister card .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : If the first day of your period is a Sunday , you can skip steps # 1 and # 2 .
3 .
Take the first " active " [ white ] pill of the first pack during the first 24 hours of your period .
4 .
You will not need to use a back - up method of birth control , since you are starting the pill at the beginning of your period .
SUNDAY START : • Take the first " active " white pill of the first pack on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the pack that same day .
• Use a non - hormonal method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first pack until the next Sunday ( 7 days ) .
WHAT TO DO DURING THE MONTH • Take one pill at the same time every day until the pack is empty .
Do not skip pills even if you are spotting or bleeding between monthly periods or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• When you finish a pack : Start the next pack on the day after your last " reminder " pill .
Do not wait any days between packs .
IF YOU SWITCH FROM ANOTHER BRAND OF COMBINATION PILLS : If your previous brand had 21 pills : Wait 7 days to start taking Cryselle .
You will probably have your period during that week .
Ideally , be sure that no more than 7 days pass between the 21 - day pack and taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) .
If you start Cryselle more than 7 days after taking the last pill of your previous contraceptive , you must use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control during the first 7 days of Cryselle use .
If your previous brand had 28 pills : Start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) on the day after your last reminder pill .
Ideally , do not wait any days between packs .
If you do skip any days between the last pill of your previous contraceptive and starting Cryselle , you must use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control during the first 7 days of Cryselle use .
IF YOU SWITCH FROM ANOTHER TYPE OF BIRTH CONTROL METHOD : If you were previously taking a progestin - only PILL : You may switch to Cryselle on any day from a progestin - only pill and should start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) the day after you take your last progestin - only pill .
In addition , use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control for the first 7 days of tablet - taking .
If you are switching from a contraceptive vaginal ring or transdermal patch : Start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) on the day that you would have inserted a new ring or applied a new patch .
If you are switching from a contraceptive implant : Start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) on the day that the implant is removed .
If you are switching from a contraceptive injection : Start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) on the day that the next contraceptive injection is due .
If you are switching from an Intrauterine device ( IUD ) or Intrauterine system ( IUS ) : Start taking the first white Cryselle pill ( “ active ” with hormone ) on the day the IUD / IUS is removed .
If your IUD / IUS is removed on the first day of your period you do not need to use an additional non - hormonal back up method of birth control .
If the IUD / IUS is removed on any other day , use a non - hormonal back - up method of birth control for the first 7 days of tablet - taking .
WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS Cryselle may not be as effective if you miss white “ active ” pills , and particularly if you miss the first few or the last few white “ active ” pills in a pack .
If you MISS 1 white “ active ” pill : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you MISS 2 white “ active ” pills in a row in WEEK 1 OR WEEK 2 of your pack : • Take 2 pills on the day you remember and 2 pills the next day .
• Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you MISS 2 white “ active ” pills in a row in THE 3 rd WEEK : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE white “ active ” pills in a row ( during the first 3 weeks ) : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you forget any of the 7 light - green “ reminder ” pills in Week 4 : Throw away the pills you missed .
Keep taking 1 pill each day until the pack is empty .
You do not need a back - up non - hormonal birth control method if you start your next pack on time .
FINALLY , IF YOU ARE STILL NOT SURE WHAT TO DO ABOUT THE PILLS YOU HAVE MISSED Use a back - up non - hormonal birth control method anytime you have sex .
Keep taking one pill each day until you can reach your healthcare provider .
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . F 7 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 1 of 2 NDC 0555 - 9049 - 58 6 Blister Card Dispensers , 28 Tablets Each Cryselle ® ( norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 03 mg 21 white tablets , each containing 0 . 3 mg norgestrel , USP with 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , USP , and 7 light - green inert tablets .
Rx only SHAPING WOMEN ’ S HEALTH ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 2 of 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
