1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TZIELD is indicated to delay the onset of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes in adults and pediatric patients 8 years of age and older with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
TZIELD is a CD3 - directed antibody indicated to delay the onset of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with Stage 2 T1D ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Confirm Stage 2 T1D by documenting at least two positive pancreatic islet autoantibodies in those who have dysglycemia without overt hyperglycemia using an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) or alternative method if appropriate and OGTT is not available ( 2 . 1 ) .
• In patients who meet criteria for a diagnosis of Stage 2 type 1 diabetes , ensure the clinical history of the patient does not suggest type 2 diabetes ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Prior to initiating TZIELD , obtain a complete blood count and liver enzyme tests .
Use of TZIELD is not recommended in patients with certain laboratory abnormalities ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Must dilute TZIELD in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
See full prescribing information for detailed preparation and administration instructions ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) .
• Premedicate with : ( 1 ) a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) or acetaminophen , ( 2 ) an antihistamine , and / or ( 3 ) an antiemetic before each TZIELD dose for at least the first 5 days of the 14 - day treatment course ( 2 . 3 ) .
• Administer TZIELD by intravenous infusion ( over a minimum of 30 minutes ) once daily for 14 days .
See full prescribing information for the dosing schedule ( 2 . 4 ) .
2 . 1 Patient Selection Select adult patients and pediatric patients 8 years of age and older for TZIELD treatment who have a diagnosis of Stage 2 type 1 diabetes .
• Confirm Stage 2 type 1 diabetes by documenting : • At least two positive pancreatic islet cell autoantibodies • Dysglycemia without overt hyperglycemia using an oral glucose tolerance test ( if an oral glucose tolerance test is not available , an alternative method for diagnosing dysglycemia without overt hyperglycemia may be appropriate ) • Ensure the clinical history of the patient does not suggest type 2 diabetes .
2 . 2 Laboratory Evaluation and Vaccination Prior to Initiation • Prior to initiating TZIELD , obtain a complete blood count and liver enzyme tests .
• Use of TZIELD is not recommended in patients with [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] : • Lymphocyte count less than 1 , 000 lymphocytes / mcL • Hemoglobin less than 10 g / dL • Platelet count less than 150 , 000 platelets / mcL • Absolute neutrophil count less than 1 , 500 neutrophils / mcL • Elevated ALT or AST greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) or bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 times ULN • Laboratory or clinical evidence of acute infection with Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) or cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) • Active serious infection or chronic active infection other than localized skin infections • Administer all age - appropriate vaccinations prior to starting TZIELD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] : • Administer live - attenuated ( live ) vaccines at least 8 weeks prior to treatment .
• Administer inactivated ( killed ) vaccines or mRNA vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to treatment .
2 . 3 Important Preparation and Premedication Instructions The following are important preparation and premedication instructions : • Must dilute TZIELD prior to use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
• Premedicate prior to TZIELD infusion for the first 5 days of dosing with : ( 1 ) a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) or acetaminophen , ( 2 ) an antihistamine , and / or ( 3 ) an antiemetic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administer additional doses of premedication if needed .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage and Administration Administer TZIELD by intravenous infusion ( over a minimum of 30 minutes ) , using a body surface area - based dosing , once daily for 14 consecutive days as follows : • Day 1 : 65 mcg / m2 • Day 2 : 125 mcg / m2 • Day 3 : 250 mcg / m2 • Day 4 : 500 mcg / m2 • Days 5 through 14 : 1 , 030 mcg / m2 Do not administer two doses on the same day .
Recommendations Regarding Missed Dose ( s ) If a planned TZIELD infusion is missed , resume dosing by administering all remaining doses on consecutive days to complete the 14 - day treatment course .
2 . 5 Additional Preparation and Administration Instructions The following are additional preparation and administration instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] : • Inspect TZIELD visually before use ( the supplied solution is clear and colorless ) .
Do not use TZIELD if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• Prepare TZIELD using aseptic technique .
Each vial is intended for single dose only .
• Prepare a : • Sterile glass vial with 18 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or • Polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) infusion bag with 18 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
• Remove 2 mL of TZIELD from the vial and slowly add to the 18 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Mix gently by slowly inverting the vial or rocking the infusion bag .
The resulting 20 mL diluted solution contains 100 mcg / mL of teplizumab - mzwv .
• Using an appropriately sized syringe ( e . g . , 5 mL ) , withdraw the volume of diluted TZIELD solution required for that day ’ s calculated dose from the 100 mcg / mL solution .
• Slowly add contents of the syringe containing the TZIELD dose to a 25 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection PVC infusion bag .
Gently rock the infusion bag to ensure that the solution mixes sufficiently .
Do not shake .
• Discard unused portion of remaining diluted TZIELD solution in the sterile glass vial or PVC infusion bag .
• Start the TZIELD infusion within 2 hours of preparation .
If not used immediately , store the infusion solution at room temperature [ 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) ] and complete infusion within 4 hours of the start of preparation .
Discard the infusion solution if not administered within 4 hours of preparation .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 2 mg per 2 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) clear and colorless solution in a single - dose vial .
• Injection : 2 mg per 2 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) single - dose vial ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None .
( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cytokine Release Syndrome ( CRS ) : Premedicate , monitor liver enzymes , discontinue in those that develop elevated ALT or AST more than 5 times the upper limit of normal , and if severe CRS develops consider temporarily pausing dosing ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Serious Infections : Use of TZIELD is not recommended in patients with active serious infection or chronic infection .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection during and after TZIELD treatment .
If a serious infection develops , discontinue TZIELD ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Lymphopenia : Monitor white blood cell counts during the treatment period .
If prolonged severe lymphopenia ( < 500 cells per mcL lasting 1 week or longer ) develops , discontinue TZIELD ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions : If severe hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue TZIELD and treat promptly ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Vaccinations : Administer all age - appropriate vaccinations prior to starting TZIELD .
See recommendations regarding live - attenuated , inactivated , and mRNA vaccines ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Cytokine Release Syndrome Cytokine release syndrome ( CRS ) has been observed in TZIELD - treated patients .
In clinical trials , CRS was reported in 5 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 0 . 8 % of control - treated patients during the treatment period and through 28 days after the last study drug administration .
CRS manifestations in TZIELD - treated patients included fever , nausea , fatigue , headache , myalgia , arthralgia , increased alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , increased aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , and increased total bilirubin .
These manifestations typically occurred during the first 5 days of TZIELD treatment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
To mitigate CRS : • Premedicate with antipyretics , antihistamines and / or antiemetics prior to TZIELD treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Monitor liver enzymes during treatment .
Discontinue TZIELD treatment in patients who develop elevated ALT or AST more than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) or bilirubin more than 3 times ULN .
• Treat symptoms of CRS with antipyretics , antihistamines and / or antiemetics .
If severe CRS develops , consider temporarily pausing dosing for 1 - 2 days ( and administer the remaining doses to complete the full 14 - day course on consecutive days ) or discontinuing treatment .
5 . 2 Serious Infections Bacterial and viral infections have occurred in TZIELD - treated patients .
In clinical trials , TZIELD - treated patients had a higher rate of serious infections ( 3 . 5 % ) than control - treated patients ( 2 % ) , including gastroenteritis , cellulitis , pneumonia , abscess , sepsis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Use of TZIELD is not recommended in patients with active serious infection or chronic infection other than localized skin infections .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection during and after TZIELD treatment .
If serious infection develops , treat appropriately , and discontinue TZIELD .
5 . 3 Lymphopenia In clinical trials , 78 % of TZIELD - treated patients developed lymphopenia compared to 11 % of control - treated patients .
For most TZIELD - treated patients who experienced lymphopenia , lymphocyte levels began to recover after the fifth day of treatment and returned to pre - treatment values within two weeks after treatment completion and without dose interruption .
Severe lymphopenia ( < 500 cells per mcL ) lasting 1 week or longer occurred in 0 . 9 % of TZIELD - treated patients , and 0 . 5 % of TZIELD - treated patients permanently discontinued TZIELD because of lymphopenia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor white blood cell counts during the treatment period .
If prolonged severe lymphopenia ( < 500 cells per mcL lasting 1 week or longer ) develops , discontinue TZIELD .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Acute hypersensitivity reactions including serum sickness , angioedema , urticaria , rash , vomiting and bronchospasm occurred in TZIELD - treated patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
If severe hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue use of TZIELD and treat promptly .
5 . 5 Vaccinations The safety of immunization with live - attenuated vaccines in TZIELD - treated patients has not been studied .
Additionally , TZIELD may interfere with the immune response to vaccination and decrease vaccine efficacy .
• Administer all age - appropriate vaccinations prior to starting TZIELD [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Inactivated or mRNA vaccinations are not recommended within the 2 weeks prior to TZIELD treatment , during treatment , or 6 weeks after completion of treatment .
• Live - attenuated vaccinations are not recommended within the 8 weeks prior to TZIELD treatment , during treatment , or up to 52 weeks after treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the Prescribing Information : • Cytokine Release Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Serious Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Lymphopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) were lymphopenia , rash , leukopenia and headache ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Provention Bio at 1 - 844 - 778 - 2246 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Placebo - Controlled Study in Patients with Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes The data in Table 1 are derived from the placebo - controlled study ( Study TN - 10 ) in patients aged 8 years and older with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
These data reflect exposure of 44 patients of whom 93 % completed the full 14 - day treatment course .
Pool of Five Controlled Clinical Studies in Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes and in an Unapproved Population Adverse reactions in TZIELD - treated patients were also evaluated in a larger pool of adult and pediatric patients who participated in five controlled clinical studies ( including Study TN - 10 described above ) : • One study in patients with Stage 2 T1D ( Study TN - 10 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , • Three placebo - controlled studies in an unapproved population , • One open - label standard - of - care controlled study of TZIELD in an unapproved population .
In this pool : • 773 patients received TZIELD ( 44 patients with Stage 2 TID and 729 patients from an unapproved population ) , and • 245 patients received either placebo or standard of care control ( 32 patients with Stage 2 T1D and 213 patients from an unapproved population ) .
In these studies , 436 patients received a 14 - day dosing regimen of TZIELD with a total drug exposure that was comparable to the total drug exposure achieved with the recommended dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] , 168 patients received a 14 - day course of TZIELD with a lower total TZIELD drug exposure , and 169 patients received a 6 - day course of TZIELD with a lower total TZIELD drug exposure .
The mean age of TZIELD - treated patients was 17 . 6 years ( median 15 years ) , 62 % were < 18 years old ( 40 % age 12 to 17 ; 21 % age 8 to 11 ) , and 64 % were male .
The population was 72 % White , 26 % Asian , 1 % Black or African American , 1 % were multiple or unknown race , and < 1 % American Indian or Alaska Native ; 5 % were Hispanic or Latino ethnicity .
Common Adverse Reactions Table 1 presents common ( ≥ 5 % ) adverse reactions that occurred during treatment and through 28 days after the last study drug administration in Study TN - 10 .
Adverse reactions observed in pediatric patients 8 years and older who received TZIELD were consistent with those reported in adult patients in this study .
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] in Adult and Pediatric Patients Aged 8 Years and Older with Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes ( Study TN - 10 ) [ 2 ] Adverse Reaction Placebo N = 32 TZIELD N = 44 Lymphopenia 6 % 73 % Rash [ 3 ] 0 % 36 % Leukopenia 0 % 21 % Headache 6 % 11 % Neutropenia 3 % 5 % Increased alanine aminotransferase 3 % 5 % Nausea 3 % 5 % Diarrhea 0 % 5 % Nasopharyngitis 0 % 5 % [ 1 ] That occurred during treatment and through 28 days after the last study drug administration [ 2 ] Adverse reactions that occurred in 2 or more TZIELD - treated patients [ 3 ] Composite of rash - related terms including rash erythematous , rash macular , rash papular , rash maculo - papular , rash pruritic Cytokine Release Syndrome ( CRS ) In Study TN - 10 , CRS was reported in 2 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Of the 39 TZIELD - treated patients that developed CRS ( 5 % of all TZIELD - treated patients ) in the pool of 5 clinical trials , 13 % of the CRS cases were serious adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Liver transaminase elevations were observed in 56 % of TZIELD - treated patients who experienced CRS : 64 % were up to 2 . 5 times ULN , 32 % were more than 2 . 5 to 5 times ULN , and 4 . 5 % were 5 - 10 times ULN .
Serious Infections In Study TN - 10 , serious infections ( cellulitis , gastroenteritis , pneumonia , wound infection ) were reported in 9 % ( 4 / 44 ) of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 0 % ( 0 / 32 ) of placebo - treated patients any time during or after the first dose of study treatment .
Rash and Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions were reported with TZIELD in Study TN - 10 .
Serum sickness was observed in 2 % ( 1 / 44 ) of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 0 % ( 0 / 32 ) of placebo - treated patients .
The patient who developed serum sickness had a prior history of positive anti - nuclear antibody and presented with arthralgias and elevated c - reactive protein and low C4 complement five days after completing their course of TZIELD ; illness resolved in 2 . 5 months .
In the pool of 5 clinical trials of patients : • Anaphylaxis ( with hypoxia and bronchospasm ) was observed in one TZIELD - treated patient who was hospitalized .
• Angioedema ( periorbital and facial ) was observed in 0 . 3 % TZIELD - treated patients , compared to 0 % in control - treated patients .
Peripheral and generalized edema was reported in 1 . 6 % of TZIELD - treated patients and 0 % of control - treated patients .
• Rash was observed in 48 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 15 % in control - treated patients , with 33 excess cases of rash per 100 patients .
The majority of rashes observed with TZIELD treatment were not serious and resolved without intervention ; although 0 . 3 % ( 2 / 773 ) of TZIELD - treated patients had a serious rash compared to 0 % ( 0 / 245 ) of placebo - treated patients .
• Urticaria was reported in 1 . 9 % of TZIELD - treated patients and in 1 . 2 % of control - treated patients .
Immunogenicity : Anti - Drug Antibody - Associated Adverse Reactions In Study TN - 10 , rash occurred in 39 % of TZIELD - treated patients who developed anti - teplizumab - mzwv antibodies and in 33 % of TZIELD - treated patients who did not develop anti - teplizumab - mzwv antibodies [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
Other Adverse Reactions Lymphopenia In Study TN - 10 , lymphopenia was reported in 73 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 6 % of placebo - treated patients .
The average lymphocyte count nadir occurred at Day 5 of treatment , with recovery and return to baseline by Week 6 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Neutropenia In Study TN - 10 , neutropenia was observed in 7 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
Anemia and Thrombocytopenia In the pool of 5 clinical trials of patients , anemia was reported in 27 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 21 % of placebo - treated patients , and thrombocytopenia was reported in 13 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 5 % of placebo - treated patients during the 14 - day treatment course ; recovery occurred within 2 to 4 weeks of treatment .
In clinical trials , 1 . 8 % of TZIELD - treated patients discontinued treatment due to hemoglobin less than 8 . 5 g / dL ( or a decrease of more than 2 g / dL to a value less than 10 g / dL ) , and 1 % discontinued TZIELD due to platelet count less than 50 , 000 platelets / mcL .
Liver Enzyme Elevations Liver enzyme elevations were observed in TZIELD - treated patients , both in the context of CRS and in patients without CRS .
In the pool of 5 clinical trials , elevated aminotransferases were reported in 25 % of TZIELD - treated patients compared to 11 % of placebo - treated patients during the 14 - day treatment course .
On laboratory analysis , 5 . 1 % of TZIELD - treated patients experienced a peak ALT more than 3 times the ULN compared to 0 . 8 % of control - treated patients .
Most liver enzyme elevations were transient and resolved 1 - 2 weeks after treatment ; 98 % resolved by follow - up week 14 .
Other Laboratory Abnormalities In the pool of 5 clinical trials , other laboratory abnormalities including decreased bicarbonate ( 15 % in TZIELD - treated patients , compared to 7 % in placebo - treated patients ) and decreased blood calcium ( 19 % in TZIELD - treated patients , compared to 13 % in placebo - treated patients ) were noted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : May cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) .
• Lactation : A lactating woman may consider pumping and discarding breast milk during and for 20 days after TZIELD administration ( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available case reports from clinical trials with TZIELD are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Although there are no data on teplizumab - mzwv , monoclonal antibodies can be actively transported across the placenta , and TZIELD may cause immunosuppression in the utero - exposed infant ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
To minimize exposure to a fetus , avoid use of TZIELD during pregnancy and at least 30 days ( 6 half - lives ) prior to planned pregnancy .
TZIELD is not active in rodents .
In animal reproduction studies , mice were given a surrogate anti - mouse CD3 antibody subcutaneously during organogenesis through lactation .
Pups born to dams administered the murine surrogate antibody during pregnancy showed a reduction in the adaptive immune response consistent with the expected pharmacology ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Report pregnancies to Provention Bio , Inc . ’ s Adverse Event reporting line at 1 - 844 - 778 - 2246 .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Transport of endogenous IgG antibodies across the placenta increases as pregnancy progresses , and peaks during the third trimester .
Because teplizumab - mzwv may interfere with immune response to infections , risks and benefits should be considered prior to administering live vaccines to infants exposed to teplizumab - mzwv in utero .
There are insufficient data regarding infant serum levels of teplizumab - mzwv at birth and the duration of persistence of teplizumab - mzwv in infant serum after birth to identify a specific timeframe to delay live virus immunizations in infants exposed in utero .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal developmental toxicity study , pregnant mice were administered a murine surrogate anti - mouse CD3 antibody by subcutaneous injection at dose levels of 0 , 0 . 03 , 0 . 3 , or 20 mg / kg on Gestation Days 6 , 10 , and 14 .
Increase in post - implantation loss occurred in the 20 mg / kg group , in the presence of maternal toxicity .
In a pre - and postnatal development toxicity study in pregnant mice , in which the murine surrogate antibody was administered every 3 days from gestation day 6 through lactation day 19 at doses of 0 , 0 . 3 , 3 , or 20 mg / kg , no maternal toxicity or increased incidence of post - implantation loss was observed .
Reductions in T cell populations and increases in B cells , and a reduction in the adaptive immune response to keyhole limpet hemocyanin ( KLH ) were observed in the offspring on postnatal days 35 and 84 at 20 mg / kg .
The surrogate antibody was present in the offspring serum at level less than 1 . 5 % that of maternal serum at the high dose .
A trend towards reduction in fertility was observed in the offspring of dams administered the murine surrogate antibody at 20 mg / kg .
The human relevance of this finding is unknown .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of teplizumab - mzwv in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Endogenous maternal IgG and monoclonal antibodies are transferred into human milk .
The effects of local gastrointestinal exposure and limited systemic exposure in the breastfed infant to teplizumab - mzwv are unknown .
Although the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for TZIELD and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from TZIELD or from the underlying maternal condition , a lactating woman may interrupt breastfeeding and pump and discard breast milk during treatment and for 20 days after TZIELD administration to minimize drug exposure to a breastfed child .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TZIELD to delay the onset of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients 8 years of age and older with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes .
Use of TZIELD for this indication is supported by evidence from an adequate and well - controlled study ( Study TN - 10 ) in adults and pediatric patients 8 years of age and older ( including 29 pediatric patients ) .
Adverse reactions observed in pediatric patients 8 years of age and older who received TZIELD were consistent with those reported in adult patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of TZIELD have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 8 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Stage 2 type 1 diabetes is largely a condition that occurs in pediatric and younger adult patients .
Clinical studies of TZIELD to delay the onset of Stage 3 T1D did not include patients 65 years of age and older .
11 DESCRIPTION Teplizumab - mzwv is a CD3 - directed monoclonal antibody ( humanized IgG1 kappa ) that has a molecular weight of approximately 150 kilodalton ( kDa ) and is expressed from a recombinant Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line .
TZIELD ( teplizumab - mzwv ) injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , clear and colorless solution in a 2 mg / 2 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) single - dose vial for intravenous use .
Each mL contains 1 mg of teplizumab - mzwv , dibasic sodium phosphate ( 0 . 26 mg ) , monobasic sodium phosphate ( 0 . 98 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 05 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 8 . 78 mg ) , and water for injection .
The pH is 6 . 1 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Teplizumab - mzwv binds to CD3 ( a cell surface antigen present on T lymphocytes ) and delays the onset of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes .
The mechanism may involve partial agonistic signaling and deactivation of pancreatic beta cell autoreactive T lymphocytes .
Teplizumab - mzwv leads to an increase in the proportion of regulatory T cells and of exhausted CD8 + T cells in peripheral blood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical studies have shown that teplizumab - mzwv binds to CD3 molecules on the surface of both CD4 + and CD8 + T cells during treatment , with internalization of the teplizumab - mzwv / CD3 complex from the surface of T cells .
Pharmacodynamic effects include lymphopenia in the absence of depletion of T cells with a nadir on the 5 th day of dosing , during a 14 - day course of TZIELD treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Teplizumab - mzwv exposure - response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamic response for the safety and effectiveness of teplizumab - mzwv have not been fully characterized .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Steady state concentrations of teplizumab - mzwv are not expected to be achieved during the 14 - day course of TZIELD .
Distribution The central volume of distribution ( Vd ) of teplizumab - mzwv was 2 . 27 L in a 60 kg subject .
Elimination Teplizumab - mzwv showed saturable binding and elimination .
The mean ( SD ) terminal elimination half - life and clearance of teplizumab - mzwv are 4 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) days and 2 . 7 ( 0 . 8 ) L / day in a 60 kg subject , respectively .
Metabolism Teplizumab - mzwv is expected to be metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of teplizumab - mzwv were observed based on age ( 8 to 35 years old ) , biologic sex , or racial groups ( White , Asians ) .
BSA - based dosing normalizes the exposure to teplizumab - mzwv across body weight .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of teplizumab - mzwv or of other teplizumab products .
In the placebo - controlled study in patients aged 8 years of age and older with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes ( Study TN - 10 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , approximately 57 % of TZIELD - treated patients developed anti - teplizumab - mzwv antibodies , 46 % of whom developed neutralizing antibodies .
There is insufficient information to characterize the effects of ADA on pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics , or effectiveness of TZIELD .
There was a higher incidence of rash in TZIELD - treated patients who developed anti - teplizumab - mzwv antibodies compared to those who did not develop anti - teplizumab - mzwv antibodies [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies have been performed to assess the carcinogenic potential of teplizumab - mzwv .
No studies have been performed to assess the mutagenic potential of teplizumab - mzwv .
As an antibody , teplizumab - mzwv is not expected to interact directly with DNA .
Fertility and reproductive performance were unaffected in female and male mice that received a murine surrogate anti - mouse CD3 antibody administered by the subcutaneous route at doses up to 20 mg / kg .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of TZIELD was investigated in a randomized , double - blind , event - driven , placebo - controlled study ( Study TN - 10 ; NCT01030861 ) in 76 patients , 8 to 49 years of age with Stage 2 type 1 diabetes .
Stage 2 type 1 diabetes was defined as having both of the following : • Two or more of the following pancreatic islet autoantibodies : • Glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 ( GAD ) autoantibodies • Insulin autoantibody ( IAA ) • Insulinoma - associated antigen 2 autoantibody ( IA - 2 A ) • Zinc transporter 8 autoantibody ( ZnT8A ) • Islet cell autoantibody ( ICA ) • Dysglycemia on oral glucose tolerance testing In this study , patients were randomized to receive TZIELD or placebo once daily by intravenous infusion for 14 days .
Patients in the TZIELD group had a total drug exposure that was comparable to the total drug exposure achieved with the recommended total TZIELD dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
The primary efficacy endpoint in this study was the time from randomization to development of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes diagnosis .
Baseline Patient Characteristics In this study , 45 % were female ; 97 % White , 1 % Asian , and 1 % reported multiracial background ; 3 % were Hispanic or Latino ethnicity ; and 95 % were from the United States .
The median age was 14 years ( 72 % were < 18 years old ) ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Baseline Age Characteristics of Adults and Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes ( Study TN - 10 ) [ 1 ] TZIELD N = 44 Placebo N = 32 Age Group ≥ 18 Years 34 % 19 % < 18 years 66 % 81 % Pediatric Age Group Quartiles 8 to < 11 years 21 % 25 % 11 to < 14 years 27 % 31 % 14 to < 18 years 18 % 25 % [ 1 ] Intent to treat ( ITT ) population Baseline Disease Characteristics Table 3 displays the baseline disease characteristics in Study TN - 10 .
Table 3 .
Baseline Disease Characteristics of Adults and Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes ( Study TN - 10 ) [ 1 ] TZIELD N = 44 Placebo N = 32 Glucose , mg / dL [ 2 ] median ( min , max ) 165 ( 115 , 207 ) 154 ( 103 , 200 ) HbA1c , % median ( min , max ) 5 . 2 ( 4 . 6 , 6 . 1 ) 5 . 3 ( 4 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) HLA - DR4 Missing 5 % 0 Absent 34 % 34 % Present 61 % 66 % HLA - DR3 Missing 5 % 0 Absent 48 % 53 % Present 48 % 47 % HLA - DR3 / DR4 Both DR3 and DR4 25 % 22 % DR3 only 23 % 25 % DR4 only 36 % 44 % Missing 5 % 0 Neither DR3 nor DR4 11 % 9 % Autoantibodies Positive ( N ) 1 2 % 0 2 27 % 22 % 3 25 % 16 % 4 27 % 44 % 5 18 % 19 % Autoantibody Type Positive GAD65 91 % 88 % IAA 43 % 34 % IA - 2 A 59 % 75 % ICA 66 % 88 % ZnT8 73 % 75 % Abbreviations : HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c , SD = standard deviation , HLA = human leukocyte antigen , GAD65 = Glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 ( GAD ) autoantibodies , IAA = Insulin autoantibody , IA - 2 A = Insulinoma - associated antigen 2 autoantibody , ZnT8A = Zinc transporter 8 autoantibody , ICA = Islet cell autoantibody [ 1 ] Intent to treat ( ITT ) population [ 2 ] The glucose data are area under the time - concentration curve ( AUC ) values from the oral glucose tolerance test Efficacy Results In Study TN - 10 , Stage 3 type 1 diabetes was diagnosed in 20 ( 45 % ) of the TZIELD - treated patients and in 23 ( 72 % ) of the placebo - treated patients .
A Cox proportional hazards model , stratified by age and oral glucose tolerance test status at randomization , demonstrated that the median time from randomization to Stage 3 type 1 diabetes diagnosis was 50 months in the TZIELD group and 25 months in the placebo group , for a difference of 25 months .
With a median follow - up time of 51 months , therapy with TZIELD resulted in a statistically significant delay in the development of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes , hazard ratio 0 . 41 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 22 to 0 . 78 ; p = 0 . 0066 ) ( Figure 1 ) .
Study TN - 10 was not designed to assess whether there were differences in the effectiveness between subgroups based on demographic characteristics or baseline disease characteristics .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Curve of Time to Diagnosis of Stage 3 Type 1 Diabetes in Adult and Pediatric Patients Aged 8 Years and Older with Stage 2 Type 1 Diabetes by Treatment Group ( Study TN - 10 ) [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] ITT population [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING TZIELD ( teplizumab - mzwv ) injection is a clear and colorless solution ( 2 mg / 2 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) ) supplied in a single - dose vial as follows : Carton Contents NDC 1 single dose vial NDC 73650 - 316 - 01 10 single dose vials NDC 73650 - 316 - 10 14 single dose vials NDC 73650 - 316 - 14 Refrigerate TZIELD vials at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Store upright .
Do not freeze or shake the vials .
If not used immediately , store the diluted solution at room temperature [ 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) ] and complete infusion within 4 hours of the start of preparation .
Discard the diluted solution if not administered within 4 hours of preparation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Cytokine Release Syndrome Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of CRS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serious Infections Inform patients that TZIELD may lower the ability of the immune system to fight infections .
Instruct patients to contact their health care provider if they develop any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Lymphopenia Inform patients that although most TZIELD - treated patients had mild lymphopenia ; a few had severe lymphopenia that required stopping TZIELD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and instruct them to stop taking TZIELD and seek medical attention promptly if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Vaccinations Advise patient to receive all age - appropriate vaccinations prior to starting TZIELD and avoid concurrent use of live , inactivated , and mRNA vaccines with TZIELD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to inform their health care provider of a known or suspected pregnancy .
Advise patients who are exposed to TZIELD during pregnancy to contact Provention Bio , Inc . ’ s Adverse Event reporting line at 1 - 844 - 778 - 2246 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a lactating woman that she may interrupt breastfeeding and pump and discard breast milk during treatment and for 20 days after TZIELD administration to minimize drug exposure to a breastfed infant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Provention Bio , Inc . 55 Broad Street Red Bank , NJ 07701 U . S . License Number : 2170 TZIELD is a trademark of Provention Bio , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 , Provention Bio , Inc .
All rights reserved .
MEDICATION GUIDE TZIELD ™ ( TEE - zeeld ) ( teplizumab - mzwv ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about TZIELD ?
TZIELD may cause serious side effects , including : • Cytokine Release Syndrome ( CRS ) .
Signs and symptoms of CRS problems may include : • fever • feeling tired ( fatigue ) • muscle and joint pain • nausea • headache • increased liver enzymes in your blood These signs and symptoms may start during the first 5 days of TZIELD treatment .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop any signs and symptoms of CRS during treatment with TZIELD .
• Decrease in white blood cells .
TZIELD may cause a decrease in a type of white blood cell called lymphocytes .
A decrease in white blood cells is a serious , but common side effect that can affect your body ' s ability to fight infections .
A decrease in white blood cell counts can happen after your first dose .
Your white blood cell counts will start to go back to normal after your fifth dose of TZIELD .
Some people may develop longer and more severe decreases in lymphocytes .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your liver and your complete blood counts before you start treatment and during treatment with TZIELD .
During and after your treatment with TZIELD , your healthcare provider will check for serious side effects , as well as other side effects , and treat you as needed .
Your healthcare provider may temporarily or completely stop your treatment with TZIELD , if you develop liver problems , have a serious infection , or if your blood counts stay too low .
See " What are the possible side effects of TZIELD ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is TZIELD ?
TZIELD is a prescription medicine used to delay the onset of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes , which is when your body can ’ t make enough insulin on its own and may require insulin injections .
TZIELD is for adults and children 8 years of age and older who have Stage 2 type 1 diabetes .
This means that they have tested positive for 2 or more type 1 diabetes - related autoantibodies , have abnormal blood sugar levels and do not have type 2 diabetes .
It is not known if TZIELD is safe and effective in children under 8 years of age .
Before or after receiving TZIELD , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have any of the conditions or symptoms listed in the section " What is the most important information I should know about TZIELD ? "
• have a serious infection or an infection that does not go away or that keeps coming back ( chronic ) .
• have recently received or are scheduled to receive an immunization ( vaccine ) .
TZIELD may affect how well a vaccine works .
Tell your healthcare provider that you are receiving treatment with TZIELD before receiving a vaccine .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
TZIELD may harm your unborn baby .
Do not receive TZIELD during pregnancy and at least 30 days before a planned pregnancy .
• If you become pregnant while taking TZIELD , you are encouraged to report your pregnancy to the Provention Bio ’ s Adverse Event reporting line at 1 - 844 - 778 - 2246 .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breast feed .
It is not known if TZIELD passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you receive TZIELD .
If you are breastfeeding , you may consider pumping and throwing away your breast milk during treatment with TZIELD and for 20 days after receiving TZIELD treatment .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive TZIELD ?
• TZIELD is given by a healthcare provider through a needle placed in a vein ( intravenous infusion ) in your arm .
• You will receive a TZIELD infusion one - time a day , every day , for 14 days .
Each TZIELD infusion will last about 30 minutes .
• For the first 5 days of treatment , your healthcare provider will give you medicines by mouth before starting your TZIELD infusion .
These medicines include ibuprofen , naproxen or other pain relievers such as acetaminophen , an antihistamine , and an anti - nausea medicine .
These medicines may help reduce symptoms of CRS such as a fever , headache , muscle and joint pain , or nausea .
• If you miss a scheduled infusion , your healthcare provider will continue your treatment on the next scheduled day .
You will not receive 2 infusions on the same day .
Tell your healthcare provider if you think something will stop you from completing treatment with TZIELD .
What are the possible side effects of TZIELD ?
TZIELD may cause serious side effects including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about TZIELD ? "
The most common side effects of TZIELD include : • rash • leukopenia ( decrease in white blood cell counts ) • headache These are not all of the possible side effects of TZIELD .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Provention Bio at 1 - 844 - 778 - 2246 .
General information about the safe and effective use of TZIELD .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TZIELD that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TZIELD ?
Active ingredient : teplizumab - mzwv .
Inactive ingredients : dibasic sodium phosphate , monobasic sodium phosphate , polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , and water for injection .
Manufactured by : Provention Bio , Inc . 55 Broad Street Red Bank , NJ 07701 U . S . License Number : 2170 TZIELD is a trademark of Provention Bio , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 , Provention Bio , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , call 1 - 908 - 336 - 0360 or go to www . tzield . com .
This Medication guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 11 / 2022 Package Label - 1 count - 2 mg / 2 mL Single - use Vial PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73650 - 316 - 01 Rx only Tzield ™ ( teplizumab - mzwv ) INJECTION 2 mg / 2 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Contains 1 single dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous infusion after dilution .
Store in the original carton to protect from light .
Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
proventionbio [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - 10 count - 2 mg / 2 mL Single - use Vial PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73650 - 316 - 10 Rx only Tzield ™ ( teplizumab - mzwv ) INJECTION 2 mg / 2 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Contains 10 single dose vials .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous infusion after dilution .
Store in the original carton to protect from light .
Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
proventionbio [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - 14 count - 2 mg / 2 mL Single - use Vial PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73650 - 316 - 14 Rx only Tzield ™ ( teplizumab - mzwv ) INJECTION 2 mg / 2 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Contains 14 single dose vials .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous infusion after dilution .
Store in the original carton to protect from light .
Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
proventionbio [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
