DESCRIPTION Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile , borate buffered , solution for topical ocular use .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight = 327 . 85 Molecular Formula : C17H25NO3 • HCl Established name : Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Chemical name : 2 - ( Dimethylamino ) ethyl 1 - hydroxy - α - phenylcyclopentaneacetate hydrochloride Each mL contains : Active : cyclopentolate hydrochloride 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : boric acid , edetate disodium , potassium chloride , sodium carbonate and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) , water for injection .
The pH range is between 3 . 0 and 5 . 5 .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the accommodative muscle of the ciliary body to cholinergic stimulation , producing papillary dilation ( mydriasis ) and paralysis of accommodation ( cycloplegia ) .
It acts rapidly , but has a shorter duration than atropine .
Maximal cycloplegia occurs within 25 to 75 minutes after instillation .
Complete recovery of accommodation usually takes 6 to 24 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require several days .
Heavily pigmented irides may require more doses than lightly pigmented irides .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Cyclopentolate hydrochloride is used to produce mydriasis and cycloplegia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Should not be used when untreated narrow - angle glaucoma , or untreated anatomically narrow angles are present , or if the patient is hypersensitive to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
This preparation may cause CNS disturbances .
This is especially true in younger age groups , but may occur at any age , especially with the stronger solutions .
Infants are especially prone to CNS and cardiopulmonary side effects from cyclopentolate .
To minimize absorption , use only 1 drop of 0 . 5 % Cyclopentolate hydrochloride solution per eye , followed by pressure applied over the nasolacrimal sac for two to three minutes .
Observe infants closely for at least 30 minutes following instillation .
Mydriatics may produce a transient elevation of intraocular pressure .
PRECAUTIONS General The lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation to reduce excessive systemic absorption .
Caution should be observed when considering use of this medication in the presence of Down ' s syndrome and in those predisposed to angle - closure glaucoma .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
A transient burning sensation may occur upon instillation .
Patients should be advised not to drive or engage in other hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patients may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ' s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ' s hands following administration .
Feeding intolerance may follow ophthalmic use of this product in infants .
It is recommended that feeding be withheld for four ( 4 ) hours after examination .
Drug Interactions Cyclopentolate may interfere with the ocular anti - hypertensive action of carbachol , pilocarpine , or ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals or humans have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of cyclopentolate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with cyclopentolate .
It is also not known whether cyclopentolate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cyclopentolate should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when cyclopentolate hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Use of cyclopentolate has been associated with psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances in pediatric patients .
Increased susceptibility to cyclopentolate has been reported in infants , young children , and in children with spastic paralysis or brain damage .
These disturbances include ataxia , incoherent speech , restlessness , hallucinations , hyperactivity , seizures , disorientation as to time and place , and failure to recognize people .
Feeding intolerance may follow ophthalmic use of this product in infants .
It is recommended that feeding be withheld for four ( 4 ) hours after examination .
Observe infants closely for at least 30 minutes ( See WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular : Increased intraocular pressure , burning , photophobia , blurred vision , irritation , hyperemia , conjunctivitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , punctate keratitis , synechiae have been reported .
Non - ocular : Use of cyclopentolate has been associated with psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances , usually in children , especially with 2 % concentration .
These disturbances include ataxia , incoherent speech , restlessness , hallucinations , hyperactivity , seizures , disorientation as to time and place , and failure to recognize people .
This drug produces reactions similar to those of other anticholinergic drugs , but the central nervous system manifestations as noted above are more common .
Other toxic manifestations of anticholinergic drugs are skin rash , abdominal distention in infants , unusual drowsiness , tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , vasodilation , urinary retention , diminished gastrointestinal motility and decreased secretion in salivary and sweat glands , pharynx , bronchi and nasal passages .
Severe manifestations of toxicity include coma , medullary paralysis and death .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive dosage may produce behavioral disturbances , tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , hypertension , elevated intraocular pressure , vasodilation , urinary retention , diminished gastrointestinal motility and decreased secretion in salivary and sweat glands , pharynx , bronchi and nasal passages .
Patients exhibiting signs of overdosage should receive supportive care and monitoring .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults : Instill one or two drops of 0 . 5 % solution in the eye which may be repeated in five to ten minutes if necessary .
Complete recovery usually occurs in 24 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require several days .
Children : Instill one or two drops of 0 . 5 % solution in the eye which may be repeated five to ten minutes later by a second application of 0 . 5 % solution if necessary .
Small Infants : A single instillation of one drop of 0 . 5 % in the eye .
To minimize absorption , apply pressure over the nasolacrimal sac for two to three minutes .
Observe infant closely for at least 30 minutes following instillation .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require higher strengths .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is supplied in multiple – dose plastic Boston Round Natural LDPE bottle with a 15 mm LLDPE dropper - tip and 15 mm polypropylene red cap .
NDC 17478 - 096 - 15 15 mL fill / 15 mL bottle Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx Only Akorn Logo Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 CPA0N Rev . 06 / 16 SPL MEDGUIDE Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 096 - 15 Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE Eye Logo Rx Only 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 17478 - 096 - 15 Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE Eye Logo 15 mL Rx only Akorn logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
