[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( s ) Fexofenadine HCl USP , 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Use ( s ) Allergy temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or otherupper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Hives reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occuring .
Warnings Hives Severe Allergic Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptom : • trouble swallowing • dizziness or loss of consciousness • swelling of tongue • swelling in or around mouth • trouble speaking • drooling • wheezing or problems breathing These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition canbe life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately . Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or upto a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrineinjector for “ anaphylaxis ” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur withyour hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector . If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it withyou at all times .
Do not use Allergy if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Hives • to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insect stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
• if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have Allergy • kidney disease .
Your doctorshould determine if you need a different dose .
Hives • kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • hives that do not itch When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask doctor if Allergy an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
Hives • an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions 180 mg adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use Adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if individual blister units are torn or opened .
Storage store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) protect from excessive moisture this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 .
Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , mannitol , and powdered cellulose , opadry pink 03B54504 containing FD & C Red no . 40 , hypromellose , iron oxide black , polyethylene glycol and titanium dioxide .
Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Limited Bachupally - 500 090 INDIA containercarton Container Carton Label : 30 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] Blister Carton Label : 15 count Blister Carton Label : 15 count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
