Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Diphenhydramine HCl 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses For the temporary relief of runny nose , sneezing , itching of the nose or throat , and itchy , watery eyes due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies or allergic rhinitis .
Warnings Do not use • with any other product containing Diphenhydramine , even one used on skin • to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if you have • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • difficulty in urination due to an enlargement of prostate gland Ask a doctor before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • Avoid alcoholic beverages • Marked drowsiness may occur • Alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect • Excitability may occur , especially in children • Be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • Take every 4 to 6 hours • Do not take more than 6 times in 24 hours Adults and Children 12 years of age and over 2 to 4 tablets Children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 to 2 tablets Children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Children under 4 years of age Do not use Other Information • Do not use if carton is opened or blister unit is broken • Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid high humidity .
Protect from light .
• See end panel for lot number and expiration date .
Inactive ingredients aqueous ethyl cellulose dispersion , citric acid , crospovidone , D and C Red # 7 calcium lake , dibasic calcium phosphate , flavor , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , mannitol , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , modified food starch , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , sucralose , talc , triacetin Principal Display Panel Capricorn Pharma ORIGINAL DEVELOPERS AND MANUFACTURERS NDC 66007 - 212 - 02 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN CHILDREN ' S BENADRYL ALLERGY FASTMELT Children ' s Allergy Diphenhydramine HCl 12 . 5 mg ANTIHISTAMINE Temporarily Relieves : • Sneezing • Itchy , Watery Eyes • Runny Nose • Itchy Throat Cherry FlavorRAPIDMELT 18 Fast Dissolving Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
