Active Ingredients Avobenzone ( 3 . 0 % ) , Octinoxate ( 6 . 0 % ) , Octisalate ( 2 . 5 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directons Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , Dimethicone , Isononyl isonanoate , Cetearyl alcohol , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Polyglyceryl - 3 - methylglucose distearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Sorbitan stearate , Mica , Polysorbate 20 , Alcohol denat . , Methylparaben , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Ethylparaben , Parfum ( fragrance ) , Laureth - 7 , Retinyl palmitate , Sucrose cocoate , Dipropylene glycol , Xanthan gum , ascorbyl glucoside , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , Lupinus albus seed extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , BHT , Tocopherol , Butylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Smooth fine lines and help delay new ones with this protecting and revitalising daytime formula , your first defence against the early signs of ageing .
Created to be used with our protect and pefect serum to help deliver even better results that the serum alone .
Hypoallergenic The Boots company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 For best results use every morning after cleansing and applying protect and perfect serum .
Simply smooth into our face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
With our firming pro - retinol complex containing lipopeptides to help boost and maintain elasticity .
JAR TEXT Active ingredients : Octinoxate 6 % , Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 2 . 5 % JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after applying your No7 serum .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream Protects young skin to delay the appearance of fine lines Sunscreen broad spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz P and P Day Cream carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] JAR TEXT No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream Hypo - allergenic Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz P and P Day Cream jar . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
