Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Diphenhydramine HCl 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • sneezing • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on the skin • to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if the child has • a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • a sodium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • marked drowsiness may occur • sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • excitability may occur , especially in children Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours • take every 4 to 6 hours , or as directed by a doctor • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• mL = milliliter • keep dosing cup with product • find the right dose on the chart below Age ( yr ) Dose ( mL ) children 6 to 11 years 5 mL to 10 mL children 2 to 5 years do not use unless directed by a doctor children under 2 years do not use Inactive ingredients glycerin , Methylparaben Sodium , Propylparaben Sodium , Sodium Benzoate , Sucralose , sorbitol , Citric acid monohydrate , D & C red # 33 , FD & C red # 40 , flavor & purified water .
Other information • Each 5 mL contains : Sodium 0 . 03 mg • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
• protect from light .
Store in outer carton until contents are used .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 826 - 1306 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
* Compare to the active ingredient in Children ' s Benadryl ® Allergy Relief of Runny Nose , Sneezing , Itchy Throat & Itchy , Watery Eyes For Ages 6 to 11 Years Alcohol Free Cherry Flavor * This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNeil Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Benadryl ® Allergy .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND BOTTLE OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Distributed by : Delsam Pharma Llc Bronx , Newyork 10467 .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
