DESCRIPTION Zileuton is an orally active inhibitor of 5 - lipoxygenase , the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid .
Zileuton has the chemical name ( ± ) - 1 - ( 1 - Benzo [ b ] thien - 2 - ylethyl ) - 1 - hydroxyurea and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zileuton has the molecular formula C11H12N2O2S and a molecular weight of 236 . 29 .
It is a racemic mixture ( 50 : 50 ) of R ( + ) and S ( - ) enantiomers .
Zileuton is a practically odorless , white , crystalline powder that is soluble in methanol and ethanol , slightly soluble in acetonitrile , and practically insoluble in water and hexane .
The melting point ranges from 144 . 2 ˚ C to 145 . 2 ˚ C .
ZYFLO tablets for oral administration are supplied in one dosage strength containing 600 mg of zileuton .
Inactive Ingredients : crospovidone , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Zileuton is a specific inhibitor of 5 - lipoxygenase and thus inhibits leukotriene ( LTB4 , LTC4 , LTD4 , and LTE4 ) formation .
Both the R ( + ) and S ( - ) enantiomers are pharmacologically active as 5 - lipoxygenase inhibitors in in vitro systems .
Leukotrienes are substances that induce numerous biological effects including augmentation of neutrophil and eosinophil migration , neutrophil and monocyte aggregation , leukocyte adhesion , increased capillary permeability , and smooth muscle contraction .
These effects contribute to inflammation , edema , mucus secretion , and bronchoconstriction in the airways of asthmatic patients .
Sulfido - peptide leukotrienes ( LTC4 , LTD4 , LTE4 , also known as the slow - releasing substances of anaphylaxis ) and LTB4 , a chemoattractant for neutrophils and eosinophils , can be measured in a number of biological fluids including bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF ) from asthmatic patients .
Zileuton is an orally active inhibitor of ex vivo LTB4 formation in several species , including dogs , monkeys , rats , sheep , and rabbits .
Zileuton inhibits arachidonic acid - induced ear edema in mice , neutrophil migration in mice in response to polyacrylamide gel , and eosinophil migration into the lungs of antigen - challenged sheep .
Zileuton inhibits leukotriene - dependent smooth muscle contractions in vitro in guinea pig and human airways .
The compound inhibits leukotriene - dependent bronchospasm in antigen and arachidonic acid - challenged guinea pigs .
In antigen - challenged sheep , zileuton inhibits late - phase bronchoconstriction and airway hyperreactivity .
In humans , pretreatment with zileuton attenuated bronchoconstriction caused by cold air challenge in patients with asthma .
PHARMACOKINETICS Zileuton is rapidly absorbed upon oral administration with a mean time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) of 1 . 7 hours and a mean peak level ( Cmax ) of 4 . 98 μg / mL .
The absolute bioavailability of ZYFLO is unknown .
Systemic exposure ( mean AUC ) following 600 mg ZYFLO administration is 19 . 2 μg . hr / mL .
Plasma concentrations of zileuton are proportional to dose , and steady - state levels are predictable from single - dose pharmacokinetic data .
Administration of ZYFLO with food resulted in a small but statistically significant increase ( 27 % ) in zileuton Cmax without significant changes in the extent of absorption ( AUC ) or Tmax .
Therefore , ZYFLO can be administered with or without food ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of zileuton is approximately 1 . 2 L / kg .
Zileuton is 93 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily to albumin , with minor binding to αl - acid glycoprotein .
Elimination of zileuton is predominantly via metabolism with a mean terminal half - life of 2 . 5 hours .
Apparent oral clearance of zileuton is 7 . 0 mL / min / kg .
ZYFLO activity is primarily due to the parent drug .
Studies with radiolabeled drug demonstrated that orally administered zileuton is well absorbed into the systemic circulation with 94 . 5 % and 2 . 2 % of the radiolabeled dose recovered in urine and feces , respectively .
Several zileuton metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
These include two diastereomeric O - glucuronide conjugates ( major metabolites ) and an N - dehydroxylated metabolite of zileuton .
The urinary excretion of the inactive N - dehydroxylated metabolite and unchanged zileuton each accounted for less than 0 . 5 % of the dose .
In vitro studies utilizing human liver microsomes have shown that zileuton and its N - dehydroxylated metabolite can be oxidatively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 1A2 , 2C9 and 3A4 ( CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 ) .
Special populations : Effect of age : The pharmacokinetics of zileuton were investigated in healthy elderly volunteers ( ages 65 to 81 years , 9 males , 9 females ) and healthy young volunteers ( ages 20 to 40 years , 5 males and 4 females ) after single and multiple oral doses of 600 mg every 6 hours of zileuton .
Zileuton pharmacokinetics were similar in healthy elderly subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) compared to healthy younger adults ( 18 to 40 years ) .
Effect of gender : Across several studies , no significant gender effects were observed on the pharmacokinetics of zileuton .
Renal insufficiency : The pharmacokinetics of zileuton were similar in healthy subjects and in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal insufficiency .
In subjects with renal failure requiring hemodialysis , zileuton pharmacokinetics were not altered by hemodialysis and a very small percentage of the administered zileuton dose ( < 0 . 5 % ) was removed by hemodialysis .
Hence , dosing adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction or undergoing hemodialysis is not necessary .
Hepatic insufficiency : ZYFLO is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Two double - blind , parallel , placebo - controlled , multi - center studies have established the efficacy of ZYFLO in the treatment of asthma .
Three hundred seventy - three ( 373 ) patients were enrolled in the 6 - month , double - blind phase of Study 1 , and 401 patients were enrolled in the 3 - month double - blind phase of Study 2 .
In these studies , the patients were mild - to - moderate asthmatics who had a mean baseline FEV1 of approximately 2 . 3 liters and who used inhaled beta - agonists as needed , the mean being approximately 6 puffs of albuterol per day from a metered - dose inhaler .
In each study , patients were randomized to receive either ZYFLO 400 mg four times daily , ZYFLO 600 mg four times daily , or placebo .
Only the ZYFLO 600 mg four times daily dosage regimen was shown to be efficacious by demonstrating statistically significant improvement across several parameters .
Efficacy endpoints measured in Study 1 are shown in Table 1 below as mean change from baseline to the end of the study ( six months ) .
Statistically significant differences from placebo at the p < 0 . 05 level are indicated by an asterisk ( * ) .
Similar results were observed after three months in Study 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 shows the mean effect of ZYFLO versus placebo for the primary efficacy variable , trough FEV1 , over the course of Study 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Of all the patients in Study 1 and Study 2 , 7 . 0 % of those administered ZYFLO 600 mg four times daily required systemic corticosteroid therapy for exacerbation of asthma , whereas 18 . 7 % of the placebo group required corticosteroid treatment .
This difference was statistically significant .
In these trials , there was a statistically significant improvement from baseline in FEV1 , which occurred 2 hours after initial administration of ZYFLO .
This mean increase was approximately 0 . 10 L greater than that in placebo - treated patients .
These studies evaluated patients receiving as - needed inhaled beta - agonist as their only asthma therapy .
In this patient population , post - hoc analyses suggested that individuals with lower FEV1 values at baseline showed a greater improvement .
The role of ZYFLO in the management of patients with more severe asthma , patients receiving anti - asthma therapy other than as - needed , inhaled beta - agonists , or patients receiving it as an oral or inhaled corticosteroid - sparing agent remains to be fully characterized .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYFLO is indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and children 12 years of age and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ZYFLO tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • Active liver disease or transaminase elevations greater than or equal to three times the upper limit of normal ( ≥ 3 xULN ) ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic ) .
• Hypersensitivity to zileuton or any of its inactive ingredients .
WARNINGS ZYFLO is not indicated for use in the reversal of bronchospasm in acute asthma attacks , including status asthmaticus .
Therapy with ZYFLO can be continued during acute exacerbations of asthma .
Co - administration of ZYFLO and theophylline results in , on average , an approximate doubling of serum theophylline concentrations .
Theophylline dosage in these patients should be reduced and serum theophylline concentrations monitored closely ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Co - administration of ZYFLO and warfarin results in a clinically significant increase in prothrombin time ( PT ) .
Patients on oral warfarin therapy and ZYFLO should have their prothrombin times monitored closely and anticoagulant dose adjusted accordingly ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Co - administration of ZYFLO and propranolol results in doubling of propranolol AUC and consequent increased beta - blocker activity .
Patients on ZYFLO and propranolol should be closely monitored and the dose of the propranolol reduced as necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS Hepatic : Elevations of one or more liver function tests may occur during ZYFLO therapy .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , remain unchanged , or resolve with continued therapy .
In a few cases , initial transaminase elevations were first noted after discontinuing treatment , usually within 2 weeks .
The ALT ( SGPT ) test is considered the most sensitive indicator of liver injury .
In placebo - controlled clinical trials , the frequency of ALT elevations greater than or equal to three times the upper limit of normal ( 3 xULN ) was 1 . 9 % for ZYFLO - treated patients , compared with 0 . 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
In a long - term safety surveillance study , 2458 patients received ZYFLO in addition to their usual asthma care and 489 received their usual asthma care .
In patients treated for up to 12 months with ZYFLO in addition to their usual asthma care , 4 . 6 % developed an ALT of at least 3 xULN , compared with 1 . 1 % of patients receiving only their usual asthma care .
Sixty - one percent of these elevations occurred during the first two months of ZYFLO therapy .
After two months of treatment , the rate of new ALT elevations ≥ 3 xULN stabilized at a mean of 0 . 30 % per month for patients receiving ZYFLO - plus - usual - asthma care compared with 0 . 11 % per month for patients receiving usual asthma care alone .
Of the 61 ZYFLO plus - usual - asthma - care patients with ALT elevations between 3 to 5 xULN , 32 patients ( 52 % ) had ALT values decrease to below 2 xULN while continuing ZYFLO therapy .
Twenty - one of the 61 patients ( 34 % ) had further increases in ALT levels to ≥ 5 xULN and were withdrawn from the study in accordance with the study protocol .
In patients who discontinued ZYFLO , elevated ALT levels returned to < 2 xULN in an average of 32 days ( range 1 - 111 days ) .
In controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials involving more than 5000 patients treated with ZYFLO , the overall rate of ALT elevation ≥ 3 xULN was 3 . 2 % .
In these trials , one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice , which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy .
An additional 3 patients with transaminase elevations developed mild hyperbilirubinemia that was less than three times the upper limit of normal .
There was no evidence of hypersensitivity or other alternative etiologies for these findings .
In subset analyses , females over the age of 65 appeared to be at an increased risk for ALT elevations .
Patients with pre - existing transaminase elevations may also be at an increased risk for ALT elevations ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is recommended that hepatic transaminases be evaluated at initiation of , and during therapy with , ZYFLO .
Serum ALT should be monitored before treatment begins , once - a - month for the first 3 months , every two to three months for the remainder of the first year , and periodically thereafter for patients receiving long - term ZYFLO therapy .
If clinical signs and / or symptoms of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , right upper quadrant pain , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , or “ flu - like ” symptoms ) develop or transaminase elevations greater than 5 times the ULN occur , ZYFLO should be discontinued and transaminase levels followed until normal .
Since treatment with ZYFLO may result in increased hepatic transaminases , ZYFLO should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and / or have a past history of liver disease .
Neuropsychiatric Events : Neuropsychiatric events have been reported in adult and adolescent patients taking zileuton , the active ingredient in ZYFLO and zileuton extended - release tablets .
Post - marketing reports with zileuton include sleep disorders and behavior changes .
The clinical details of some post - marketing reports involving ZYFLO appear consistent with a drug - induced effect .
Patients and prescribers should be alert for neuropsychiatric events .
Patients should be instructed to notify their prescriber if these changes occur .
Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits of continuing treatment with ZYFLO if such events occur ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Post - marketing Experience ) .
Information for Patients : Patients should be told that : • ZYFLO is indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and should be taken regularly as prescribed , even during symptom - free periods .
• ZYFLO is not a bronchodilator and should not be used to treat acute episodes of asthma .
• When taking ZYFLO , they should not decrease the dose or stop taking any other antiasthma medications unless instructed by a physician .
• While using ZYFLO , medical attention should be sought if short - acting bronchodilators are needed more often than usual , or if more than the maximum number of inhalations of short - acting bronchodilator treatment prescribed for a 24 - hour period are needed .
• The most serious side effect of ZYFLO is elevation of liver enzyme tests and that , while taking ZYFLO , they must return for liver enzyme test monitoring on a regular basis .
• If they experience signs and / or symptoms of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , right upper quadrant pain , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , or “ flu - like ” symptoms ) , they should contact their physician immediately .
• Patients should be instructed to notify their healthcare provider if neuropsychiatric events occur while using ZYFLO .
• ZYFLO can interact with other drugs and that , while taking ZYFLO , they should consult their doctor before starting or stopping any prescription or non - prescription medicines .
A patient leaflet is included with the tablets .
Drug Interactions : In a drug - interaction study in 16 healthy volunteers , co - administration of multiple doses of zileuton ( 800 mg every 12 hours ) and theophylline ( 200 mg every 6 hours ) for 5 days resulted in a significant decrease ( approximately 50 % ) in steady - state clearance of theophylline , an approximate doubling of theophylline AUC , and an increase in theophylline Cmax ( by 73 % ) .
The elimination half - life of theophylline was increased by 24 % .
Also , during co - administration , theophylline - related adverse events were observed more frequently than after theophylline alone .
Upon initiation of ZYFLO in patients receiving theophylline , the theophylline dosage should be reduced by approximately one - half and plasma theophylline concentrations monitored .
Similarly , when initiating therapy with theophylline in a patient receiving ZYFLO , the maintenance dose and / or dosing interval of theophylline should be adjusted accordingly and guided by serum theophylline determinations ( see WARNINGS ) .
Concomitant administration of multiple doses of ZYFLO ( 600 mg every 6 hours ) and warfarin ( fixed daily dose obtained by titration in each subject ) to 30 healthy male volunteers resulted in a 15 % decrease in R - warfarin clearance and an increase in AUC of 22 % .
The pharmacokinetics of S - warfarin were not affected .
These pharmacokinetic changes were accompanied by a clinically significant increase in prothrombin times .
Monitoring of prothrombin time , or other suitable coagulation tests , with the appropriate dose titration of warfarin is recommended in patients receiving concomitant ZYFLO and warfarin therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
Co - administration of ZYFLO and propranolol results in a significant increase in propranolol concentrations .
Administration of a single 80 - mg dose of propranolol in 16 healthy male volunteers who received ZYFLO 600 mg every 6 hours for 5 days resulted in a 42 % decrease in propranolol clearance .
This resulted in an increase in propranolol Cmax , AUC , and elimination half - life by 52 % , 104 % , and 25 % , respectively .
There was an increase in β - blockade and decrease in heart rate associated with the co - administration of these drugs .
Patients on ZYFLO and propranolol should be closely monitored and the dose of propranolol reduced as necessary ( see WARNINGS ) .
No formal drug - drug interaction studies between ZYFLO and other beta - adrenergic blocking agents ( i . e . , β - blockers ) have been conducted .
It is reasonable to employ appropriate clinical monitoring when these drugs are co - administered with ZYFLO .
In a drug interaction study in 16 healthy volunteers , co - administration of multiple doses of terfenadine ( 60 mg every 12 hours ) and ZYFLO ( 600 mg every 6 hours ) for 7 days resulted in a decrease in clearance of terfenadine by 22 % leading to a statistically significant increase in mean AUC and Cmax of terfenadine of approximately 35 % .
This increase in terfenadine plasma concentration in the presence of ZYFLO was not associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval .
Although there was no cardiac effect in this small number of healthy volunteers , given the high inter - individual pharmacokinetic variability of terfenadine , co - administration of ZYFLO and terfenadine is not recommended .
Drug - drug interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteers between ZYFLO and prednisone and ethinyl estradiol ( oral contraceptive ) , drugs known to be metabolized by the P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) isoenzyme , have shown no significant interaction .
However , no formal drug - drug interaction studies between ZYFLO and dihydropyridine , calcium channel blockers , cyclosporine , cisapride , and astemizole , also metabolized by CYP3A4 , have been conducted .
It is reasonable to employ appropriate clinical monitoring when these drugs are co - administered with ZYFLO .
Drug - drug interaction studies in healthy volunteers have been conducted with ZYFLO and digoxin , phenytoin , sulfasalazine , and naproxen .
There was no significant interaction between ZYFLO and any of these drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In 2 - year carcinogenicity studies , increases in the incidence of liver , kidney , and vascular tumors in female mice and a trend towards an increase in the incidence of liver tumors in male mice were observed at 450 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 4 times [ females ] or 7 times [ males ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
No increase in the incidence of tumors was observed at 150 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 2 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
In rats , an increase in the incidence of kidney tumors was observed in both sexes at 170 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 6 times [ males ] or 14 times [ females ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
No increased incidence of kidney tumors was seen at 80 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 4 times [ males ] or 6 times [ females ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
Although a dose - related increased incidence of benign Leydig cell tumors was observed , Leydig cell tumorigenesis was prevented by supplementing male rats with testosterone .
Zileuton was negative in genotoxicity studies including bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) using S . typhimurium and E . coli , chromosome aberration in human lymphocytes , in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) , in rat hepatocytes with or without zileuton pretreatment and in mouse and rat kidney cells with zileuton pretreatment , and mouse micronucleus assays .
However , a dose - related increase in DNA adduct formation was reported in kidneys and livers of female mice treated with zileuton .
Although some evidence of DNA damage was observed in a UDS assay in hepatocytes isolated from Aroclor - 1254 treated rats , no such finding was noticed in hepatocytes isolated from monkeys , where the metabolic profile of zileuton is more similar to that of humans .
In reproductive performance / fertility studies , zileuton produced no effects on fertility in rats at oral doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 8 times [ male rats ] and 18 times [ female rats ] the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
Comparative systemic exposure ( AUC ) is based on measurements in male rats or nonpregnant female rats at similar dosages .
However , reduction in fetal implants was observed at oral doses of 150 mg / kg / day and higher ( providing approximately 9 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
Increases in gestation length , prolongation of estrous cycle , and increases in stillbirths were observed at oral doses of 70 mg / kg / day and higher ( providing approximately 4 times the systemic exposure ( AUC ) achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
In a perinatal / postnatal study in rats , reduced pup survival and growth were noted at an oral dose of 300 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 18 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Developmental studies indicated adverse effects ( reduced body weight and increased skeletal variations ) in rats at an oral dose of 300 mg / kg / day ( providing approximately 18 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
Comparative systemic exposure [ AUC ] is based on measurements in nonpregnant female rats at a similar dosage .
Zileuton and / or its metabolites cross the placental barrier of rats .
Three of 118 ( 2 . 5 % ) rabbit fetuses had cleft palates at an oral dose of 150 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the maximum recommended human daily oral dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ZYFLO should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Zileuton and / or its metabolites are excreted in rat milk .
It is not known if zileuton is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for ZYFLO in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of ZYFLO in pediatric patients under 12 years of age have not been established .
Due to the risk of hepatoxicity , use of ZYFLO in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Geriatric Use : In subset analyses , females over the age of 65 appeared to be at an increased risk for ALT elevations .
Zileuton pharmacokinetics were similar in healthy elderly subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) compared to healthy younger adults ( 18 to 40 years ) ( see PHARMACOKINETICS -- Special populations : Effect of age ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Studies : A total of 5542 patients have been exposed to zileuton in clinical trials , 2252 of them for greater than 6 months and 742 for greater than 1 year .
Adverse events most frequently occurring ( frequency ≥ 3 % ) in ZYFLO - treated patients and at a frequency greater than placebo - treated patients are summarized in Table 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Less common adverse events occurring at a frequency of greater than 1 % and more commonly in ZYFLO - treated patients included : arthralgia , chest pain , conjunctivitis , constipation , dizziness , fever , flatulence , hypertonia , insomnia , lymphadenopathy , malaise , neck pain / rigidity , nervousness , pruritus , somnolence , urinary tract infection , vaginitis , and vomiting .
The frequency of discontinuation from the asthma clinical studies due to any adverse event was comparable between ZYFLO ( 9 . 7 % ) and placebo - treated ( 8 . 4 % ) groups .
In placebo - controlled clinical trials , the frequency of ALT elevations ≥ 3 xULN was 1 . 9 % for ZYFLO - treated patients , compared with 0 . 2 % for placebo - treated patients .
In controlled and uncontrolled trials , one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice , which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy .
An additional 3 patients with transaminase elevations developed mild hyperbilirubinemia that was less than three times the upper limit of normal .
There was no evidence of hypersensitivity or other alternative etiologies for these findings .
ZYFLO is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease or transaminase elevations greater than or equal to 3 xULN ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is recommended that hepatic transaminases be evaluated at initiation of and during therapy with ZYFLO ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic ) .
Occurrences of low white blood cell count ( ≤ 2 . 8 x 109 / L ) were observed in 1 . 0 % of 1 , 678 patients taking ZYFLO and 0 . 6 % of 1 , 056 patients taking placebo in placebo - controlled studies .
These findings were transient and the majority of cases returned toward normal or baseline with continued ZYFLO dosing .
All remaining cases returned toward normal or baseline after discontinuation of ZYFLO .
Similar findings were also noted in a long - term safety surveillance study of 2458 patients treated with ZYFLO plus usual asthma care versus 489 patients treated only with usual asthma care for up to one year .
The clinical significance of these observations is not known .
In the long - term safety surveillance trial of ZYFLO plus usual asthma care versus usual asthma care alone , a similar adverse event profile was seen as in other clinical trials .
Post - Marketing Experience : Cases of sleep disorders and behavior changes have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS , Neuropsychiatric Events ) .
Rash and urticaria have been also reported with ZYFLO .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE Human experience of acute overdose with zileuton is limited .
A patient in a clinical trial took between 6 . 6 and 9 . 0 grams of zileuton in a single dose .
Vomiting was induced and the patient recovered without sequelae .
Zileuton is not removed by dialysis .
Should an overdose occur , the patient should be treated symptomatically and supportive measures instituted as required .
If indicated , elimination of unabsorbed drug should be achieved by emesis or gastric lavage ; usual precautions should be observed to maintain the airway .
A Certified Poison Control Center should be consulted for up - to - date information on management of overdose with ZYFLO .
The oral minimum lethal doses in mice and rats were 500 - 4000 and 300 - 1000 mg / kg in various preparations , respectively ( providing greater than 3 and 9 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose , respectively ) .
No deaths occurred , but nephritis was reported in dogs at an oral dose of 1000 mg / kg ( providing in excess of 12 times the systemic exposure [ AUC ] achieved at the maximum recommended human daily oral dose ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of ZYFLO for the symptomatic treatment of patients with asthma is one 600 - mg tablet four times a day for a total daily dose of 2400 mg .
For ease of administration , ZYFLO may be taken with meals and at bedtime .
Hepatic transaminases should be evaluated prior to initiation of ZYFLO and periodically during treatment ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic ) .
HOW SUPPLIED ZYFLO Tablets are available as 1 dosage strength : 600 - mg white to off white , ovaloid , film coated tablets debossed “ CT 1 ” on one side and bisect on the other side .
High - density polyethylene bottles of : 120 Tablets ..................................................................................... NDC 10122 - 901 - 12 Recommended storage : Store tablets at controlled room temperature between 20 ˚ - 25 ˚ C , ( 68 ˚ - 77 ˚ F ) .
See USP .
Protect from light .
CTZI - 003 - 0314 - 01 - SPL - 1 Manufactured for : Chiesi USA , Inc .
Cary , NC 27518 Patient Information Leaflet ZYFLO ® ( zileuton tablets ) Patient Information Leaflet ZYFLO ® Tablets Generic Name : zileuton Please read this leaflet carefully before you start taking ZYFLO ® tablets .
Also , read it each time you get your ZYFLO prescription refilled .
This leaflet provides important information about taking ZYFLO .
It is not meant to take the place of your doctor ’ s specific instructions .
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about ZYFLO .
Your doctor or pharmacist can also provide you with additional information about ZYFLO .
What is the most important information I should know about ZYFLO ?
The most important things to remember are to take all your doses of ZYFLO every day and to make sure that you return to your doctor ’ s office for scheduled liver enzyme tests .
You should also know that you should seek medical help immediately if you need more “ puffs ” of your bronchodilator inhaler than normal or if you use the maximum number of “ puffs ” prescribed for one 24 - hour period .
These could be a sign of worsening asthma which means that your asthma therapy may need to be changed .
What is ZYFLO ?
ZYFLO , which contains the active ingredient zileuton , blocks the formation of certain chemicals ( leukotrienes ) that may contribute to your asthma symptoms .
Who should not take ZYFLO ?
You should not take ZYFLO if you : • have active liver disease or have liver enzymes that are elevated .
• have ever had an allergic reaction to this medicine .
Your doctor will determine if it is safe for you to take ZYFLO .
What should I tell my doctor before I take the first dose of ZYFLO ?
You should tell your doctor if you : • have ever had liver disease , hepatitis , jaundice ( yellow eyes or skin ) , or dark urine .
• drink alcohol .
• are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicines .
Your doctor may adjust the doses of some of your other medicines while you are taking ZYFLO .
• if you are taking theophylline for your asthma , the blood - thinning medication warfarin , or the blood - pressure medication propranolol , your doctor may need to change the doses of these drugs .
• are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or are breast - feeding .
How should I take ZYFLO ?
• ZYFLO is taken four times a day with or without food .
It may be easier to remember to take ZYFLO if you make it part of your daily routine such as with meals and at bedtime .
• For ZYFLO to help control your asthma symptoms , it must be taken everyday as prescribed by your doctor .
ZYFLO WILL NOT relieve an asthma attack that has already started .
While taking ZYFLO , it is important to keep taking your other asthma medicines as directed and to follow all of your doctor ’ s instructions .
• Even if you have no asthma symptoms , do not decrease the dose of ZYFLO or stop taking the medicine without talking to your doctor first .
Feeling good is a sign that the medicine is working .
• When you take your dose of ZYFLO , the tablets may be swallowed whole or split in half to make them easier to swallow .
What should I avoid while taking ZYFLO ?
• Because ZYFLO may affect how other medications work , always talk to your doctor before you start or stop taking any medicines while taking ZYFLO .
This includes all prescription and nonprescription medicines .
• Never take a larger dose of ZYFLO or take it more often than your doctor has prescribed .
• It is also important for you to know that it may take several days or a few weeks to get the full benefit from ZYFLO and that you should not stop taking it if you do not feel better right away .
What are the possible side effects of ZYFLO ?
All medicines , including ZYFLO , cause side effects in some people .
Some of the most common side effects are abdominal pain , upset stomach , and nausea .
You should tell your doctor if you experience any new or unusual symptoms while taking ZYFLO .
One side effect that occurs in a small number of patients is an increased release of substances from the liver called “ enzymes . ”
Liver enzymes can be measured by a simple blood test .
It is important that your doctor makes sure that your liver enzymes do not become too high and that it is safe for you to continue taking ZYFLO .
To insure your safety , your doctor will do this blood test before you first start taking ZYFLO and repeat it on a regular basis while you are taking the medicine .
Usually , even if your liver enzymes are increased , you will not notice any symptoms .
However , some symptoms of increased liver enzymes are feeling more tired than normal , “ flu - like ” symptoms , itching , yellow skin , and / or yellow color in the whites of the eyes , or urine that is darker than normal .
Sleep problems and changes in your behavior can happen while you take ZYFLO .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any sleep problems or changes in behavior .
If you notice these or any other symptoms that you think may be caused by ZYFLO , call your doctor immediately .
Once the medicine is stopped , these symptoms usually go away .
Even if you do not have any of these symptoms , you should continue to see your doctor for regular check - ups and liver enzyme tests .
Where should I keep my supply of ZYLFO ?
Keep ZYFLO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
In case of an accidental overdose , call your doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
Protect ZYFLO from light and replace the child - resistant cap each time after use .
Store ZYFLO between 68 ◦ - 77 ◦ F ( 20 ◦ - 25 ◦ C ) .
If you would like more information about ZYFLO , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
If you have any questions or concerns about taking ZYFLO , discuss them with your doctor .
Revised : January 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
