1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MYCAPSSA is indicated for long - term maintenance treatment in acromegaly patients who have responded to and tolerated treatment with octreotide or lanreotide .
MYCAPSSA is a somatostatin analog indicated for long - term maintenance treatment in acromegaly patients who have responded to and tolerated treatment with octreotide or lanreotide ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take MYCAPSSA orally with a glass of water on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Initiate MYCAPSSA at a dosage of 40 mg daily , administered as 20 mg orally twice daily ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Monitor insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF - 1 ) levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms every two weeks during the dose titration or as indicated ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Titrate the MYCAPSSA dosage , based on IGF - 1 levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms .
Increase the dosage in increments of 20 mg ( 2 . 2 ) .
• The maximum recommended dosage is 80 mg daily ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Once the maintenance dosage of MYCAPSSA is achieved , monitor IGF - 1 levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms monthly or as indicated ( 2 . 2 ) .
• For patients with end - stage renal disease , initiate at a dosage of 20 mg orally once daily .
Titrate and adjust the maintenance dosage based on IGF - 1 levels , patient ' s signs and symptoms and tolerability ( 2 . 4 ) .
2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Take MYCAPSSA orally with a glass of water on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal .
• Swallow MYCAPSSA capsules whole .
Do not crush or chew the capsules .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage , Titration , and Monitoring • Initiate MYCAPSSA at a dosage of 40 mg daily , administered as 20 mg orally twice daily .
• Monitor insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF - 1 ) levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms every two weeks during the dose titration or as indicated .
• Titrate the MYCAPSSA dosage based on IGF - 1 levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms .
Increase the dosage in increments of 20 mg daily .
• For MYCAPSSA dosages of 60 mg daily , administer as 40 mg in the morning and 20 mg in the evening .
• For MYCAPSSA dosages of 80 mg daily , administer as 40 mg twice daily .
• The maximum recommended dosage of MYCAPSSA is 80 mg daily .
• Once the maintenance dosage of MYCAPSSA is achieved , monitor IGF - 1 levels and patient ' s signs and symptoms monthly or as indicated .
2 . 3 Dosage Interruptions and Modifications • If IGF - 1 levels remain above the upper normal limit after treatment with the maximum recommended dosage of 80 mg daily or the patient cannot tolerate treatment with MYCAPSSA , consider discontinuing MYCAPSSA and switching patient to another somatostatin analog .
• Withdraw MYCAPSSA therapy periodically to assess disease activity .
If IGF - 1 levels increase and signs and symptoms recur , resume MYCAPSSA therapy .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with End Stage Renal Disease For patients with end - stage renal disease , initiate MYCAPSSA at a dosage of 20 mg orally once daily .
Titrate and adjust the maintenance dosage of MYCAPSSA based on IGF - 1 levels , patient ' s signs and symptoms and tolerability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of Proton Pump Inhibitors , H2 - receptor Antagonists , or Antacids Patients taking proton pump inhibitors , H2 - receptor antagonists , or antacids concomitantly with MYCAPSSA may require increased dosages of MYCAPSSA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Delayed - release capsules : 20 mg .
White hard gelatin capsules imprinted with " OT " on one half of the capsule and " 20 " on the other half .
Each capsule contains 20 mg octreotide , provided as octreotide acetate .
Delayed - release capsules : 20 mg .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to octreotide or any of the components of MYCAPSSA .
Anaphylactoid reactions , including anaphylactic shock , have been reported in patients receiving octreotide [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to octreotide or any of the components of MYCAPSSA .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cholelithiasis and Complications of Cholelithiasis : Monitor periodically .
Discontinue if complications of cholelithiasis are suspected ( 5 . 1 ) .
Hypoglycemia or Hyperglycemia : Monitor glucose and adjust antidiabetic treatment as needed ( 5 . 2 ) .
Thyroid Function Abnormalities : Hypothyroidism may occur .
Assess thyroid function periodically ( 5 . 3 ) .
Cardiac Function : Bradycardia , arrhythmia , or conduction abnormalities may occur .
Drugs that have bradycardia effects may need dosage adjustments ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) .
Decreased Vitamin B12 Levels and Abnormal Schilling ' s Tests : Decreased vitamin B12 levels and abnormal Schilling ' s tests have been observed in some patients receiving octreotide .
Monitor vitamin B12 levels during treatment ( 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Cholelithiasis and Complications of Cholelithiasis MYCAPSSA may inhibit gallbladder contractility and decrease bile secretion , which may lead to gallbladder abnormalities or sludge .
Gallbladder - related adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials in patients receiving MYCAPSSA .
There have been postmarketing reports of cholelithiasis ( gallstones ) in patients taking somatostatin analogs resulting in complications , including cholecystitis , cholangitis , pancreatitis and requiring cholecystectomy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Monitor patients periodically .
If complications of cholelithiasis are suspected , discontinue MYCAPSSA and treat appropriately .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia and Hypoglycemia MYCAPSSA alters the balance between the counter - regulatory hormones , insulin , glucagon , and growth hormone , which may result in hypoglycemia , or hyperglycemia , or diabetes mellitus .
In clinical trials with MYCAPSSA , the following adverse reactions were reported : increased blood glucose ( 7 % ) , hypoglycemia ( 4 % ) , and diabetes mellitus ( 1 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Blood glucose levels should be monitored when MYCAPSSA treatment is initiated , or when the dose is altered .
Adjust antidiabetic treatment accordingly .
5 . 3 Thyroid Function Abnormalities MYCAPSSA suppresses the secretion of thyroid - stimulating hormone , which may result in hypothyroidism .
In clinical trials with MYCAPSSA , the following adverse reactions were reported : hypothyroidism ( 1 % ) , increased TSH ( 1 % ) , or decreased free T4 ( 1 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Assess thyroid function periodically during treatment with MYCAPSSA .
5 . 4 Cardiac Function Abnormalities Cardiac conduction abnormalities and other ECG changes including QT prolongation , axis shifts , early repolarization , low voltage , R / S transition , and early R wave progression , have occurred during treatment with octreotide .
In MYCAPSSA clinical trials the following adverse reactions were reported : bradycardia ( 2 % ) , conduction abnormalities ( 1 % ) , and arrhythmias / tachycardia ( 2 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
These ECG changes may occur in patients with acromegaly .
Dosage adjustments of concomitantly used drugs that have bradycardia effects ( i . e . beta - blockers ) may be necessary [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Decreased Vitamin B12 Levels and Abnormal Schilling ' s Tests MYCAPSSA may alter absorption of dietary fats in some patients .
Decreased vitamin B12 levels and abnormal Schilling ' s tests have been observed in some patients receiving octreotide .
Monitor vitamin B12 levels during treatment with MYCAPSSA .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Cholelithiasis and Complications of Cholelithiasis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hyperglycemia and Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Thyroid Function Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Cardiac Function Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Decreased Vitamin B12 Levels and Abnormal Schilling ' s Tests [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 10 % ) are nausea , diarrhea , headache , arthralgia , asthenia , hyperhidrosis , peripheral swelling , blood glucose increased , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , dyspepsia , sinusitis , osteoarthritis ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the medical information department at 1 - 855 - 303 - 2347 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
MYCAPSSA has been evaluated in patients with acromegaly in a placebo - controlled study [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] and an open - label baseline - controlled study .
The data reflect exposure of 183 patients to MYCAPSSA for a mean duration of 29 weeks .
In the overall study population , 56 % were female and the average age of patients was 54 . 3 years .
Adverse reactions occurring ≥ 5 % and greater than placebo for the placebo - controlled study are presented in Table 1 and adverse reactions occurring ≥ 5 % in the open - label study are presented in Table 2 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring ≥ 5 % and Greater than Placebo in a Placebo - Controlled Study with MYCAPSSA in Acromegaly Patients MYCAPSSA % ( N = 28 ) PLACEBO % ( N = 28 ) Diarrhea 29 21 Nausea 21 11 Blood glucose increased [ 1 ] 14 7 Vomiting 14 0 Abdominal discomfort 14 11 Dyspepsia 11 4 Sinusitis 11 0 Osteoarthritis 11 0 Urinary tract infection 7 4 Pain 7 0 Large intestine polyp 7 0 Cholelithiasis 7 4 [ 1 ] Includes blood glucose increased , hyperglycemia and glycosylated hemoglobin increased Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring ≥ 5 % in an Open - Label Study with MYCAPSSA in Acromegaly Patients MYCAPSSA % ( N = 155 ) Headache 33 Nausea 30 Arthralgia 26 Asthenia 22 Hyperhidrosis 21 Diarrhea 18 Peripheral swelling 16 Dyspepsia 8 Abdominal pain upper 8 Abdominal distension 7 Nasopharyngitis 7 Influenza 7 Blood glucose increased [ 1 ] 6 Vomiting 6 Flatulence 6 Back pain 6 Abdominal pain 5 Dizziness 5 Fatigue 5 Upper respiratory tract infection 5 Hypertension 5 [ 1 ] Includes blood glucose increased , hyperglycemia and impaired fasting glucose Other Adverse Reactions Gallbladder Abnormalities In the placebo - controlled study , in patients treated with MYCAPSSA , acute cholecystitis occurred in 4 % of patients .
In the open - label study , cholelithiasis occurred in 4 . 5 % of patients and bile duct obstruction , bile duct stone , acute cholecystitis and jaundice occurred in 1 % of patients each .
Hypoglycemia / Hyperglycemia In the placebo - controlled study , 18 % of patients treated with MYCAPSSA and 4 % of patients treated with placebo developed at least one glucose value above the upper normal limit .
All patients with abnormal glucose values were asymptomatic .
Asymptomatic hypoglycemia was reported in 4 % of patients .
In the open - label study 16 % of patients developed a glucose value above the upper limit of normal .
Asymptomatic hypoglycemia was reported in 4 % and symptomatic hypoglycemia was reported in 1 % of patients .
Diabetes was reported in 1 % of patients .
Hypothyroidism In the open - label study , hypothyroidism , increased TSH , or decreased free T4 were reported in 1 % of patients .
Cardiac In the open - label study , bradycardia was reported in 2 % , conduction abnormalities in 1 % , and arrhythmias / tachycardia in 2 % of patients .
Gastrointestinal Gastrointestinal symptoms were the most commonly reported adverse reactions with MYCAPSSA .
In the placebo - controlled study , gastrointestinal adverse reactions were reported in 68 % of patients treated with MYCAPSSA .
These adverse reactions were diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , dyspepsia , large intestinal polyp , abdominal pain , constipation , and flatulence .
The adverse reactions were mild to moderate , occurred mostly during the initial 3 months of treatment , and resolved on treatment within a median duration of 8 days .
In the open - label study , gastrointestinal adverse reactions were reported in 57 % of patients .
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients were nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , abdominal distention , vomiting , flatulence , constipation , gastroesophageal reflux disease , abdominal discomfort , frequent bowel movement , gastritis , hemorrhoids , dry mouth , and gastrointestinal motility disorder .
Large intestinal polyp was reported in 1 patient .
The adverse reactions were mostly mild to moderate , occurred during the initial 2 months of treatment , and resolved on treatment within a median of 13 days .
Ten patients discontinued treatment due to gastrointestinal adverse reactions .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic peptides , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other octreotide acetate products may be misleading .
No antibodies to the octreotide peptide from MYCAPSSA were detected in 149 patients assessed in the open label study throughout 13 months of treatment .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post - approval use of octreotide acetate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Blood and lymphatic : pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia • Cardiac : myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest , atrial fibrillation • Ear and labyrinth : deafness • Endocrine : diabetes insipidus , adrenal insufficiency in patients 18 months of age and under , pituitary apoplexy • Eye : glaucoma , visual field defect , scotoma , retinal vein thrombosis • Gastrointestinal : intestinal obstruction , peptic / gastric ulcer , abdomen enlarged • General and administration site : generalized edema , facial edema • Hepatobiliary : gallbladder polyp , fatty liver , hepatitis • Immune : anaphylactoid reactions including anaphylactic shock • Infections and infestations : appendicitis • Laboratory abnormalities : increased liver enzymes , CK increased , creatinine increased • Metabolism and nutrition : diabetes mellitus • Musculoskeletal : arthritis , joint effusion , Raynaud ' s syndrome • Nervous System : convulsions , aneurysm , intracranial hemorrhage , hemiparesis , paresis , suicide attempt , paranoia , migraines , Bell ' s palsy , aphasia • Renal and urinary : renal failure , renal insufficiency • Reproductive and breast : gynecomastia , galactorrhea , libido decrease , breast carcinoma • Respiratory : status asthmaticus , pulmonary hypertension , pulmonary nodule , pneumothorax aggravated • Skin and subcutaneous tissue : urticaria , cellulitis , petechiae • Vascular : orthostatic hypotension , hematuria , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , arterial thrombosis of the arm 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Proton Pump Inhibitors , H2 - receptor Antagonists , or Antacids : may decrease bioavailability of MYCAPSSA and the MYCAPSSA dose may need to be increased ( 7 ) .
• Cyclosporine : may have decreased bioavailability and require dose adjustment ( 7 ) .
• Insulin and Antidiabetic Drugs : patients receiving insulin or antidiabetic drugs agents may require dose adjustment ( 7 ) .
• Digoxin : exposure may be decreased and assessment of clinical response to digoxin should be performed ( 7 ) .
• Lisinopril : bioavailability may be increased , monitor patient ' s blood pressure and adjust dose of lisinopril if needed ( 7 ) .
• Levonorgestrel : counsel women to use an alternative non - hormonal method of contraception or a back - up method when MYCAPSSA is used with combined oral contraceptives ( 7 ) .
• Bromocriptine : dose adjustment of bromocriptine may be necessary ( 7 ) .
• Beta Blocker and Calcium Channel Blockers : dose adjustment of beta blockers or calcium channel blockers may be necessary ( 7 ) .
• Drugs Metabolized by CYP 450 Enzymes : concomitant use with other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 that have a narrow therapeutic index ( e . g . , quinidine ) should be used with caution and increased monitoring may be required ( 7 ) .
7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on MYCAPSSA Proton Pump Inhibitors , H2 - receptor Antagonists , or Antacids Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with esomeprazole resulted in a decrease in the bioavailability for MYCAPSSA [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs that alter the pH of the upper GI tract ( e . g . , other proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) , H2 - receptor antagonists , and antacids ) may alter the absorption of MYCAPSSA and lead to a reduction in bioavailability .
Intervention : Co - administration of MYCAPSSA with PPIs , H2 - blockers , or antacids may require increased doses of MYCAPSSA .
7 . 2 Effects of MYCAPSSA on Other Drugs Cyclosporine Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with cyclosporine resulted in a decrease in cyclosporine bioavailability [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Adjustment of cyclosporine dose to maintain therapeutic levels may be necessitated .
Insulin and Antidiabetic Drugs Clinical Impact : MYCAPSSA inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon .
Intervention : Monitor blood glucose levels in diabetic patients upon MYCAPSSA initiation and subsequent dose adjustment .
Patients receiving insulin or antidiabetic drugs agents may require dose adjustment of these therapeutic agents .
Digoxin Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with digoxin resulted in a decrease in digoxin peak exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Digoxin has a narrow therapeutic ratio and careful assessment of clinical response should be performed when digoxin is concomitantly administered with MYCAPSSA .
Lisinopril Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA increases lisinopril bioavailability [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor patient ' s blood pressure and adjust the dosage of lisinopril if needed .
Levonorgestrel Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with levonorgestrel decreases levonorgestrel bioavailability [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Decreased bioavailability may potentially diminish the effectiveness of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel women to use an alternative non - hormonal method of contraception or a back - up method when MYCAPSSA is used with COCs .
Bromocriptine Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of MYCAPSSA with bromocriptine may increase the systemic exposure of bromocriptine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Dose adjustment of bromocriptine may be necessary .
Beta Blocker and Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact : MYCAPSSA may cause bradycardia in acromegaly patients .
Intervention : Patients receiving beta blockers or calcium channel blockers may require dose adjustments of these therapeutic agents .
Drugs Metabolized by CYP 450 Enzymes Clinical Impact : Limited published data indicate that somatostatin analogs including MYCAPSSA may decrease the metabolic clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes , which may be due to the suppression of GH .
Intervention : Concomitant use with other drugs mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 that have a narrow therapeutic index ( e . g . , quinidine ) should be used with caution and increased monitoring may be required .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy ( 8 . 3 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from case reports with octreotide acetate use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with MYCAPSSA .
No adverse developmental effects were observed with intravenous administration of octreotide to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses 7 and 13 times , respectively , the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area .
Transient growth retardation , with no impact on postnatal development , was observed in rat offspring from a pre - and post - natal study of octreotide at intravenous doses below the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received intravenous doses of octreotide up to 1 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
A slight reduction in body weight gain was noted in pregnant rats at 0 . 1 and 1 mg / kg / day .
There were no maternal effects in rabbits or embryo - fetal effects in either species up to the maximum dose tested .
At 1 mg / kg / day in rats and rabbits , the dose multiple was approximately 7 and 13 times , respectively , the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area .
In a pre - and post - natal development rat study at intravenous doses of 0 . 02 - 1 mg / kg / day , a transient growth retardation of the offspring was observed at all doses which was possibly a consequence of growth hormone inhibition by octreotide .
The doses attributed to the delayed growth are below the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of octreotide in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Studies show that octreotide administered subcutaneously passes into the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for MYCAPSSA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from MYCAPSSA or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Following a subcutaneous dose ( 1 mg / kg ) of octreotide to lactating rats , transfer of octreotide into milk was observed at a low concentration compared to plasma ( milk / plasma ratio of 0 . 009 ) .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as the therapeutic benefits of a reduction in GH levels and normalization of IGF - 1 concentration in acromegalic females treated with octreotide may lead to improved fertility .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of MYCAPSSA in pediatric patients have not been established .
In post - marketing reports , serious adverse reactions , including hypoxia , necrotizing enterocolitis , and death , have been reported with octreotide injection use in pediatric patients , most notably in children under 2 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of octreotide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In MYCAPSSA clinical studies , 39 patients ( 21 % ) were age 65 years or over and 1 patient was age 75 years or over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment there is no dose adjustment recommended for MYCAPSSA .
There is a significant increase in octreotide exposure in patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) .
Start patients with ESRD on MYCAPSSA 20 mg orally daily .
Adjust the maintenance dose thereafter based on IGF - 1 levels , patient ' s signs and symptoms , and tolerability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with liver cirrhosis and patients with fatty liver disease showed prolonged elimination of octreotide following subcutaneous administration of drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE A limited number of accidental overdoses of injectable octreotide acetate in adults has been reported .
The doses ranged from 2 . 4 mg / day to 6 mg / day administered by continuous infusion or subcutaneously 1 . 5 mg three times a day .
Adverse reactions in some patients included arrhythmia , hypotension , cardiac arrest , brain hypoxia , pancreatitis , hepatic steatosis , hepatomegaly , lactic acidosis , flushing , diarrhea , lethargy , weakness , and weight loss .
If overdose occurs , contact Poison Control ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for latest recommendations .
11 DESCRIPTION MYCAPSSA delayed release capsules contain octreotide acetate , a somatostatin analog .
Octreotide is known chemically as L - cysteinamide , D - phenylalanyl - L - cysteinyl - L - phenylalanyl - D - tryptophyl - L - lysyl - L - threonyl - N - [ 2 - hydroxy - 1 - ( hydroxy - methyl ) propyl ] - , cyclic ( 2 → 7 ) - disulfide ; [ R - ( R * , R * ) ] .
The molecular weight of octreotide is 1019 . 3 ( free peptide , C49H66N10O10S2 ) and its amino acid sequence is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MYCAPSSA ( octreotide ) delayed - release capsules are enteric - coated capsules for oral use .
Each capsule contains 20 mg of octreotide ( provided as octreotide acetate ) .
Octreotide is present as a salt with 1 . 4 to 2 . 5 molar equivalents of acetate .
The capsules contain the following inactive ingredients : polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP - 12 ) , sodium caprylate , magnesium chloride , polysorbate 80 , glyceryl monocaprylate , glyceryl tricaprylate , gelatin , gelatin capsules , and Acryl - EZE ® ( methacrylate ) .
The capsule is printed with " OT 20 " in Opacode ® black ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Octreotide exerts pharmacologic actions similar to the natural hormone somatostatin , but is a more potent inhibitor of GH , glucagon , and insulin than somatostatin .
Like somatostatin , it also suppresses luteinizing hormone ( LH ) response to gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) , decreases splanchnic blood flow , and inhibits release of serotonin , gastrin , vasoactive intestinal peptide , secretin , motilin , and pancreatic polypeptide .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a single - dose PK study conducted in healthy volunteers , inhibition of GH ( as measured by Cavg ) was observed in all subjects receiving MYCAPSSA , as compared to their GH levels prior to MYCAPSSA .
In a study designed to assess the duration of MYCAPSSA - induced increased intestinal permeability , an increase in paracellular permeability was observed 2 hours after MYCAPSSA administration and returned to baseline by 5 . 5 hours after MYCAPSSA administration .
MYCAPSSA - induced permeability is completely reversible within this timeframe .
MYCAPSSA maintained GH and IGF - 1 levels in patients with acromegaly .
Single doses of octreotide acetate given subcutaneously have been shown to inhibit gallbladder contractility and to decrease bile secretion in normal volunteers .
In clinical trials the incidence of gallstone or biliary sludge formation was markedly increased [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Octreotide acetate may cause clinically significant suppression of TSH [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In healthy subjects , similar systemic exposure ( AUC ) was observed between a single dose oral administration of MYCAPSSA ( 20 mg octreotide acetate ) , and a single dose of subcutaneous Sandostatin IR ( 0 . 1 mg octreotide acetate ) .
Peak octreotide levels ( Cmax ) were 33 % lower following oral administration compared to the subcutaneous route .
Absorption time was longer following oral administration compared to the subcutaneous route ; peak concentrations were reached at a median of 1 . 67 – 2 . 5 hours after 20 mg MYCAPSSA administration compared to 0 . 5 hours for the subcutaneous administration .
In healthy subjects , after single - dose oral administration of MYCAPSSA , the systemic exposure of octreotide ( Cmax , AUC0 - 24 , and AUC0 - inf ) increased dose - proportionally at doses ranging from 3 – 40 mg .
In patients with acromegaly , there was a dose - related increase in the mean plasma octreotide concentrations after chronic administration of MYCAPSSA 40 mg ( 20 mg bid ) , 60 mg ( 40 mg AM / 20 mg PM ) , and 80 mg ( 40 mg AM / 40 mg PM ) bid .
Mean peak concentrations ( Cmax ) following chronic dosing were lower in patients with acromegaly ( mean [ CV % ] = 2 . 51 ng / mL [ 80 % ] and 5 . 30 ng / mL [ 76 % ] at 20 and 40 mg bid , respectively ) compared to single - dose peak concentrations observed in healthy subjects at the same dose ( mean [ CV % ] = 3 . 62 [ 53 % ] and 8 . 21 ng / mL [ 88 % ] at 20 and 40 mg , respectively ) .
Effect of Food on Oral Absorption In healthy subjects , data from a single - dose , crossover PK study of food effect demonstrated that administration of MYCAPSSA 20 mg capsules with food led to an approximate 90 % decrease in the rate ( Cmax ) and extent of absorption ( AUC0 - t ) .
Distribution In healthy volunteers , the distribution half - life ( tα ½ ) of octreotide acetate from plasma after subcutaneous administration was 0 . 2 h , the volume of distribution ( Vdss ) was estimated to be 13 . 6 L , and the total body clearance ranged from 7 – 10 L / hr .
In blood , the distribution into the erythrocytes was found to be negligible and about 65 % was bound in the plasma in a concentration - independent manner .
Binding was mainly to lipoprotein and , to a lesser extent , to albumin .
In patients with acromegaly , the Vdss following subcutaneous administration was increased compared to healthy volunteers , estimated to be 21 . 6 L ; mean peak concentrations were lower in acromegaly patients compared to healthy volunteers ( 2 . 8 ng / mL vs 5 . 2 ng / mL , respectively after 0 . 1 ng / mL dose ) .
Elimination According to data obtained with the immediate - release octreotide subcutaneous injection , approximately 32 % of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In healthy subjects , there was no effect of route of administration on octreotide elimination , and comparable mean elimination half - lives ( t ½ ) of 2 . 3 hours and 2 . 7 hours were demonstrated between subcutaneous injection and oral octreotide treatments , respectively .
In patients with acromegaly , elimination after chronic dosing was slightly slower than that seen in healthy volunteers , with mean apparent half - life values at steady state ranging from 3 . 2 – 4 . 5 hours across doses ( 20 mg , 40 mg , 60 mg , and 80 mg ) .
Elimination is complete approximately 48 hours after the last dose in patients who have achieved steady - state plasma levels .
Minimal accumulation ( approximately 10 % ) was observed in patients after repeat administration of MYCAPSSA .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients In patients 65 years of age and older , after subcutaneous administration of octreotide acetate , the half - life of octreotide increased significantly ( 46 % ) and clearance of octreotide decreased significantly ( 26 % ) .
Patients with Renal Impairment Exposure in patients with severe renal impairment was not substantially different from that of the matched controls .
Following oral administration of a single dose of 20 mg MYCAPSSA to patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and patients with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring dialysis , patients with ESRD on dialysis had a 46 % decrease in clearance with a corresponding 87 % increase in AUC and 85 % increase in t ½ compared to matched healthy subjects .
ESRD patients had higher mean plasma concentrations than did those with severe renal impairment with higher mean values for Cmax ( 9 . 30 ng / mL compared to 6 . 13 ng / mL in the matched controls ) , AUC0 – t ( 68 . 0 h ∙ ng / mL compared to 32 . 2 h ∙ ng / mL in the matched controls ) , AUCinf ( 69 . 5 h ∙ ng / mL compared to 32 . 4 h ∙ ng / mL in the matched controls ) , and t ½ ( 7 . 09 hr compared to 3 . 84 hr in the matched controls ) , consistent with the known effect of renal impairment on octreotide exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with liver cirrhosis , after subcutaneous administration of octreotide acetate , prolonged elimination of drug was observed , with octreotide acetate t ½ increasing from 1 . 9 – 3 . 7 hr and total body clearance decreasing from 7 – 10 L / hr to 5 . 9 L / hr , whereas patients with fatty liver disease showed t ½ increased to 3 . 4 hr and total body clearance of 8 . 2 L / hr .
Drug Interactions Limited published data indicate that somatostatin analogs including MYCAPSSA may decrease the metabolic clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes , which may be due to the suppression of GH [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Octreotide has been associated with alterations in nutrient absorption , so it may have an effect on absorption of orally administered drugs .
Table 3 Effect of Co - administered Drugs on MYCAPSSA Systemic ExposureCo - administered drug and dosing regimen MYCAPSSA Dose ( mg ) Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without co - administered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 0 Change in AUC Change in Cmax Esomeprazole 40 mg QD on days 2 - 7 20 mg on Day 1 and 20 mg on Day 7 0 . 591 ( 0 . 40 – 0 . 88 ) 2 0 . 551 ( 0 . 40 – 0 . 75 ) 2 Metoclopramide 20 mg 40 mg 0 . 91 ( 0 . 61 – 1 . 35 ) 0 . 95 ( 0 . 62 – 1 . 44 ) Loperamide 4 mg 40 mg 0 . 97 ( 0 . 65 – 1 . 44 ) 2 0 . 91 ( 0 . 59 – 1 . 39 ) 2 1 Clinically significant [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] 2 Mean ratio with 90 % CI ( with / without co - administered drug , e . g . , 1 = no change , 0 . 6 = 40 % decrease , 1 . 3 = 1 . 3 - fold increase in exposure ) Table 4 Effect of MYCAPSSA on Systemic Exposure of Co - administered DrugsCo - administered drug and dosing regimen MYCAPSSA Dose ( mg ) 1 Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without co - administered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 0 Change in AUC Change in Cmax Cyclosporine 300 mg 20 mg 0 . 382 ( 0 . 31 – 0 . 46 ) 3 0 . 292 ( 0 . 22 – 0 . 37 ) 3 Digoxin 0 . 5 mg 40 mg 1 . 0 ( 0 . 94 – 1 . 13 ) 3 0 . 632 ( 0 . 55 – 0 . 72 ) 3 Lisinopril 20 mg 40 mg 1 . 402 ( 1 . 21 – 1 . 61 ) 3 1 . 502 ( 1 . 32 – 1 . 71 ) 3 Ethinyl Estradiol 0 . 06 mg 40 mg 0 . 94 ( 0 . 86 – 1 . 03 ) 3 0 . 92 ( 0 . 83 – 1 . 01 ) 3 Levonorgestrel 0 . 3 mg 40 mg 0 . 762 ( 0 . 67 – 0 . 86 ) 3 0 . 622 ( 0 . 54 – 0 . 71 ) 3 1 Single dose 2 Clinically significant [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] 3 Mean ratio with 90 % CI ( with / without co - administered drug , e . g . , 1 = no change , 0 . 6 = 40 % decrease , 1 . 5 = 1 . 5 - fold increase in exposure ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in laboratory animals have demonstrated no mutagenic potential of octreotide acetate .
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with MYCAPSSA .
No carcinogenic potential was demonstrated in mice treated subcutaneously with octreotide acetate for 85 – 99 weeks at doses up to 2000 mcg / kg / day ( 8 times the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area ) .
In a 116 - week subcutaneous study in rats administered octreotide acetate , a 27 % and 12 % incidence of injection - site sarcomas or squamous cell carcinomas was observed in males and females , respectively , at the highest dose level of 1250 mcg / kg / day ( 10 times the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area ) compared to an incidence of 8 % to 10 % in the vehicle - control groups .
The increased incidence of injection - site tumors was most probably caused by irritation and the high sensitivity of the rat to repeated subcutaneous injections at the same site .
There was also a 15 % incidence of uterine adenocarcinomas in the 1250 mcg / kg / day females compared to 7 % in the saline - control females and 0 % in the vehicle - control females .
The presence of endometritis coupled with the absence of corpora lutea , the reduction in mammary fibroadenomas , and the presence of uterine dilatation suggest that the uterine tumors were associated with estrogen dominance in the aged female rats , which does not occur in humans .
No fertility studies in animals have been conducted with MYCAPSSA .
Injectable octreotide acetate did not impair fertility in rats at doses up to 1000 mcg / kg / day , which represents 7 times the clinical dose based on octreotide injection body surface area .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of MYCAPSSA was established in a 9 month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( NCT03252353 ) that enrolled 56 patients with acromegaly .
In the overall study population , 54 % were female and the average age of patients was 55 years .
91 % of patients were Caucasian , 5 % Asian , 2 % Black , and 2 % Other .
The percentage of patients with previous pituitary surgery was 88 % .
The baseline IGF - 1 levels ( the average of 2 assessments measured within 2 weeks of randomization ) was 0 . 80 times ULN ( range : 0 . 5 – 1 . 1 times ULN ) in the patients treated with MYCAPSSA and 0 . 84 times ULN ( range : 0 . 3 – 1 . 1 times ULN ) in patients treated with the placebo .
In this study , patients initiated MYCAPSSA treatment twice daily 1 month after their last injection of somatostatin analogs .
The starting dose was 40 mg ( 20 mg in the morning and 20 mg in the evening ) .
Dose increase was allowed during dose titration to 60 mg ( 40 mg in the morning and 20 mg in the evening ) and to a maximal dose of 80 mg daily ( 40 mg in the morning and 40 mg in the evening ) until patients were deemed adequately controlled based on biochemical results and / or clinical judgement .
Patients then maintained their target dose until end of treatment .
The primary efficacy endpoint was somatostatin dose - adjusted proportion of patients who maintain their biochemical response , defined as an IGF - 1 levels less than or equal to the ULN at the end of 9 months of treatment .
58 % of patients treated with MYCAPSSA vs . 19 % of patients treated with placebo maintained their biochemical response .
25 % of patients treated with MYCAPSSA required discontinuation of MYCAPSSA and treatment with other somatostatin analogs at some point during the 9 - month study .
Criteria for somatostatin analog rescue were IGF - 1 levels ≥ 1 . 3 times ULN and exacerbation of acromegaly signs and symptoms on two consecutive assessments while treated for at least 2 weeks with 80 mg / day or other reasons such as adverse reactions or patient ' s decision .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING MYCAPSSA delayed - release 20 mg capsules are white hard gelatin capsules imprinted with " OT " on one half of the capsule and " 20 " on the other half .
The capsules are supplied as : NDC Number Package Size 69880 - 120 - 28 Wallet of 28 capsules Storage Until first use , store unopened wallets of MYCAPSSA refrigerated at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
After first use , opened wallets may be stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) for up to 1 month .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Cholelithiasis and Complications of Cholelithiasis Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience signs or symptoms of gallstones ( cholelithiasis ) or complications of cholelithiasis ( e . g . , cholecystitis , cholangitis and pancreatitis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia and Hyperglycemia Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they have problems with blood sugar levels , either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Thyroid Function Abnormalities Inform patients that their thyroid function will be assessed periodically during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiac Function Abnormalities Inform patients to contact the health care provider in case they notice irregular heartbeat [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Decreased Vitamin B12 Levels and Abnormal Schilling ' s Tests Inform patients that Vitamin B12 levels may be monitored during the treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Inform female patients that treatment with MYCAPSSA may result in unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Rx ONLY Manufactured by MW Encap Ltd . , Scotland , UK .
© 2022 Amryt Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Mycapssa is a registered trademark of the Amryt Pharma Group .
All rights reserved Revised : 03 / 2022 Patient Information MYCAPSSA ® [ my ( as in sky ) - cap - sah ] ( octreotide ) delayed - release capsules , for oral use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 06 / 2020 What is MYCAPSSA ?
• MYCAPSSA is an oral prescription medicine used in the long - term maintenance treatment of acromegaly in people for whom initial treatment with octreotide or lanreotide has been effective and tolerated .
• It is not known if MYCAPSSA is safe and effective in children .
Do not take MYCAPSSA if you : • are allergic to octreotide acetate or any of the ingredients in MYCAPSSA .
MYCAPSSA can cause a serious allergic reaction including anaphylactic shock .
Stop taking MYCAPSSA right away and get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • swelling of your tongue , throat , lips , eyes or face • severe itching of the skin with rash or raised bumps • chest pain • trouble swallowing or breathing • feeling faint • rapid heart beat See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in MYCAPSSA .
Before you take MYCAPSSA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver cirrhosis or liver problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if MYCAPSSA will harm your unborn baby .
MYCAPSSA may increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if MYCAPSSA passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take MYCAPSSA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
MYCAPSSA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how MYCAPSSA works .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take oral contraceptives .
Use an alternative non - hormonal method of contraception or a back - up method while taking MYCAPSSA .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take MYCAPSSA ?
• Read the detailed " Instructions for Use " at the end of this Patient Information about the right way to take MYCAPSSA .
• Take MYCAPSSA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take MYCAPSSA with a glass of water on an empty stomach .
• Take MYCAPSSA at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal ( for example , you could take your morning dose 1 hour before breakfast and your evening dose at bedtime ) .
Swallow the capsules whole .
Do not crush or chew the capsules before swallowing .
What are the possible side effects of MYCAPSSA ?
• gallbladder problems .
MYCAPSSA may cause problems with the gallbladder .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have sudden pain in your upper right stomach ( abdomen ) , sudden pain in your right shoulder or between your shoulder blades , yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes , fever with chills , nausea • blood sugar problems .
MYCAPSSA may cause you to have high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , or diabetes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have problems with high or low blood sugar .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood sugar when you start taking MYCAPSSA or when your dose is changed .
• thyroid problems .
MYCAPSSA may keep your thyroid from releasing thyroid hormones leading to hypothyroidism .
Your thyroid function will be checked regularly during your treatment with MYCAPSSA .
• heart rhythm problems .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have an irregular heartbeat ( your heart is not beating normally ) .
• low vitamin B12 levels in your blood .
Your healthcare provider may check your vitamin B12 levels during treatment with MYCAPSSA .
The most common side effects of MYCAPSSA include : • headache • nausea • diarrhea • joint pain • weakness • sweating a lot These are not all the possible side effects of MYCAPSSA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store MYCAPSSA ?
• Before first use , store unopened wallets of MYCAPSSA in a refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
• After first use , store opened wallets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) for up to 1 month .
Keep MYCAPSSA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of MYCAPSSA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information .
Do not use MYCAPSSA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give MYCAPSSA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about MYCAPSSA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in MYCAPSSA ?
Active ingredient : octreotide acetate Inactive ingredients : polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP - 12 ) , sodium caprylate , magnesium chloride , polysorbate 80 , glyceryl monocaprylate , glyceryl tricaprylate , gelatin , gelatin capsules , and Acryl - EZE ® ( methacrylate ) .
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC .
Dublin , Ireland For more information about MYCAPSSA call the medical information department at 1 - 855 - 303 - 2347 or medinfo @ amrytpharma . com or go to www . MYCAPSSA . com and select patient information .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE MYCAPSSA ® [ my ( as in sky ) - cap - sah ] ( octreotide ) delayed - release capsules , for oral use Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking MYCAPSSA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to use MYCAPSSA .
Important information : • Each MYCAPSSA wallet contains twenty - eight 20 - mg capsules .
The number of wallets required in a 28 - day period depends on your prescribed dose .
How to Use the MYCAPSSA Wallet • Each MYCAPSSA wallet has a locking mechanism that helps to keep the medicine away from children .
• Become familiar with using the MYCAPSSA wallet so you will know how to use it the right way .
To open the wallet : Step 1 .
With your left thumb , gently press the tip of the release button on the left side of the wallet ( see Figure A ) .
Step 2 .
While holding the release button , grasp the medicine card at the notch on the right side and pull it out ( see Figure A ) .
Step 3 .
Unfold the medicine card ( see Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A : How to Open the MYCAPSSA Wallet How to Remove a Capsule from the MYCAPSSA Wallet Capsules need to be removed carefully , because if they are cracked or broken they may not be as effective .
Follow these instructions to easily remove capsules without damaging them .
• Place the tip of a thumb at the edge of a capsule ' s plastic cavity ( see Figure B ) .
• Gently push the capsule until it is removed .
Collect the removed capsule in your hand .
• Do not use two thumbs to push a capsule as this could damage it .
• Do not press the middle of a capsule .
This could also damage it .
• If a capsule is cracked or broken , throw it away ( discard it ) and remove another capsule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B : How to Remove a Capsule from the Medicine Card Inside the MYCAPSSA Wallet This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 06 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Blister Pack Always take with a glass of water on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal .
Mycapssa ® ( octreotide ) delayed - release capsules 20 mg * 2 28 Capsules * Each capsule contains octreotide 20 mg ( provided as octreotide acetate ) .
Acetate composition varies .
See prescribing information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Blister Pack Dose Pack NDC 69880 - 120 - 28 Mycapssa ® ( octreotide ) delayed - release capsules 20 mg * Rx only * Each capsule contains octreotide 20 mg ( provided as octreotide acetate ) .
Acetate composition varies .
See prescribing information .
Keep out of reach of children .
1 PRESS & HOLD HERE PULL OUT HERE ❶ PRESS ❷ PULL OPENING AND CLOSING INSTRUCTIONS • Use left thumb to push the button gently • While holding the button down , pull out the medication card • Press out to take capsule ( s ) • Slide medication card back to lock 28 capsules Always take with a glass of water on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
