[ MULTIMEDIA ] To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution and other antibacterial drugs , Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
This preparation for the treatment of colitis is for oral use only and is not systemically absorbed .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution must be given orally for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by Clostridium difficile .
Orally administered Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is not effective for other types of infection .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C . difficile .
If parenteral vancomycin therapy is desired , use an intravenous preparation of vancomycin and consult the package insert accompanying that preparation .
DESCRIPTION Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution USP contains chromatographically purified vancomycin hydrochloride USP , a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic derived from Amycolatopsis orientalis ( formerly Nocardia orientalis ) , which has the chemical formula C66H75Cl2N9O24 • HCl .
The molecular weight of vancomycin hydrochloride is 1 , 485 . 73 ; 500 mg of the base is equivalent to 0 . 34 mmol .
Vancomycin hydrochloride has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution USP is intended for reconstitution with water .
Each 5 mL of reconstituted solution contains vancomycin hydrochloride equivalent to 250 mg ( 0 . 17 mmol ) vancomycin .
Inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , sodium benzoate , sucralose , and mixed berry flavor .
Contains no ingredient made from a gluten - containing grain ( wheat , barley or rye ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vancomycin is poorly absorbed after oral administration .
During multiple dosing of 250 mg every 8 hours for 7 doses , fecal concentrations of vancomycin in volunteers exceeded 100 mg / kg in the majority of samples .
No blood concentrations were detected and urinary recovery did not exceed 0 . 76 % .
In anephric patients with no inflammatory bowel disease , blood concentrations of vancomycin were barely measurable ( 0 . 66 mcg / mL ) in 2 of 5 subjects who received 2 g of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution daily for 16 days .
No measurable blood concentrations were attained in the other 3 subjects .
With doses of 2 g daily , very high concentrations of drug can be found in the feces ( > 3 , 100 mg / kg ) and very low concentrations ( < 1 mcg / mL ) can be found in the serum of patients with normal renal function who have pseudomembranous colitis .
Orally administered vancomycin does not usually enter the systemic circulation even when inflammatory lesions are present .
After multiple - dose oral administration of vancomycin , measurable serum concentrations may infrequently occur in patients with active C . difficile - induced pseudomembranous colitis , and , in the presence of renal impairment , the possibility of accumulation exists .
Microbiology The bactericidal action of vancomycin results primarily from inhibition of cell - wall biosynthesis .
In addition , vancomycin alters bacterial - cell - membrane permeability and RNA synthesis .
NOTE : The oral form of vancomycin is effective only for the infections noted in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
The oral form is not effective for any other type of infection .
Vancomycin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) associated with enterocolitis Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Clostridium difficile antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is administered orally for treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) and antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C . difficile .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above indications ; therefore , Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution must be given orally for these infections .
Orally administered Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is not effective for other types of infection .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution and other antibacterial drugs , Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin .
WARNINGS Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) has occurred following oral vancomycin hydrochloride therapy in randomized controlled clinical trials , and can occur either during or after completion of therapy .
The risk of nephrotoxicity is increased in patients over 65 years of age .
In patients over 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin oral solution to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin .
It may be transient or permanent .
It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive intravenous doses , who have an underlying hearing loss , or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent , such as an aminoglycoside .
Serial tests of auditory function may be helpful in order to minimize the risk of ototoxicity .
Severe Dermatologic Reactions Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullous dermatosis ( LABD ) have been reported in association with the use of vancomycin .
Cutaneous signs or symptoms reported include skin rashes , mucosal lesions , and blisters .
Discontinue Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution at the first appearance of signs and symptoms of TEN , SJS , DRESS , AGEP , or LABD .
Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Significant systemic absorption has been reported in some patients ( e . g . , patients with renal insufficiency and / or colitis ) who have taken multiple oral doses of vancomycin hydrochloride for C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
In these patients , serum vancomycin concentrations reached therapeutic levels for the treatment of systemic infections .
Some patients with inflammatory disorders of the intestinal mucosa also may have significant systemic absorption of vancomycin .
These patients may be at risk for the development of adverse reactions associated with higher doses of vancomycin oral solution ; therefore , monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be appropriate in some instances , e . g . , in patients with renal insufficiency and / or colitis or in those receiving concomitant therapy with an aminoglycoside antibacterial drug .
PRECAUTIONS Use of vancomycin may result in the overgrowth of non - susceptible bacteria .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Prescribing vancomycin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug resistant bacteria .
Hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculitis , including permanent loss of vision , occurred in patients receiving intracameral or intravitreal administration of vancomycin during or after cataract surgery .
The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by the intracameral or intravitreal route have not been established by adequate and well - controlled studies .
Vancomycin is not indicated for prophylaxis of endophthalmitis .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with vancomycin .
It is not known whether vancomycin can affect reproduction capacity .
In a controlled clinical study , the potential ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects of vancomycin on infants were evaluated when the drug was administered intravenously to pregnant women for serious staphylococcal infections complicating intravenous drug abuse .
Vancomycin was found in cord blood .
No sensorineural hearing loss or nephrotoxicity attributable to vancomycin was noted .
One infant whose mother received vancomycin in the third trimester experienced conductive hearing loss that was not attributed to the administration of vancomycin .
Because the number of patients treated in this study was limited and vancomycin was administered only in the second and third trimesters , it is not known whether vancomycin causes fetal harm .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Vancomycin is excreted in human milk based on information obtained with the intravenous administration of vancomycin .
However , systemic absorption of vancomycin is very low following oral administration of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
It is not known whether oral vancomycin is excreted in human milk , as no studies of vancomycin concentration in human milk after oral administration have been done .
Caution should be exercised when Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Because of the potential for adverse events , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Geriatric Use In clinical trials , 54 % of vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects were > 65 years of age .
Of these , 40 % were between the ages of > 65 and 75 , and 60 % were > 75 years of age .
Clinical studies with vancomycin hydrochloride in C . difficile - associated diarrhea have demonstrated that geriatric subjects are at increased risk of developing nephrotoxicity following treatment with oral vancomycin hydrochloride , which may occur during or after completion of therapy .
In patients over 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
Patients over 65 years of age may take longer to respond to therapy compared to patients 65 years of age and younger .
Clinicians should be aware of the importance of appropriate duration of vancomycin hydrochloride treatment in patients over 65 years of age and not discontinue or switch to alternative treatment prematurely .
Information for Patients Severe Dermatologic Reactions Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations .
Instruct patients to stop taking Vancocin immediately and promptly seek medical attention at the first signs or symptoms of skin rash , mucosal lesions and blisters ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) occurred in 5 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycin hydrochloride typically first occurred within one week after completion of treatment ( median day of onset was Day 16 ) .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycin hydrochloride occurred in 6 % of subjects over 65 years of age and 3 % of subjects 65 years of age and younger .
Nephrotoxicity can also occur during oral vancomycin administration .
The incidences of hypokalemia , urinary tract infection , peripheral edema , insomnia , constipation , anemia , depression , vomiting , and hypotension were higher among subjects over 65 years of age than in subjects 65 years of age and younger .
Discontinuation of study drug due to adverse events occurred in 7 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation of vancomycin hydrochloride were C . difficile colitis ( < 1 % ) , nausea ( < 1 % ) , and vomiting ( < 1 % ) .
Ototoxicity Cases of hearing loss associated with intravenously administered vancomycin have been reported .
Most of these patients had kidney dysfunction or a preexisting hearing loss or were receiving concomitant treatment with an ototoxic drug .
Vertigo , dizziness , and tinnitus have been reported rarely .
Hematopoietic Reversible neutropenia , usually starting 1 week or more after onset of intravenous therapy with vancomycin or after a total dosage of more than 25 g , has been reported for several dozen patients .
Neutropenia appears to be promptly reversible when vancomycin is discontinued .
Thrombocytopenia has rarely been reported .
Miscellaneous Patients have been reported to have had anaphylaxis , drug fever , nausea , chills , eosinophilia , rashes including exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( see WARNINGS , Severe Dermatologic Reactions ) , and vasculitis in association with the administration of vancomycin .
A condition has been reported that is similar to the IV - induced syndrome with symptoms consistent with anaphylactoid reactions , including hypotension , wheezing , dyspnea , urticaria , pruritus , flushing of the upper body ( “ Red Man Syndrome ” ) , pain and muscle spasm of the chest and back .
These reactions usually resolve within 20 minutes but may persist for several hours .
Post Marketing Reports Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullous dermatosis ( LABD ) ( see WARNINGS , Severe Dermatologic Reactions ) .
OVERDOSAGE Supportive care is advised , with maintenance of glomerular filtration .
Vancomycin is poorly removed by dialysis .
Hemofiltration and hemoperfusion with polysulfone resin have been reported to result in increased vancomycin clearance .
For current information on the management of overdosage , contact the National Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is used in treating antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C . difficile and staphylococcal enterocolitis .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections .
The usual adult total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g administered orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
Pediatric Patients The usual daily dosage is 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . PREPARATION AND STABILITY Mix the contents of the bottle with water as directed below .
When reconstituted , each 5 mL contains approximately 250 mg of vancomycin .
These mixtures may be kept for two weeks in a refrigerator without significant loss of potency .
Directions for mixing Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution USP : 80 mL – Slowly add 80 mL water and shake vigorously .
150 mL – Slowly add 150 mL water and shake vigorously .
300 mL – Slowly add 300 mL water and shake vigorously .
The appropriate oral solution dose may be diluted in 1 oz of water and given to the patient to drink .
The diluted material may be administered via nasogastric tube .
HOW SUPPLIED Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution USP equivalent to 250 mg per 5 mL vancomycin is available as : 150 mL bottle ( 7 . 5 g * ) NDC 63629 - 1971 - 1 * Equivalent to vancomycin Store at refrigerated conditions , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
After mixing , refrigerate and use within two weeks .
Shake well before using .
Keep tightly closed .
Vancomycin Hcl 50 mg / ml Solution , # 150 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
