Pharmacist Instructions For Preparation Pharmacist Instructions for Preparation 1 Remove and Inspect the Contents of the Kit Ensure that the safety seals are present and intact on the tramadol hydrochloride glass vial , the cherry flavoring bottle , and the oral suspension bottle .
If the seals are not intact , do not use the kit .
2 Prepare for Combining Wear gloves and eye protection during the compounding operations .
Remove the seals from the Cherry flavor bottle and the oral suspension bottle .
Break the perforated seal and remove the cap from the tramadol hydrochloride bottle .
3 Transfer the Oral Suspension Vehicle to the Tramadol Hydrochloride Bottle Uncap the oral suspension bottle .
Pour a small amount of the oral suspension liquid ( approximately one - third to one - half the volume of the tramadol hydrochloride bottle ) into the tramadol hydrochloride bottle .
Cap the tramadol bottle and shake well several times to dissolve the tramadol hydrochloride powder .
Empty the dissolved contents back into the oral suspension bottle .
Cap and shake well the oral suspension bottle .
Repeat this step a minimum of 3 times .
Visually ensure that all of the tramadol hydrochloride has been dissolved and transfered to the suspension bottle .
4 Transfer the Oral Suspension Vehicle that now contains the suspended Tramadol Hydrochloride to the Cherry Flavoring Bottle Uncap the oral suspension bottle that now contains the suspended tramadol hydrochloride .
Uncap the bottle that contains the cherry flavoring .
Pour the entire contents of the oral suspension bottle into the cherry flavoring bottle .
Shake vigorously by inverting the bottle repeatedly several times .
5 Complete the Combining Process Press the oral syringe adaptor into the cherry flavor bottle suspension .
Recap the flavor bottle suspension , which now contains the tramadol hydrochloride .
Shake well by inverting repeatedly several times .
6 Re - label the Resulting Final Suspension Label the resulting final suspension as required for prescription products .
Ensure that the original cherry oral suspension vehicle label is removed or obscured since the original label is no longer accurate once the resulting final suspension is completed .
The contents of the bottle need to be shaken well before taken as directed by the medical professional .
Store the unused kit at room temperature of 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Once prepared , store the resulting final suspension between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The resulting final suspension is stable for up to eight weeks based upon the real - time and accelerated stability studies .
An oral dispenser is provided in the kit and may be used to facilitate the accurate delivery of the suspension .
U . S . Patents Pending Manufactured and repacked by : California Pharmaceuticals , LLC 768 Calle Plano Camarillo , CA 93012 CSCIV7 rev 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Synapryn - 107 product label NDC 70332 - 107 - 01 For Prescription Compounding Only Rx only RapidPaq ™ SYNAPRYN ™ CIV ( tramadol hydrochloride 11 . 4 mg / mL [ equivalent to 10 . 0 mg / mL tramadol ] Cherry oral suspension - kit ) RapidPaq ™ kits provide a convenient approach to rapidly prepare prescription medications , as all components are pre - measured .
This kit is manufactured according to the US FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice ( cGMP ) .
Description This kit contains active and inactive materials to prepare 500 mL of a tramadol hydrochloride cherry oral suspension containing 11 . 4 mg / mL tramadol hydrochloride [ equivalent to 10 . 0 mg / mL tramadol ] .
This kit may only be used for prescription compounding by an appropriate licensed medical professional , in response to a physician ' s prescription , to create a medication tailored to the specific needs of an individual patient .
Contains : - 5 . 8 g tramadol hydrochloride USP [ equivalent to 5 . 1 g tramadol ] - 250 mL Cherry Flavor Vehicle ( purified water , glycerin , cherry flavor , sorbitol , potassium sorbate , xanthan gum , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , sodium citric acid ) - 250 mL Oral Suspension vehicle ( purified water , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , citric acid ) - Press in bottle adaptor - Oral dispenser - Insructions [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
