Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Use For the temporary relief of pain .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or on cut , irritated or swollen skin on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor When using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton .
• do not allow contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast feeding ask a physician before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults / children 12 years and older • clean and dry affected area • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • use 1 patch for up to 12 hours Children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Other information Store at room temperature - do not exceed 86 ° Fahrenheit , 30 ° Celsius .
Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Dihydroxyaluminium Aminoacetate , Glycerin , Kaolin , Partially Neutralized Polyacrylate , Polysorbate 80 , Polyvinyl Pyrrolidone 90 , Propylene Glycol , Tartaric Acid , Tetrasodium Edetate , Titanium Dioxide , Urea , Water .
Principal Display Panel - Carton Label CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Aspercreme ® Lidocaine Patch * MAXIMUM STRENGTH NDC 66902 - 203 - 05 Pain Relief Patch UP TO 12 HOURS ODOR FREE LIDOCAINE 4 % • Desensitizes aggravated nerves • Fast acting • Easy to apply • No irritation or burning Topical Anesthetic Package Contains 5 Individually Wrapped Patches 5 PATCHES 3 5 / 16 " x 5 1 / 2 " ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Pouch Label CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Aspercreme ® Lidocaine Patch * MAXIMUM STRENGTH NDC 66902 - 203 - 05 Pain Relief Patch UP TO 12 HOURS ODOR FREE LIDOCAINE 4 % • Desensitizes aggravated nerves • Fast acting • Easy to apply • No irritation or burning Topical Anesthetic 1 PATCH 3 5 / 16 " x 5 1 / 2 " ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
