CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR I . V . USE .
Concentrated Solution - For use only after dilution with compatible intravenous fluids to correct sodium deficiency when oral replacement is not feasible .
Glass Fliptop Vials Rx only Pharmacy Bulk Package – Not for Direct Infusion DESCRIPTION 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution for intravenous administration ONLY AFTER DILUTION to replenish electrolytes .
The preparations contain 23 . 4 g of sodium chloride ( 400 mEq each of Na + and Cl - ) in Water for Injection , USP .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The additive may contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The pH is 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
The specific gravity is 1 . 15 , and the osmolarity is 8 . 01 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The molecular weight is 58 . 44 g / mol .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is a sterile dosage form which contains multiple single doses for preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of the total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 142 mEq / L .
While the sodium ion can diffuse across cell membranes , the intracellular sodium is maintained at a much lower concentration than extracellular sodium through the expenditure of energy by the cell ( so called " sodium cation pump " ) .
Loss of intracellular potassium ion is usually accompanied by an increase in intracellular sodium ion .
Sodium is the principal ion that determines osmotic pressure of interstitial fluids and the degree of tissue hydration .
When serum sodium concentration is low , the secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) by the pituitary is inhibited , thereby preventing water reabsorption by the distal renal tubules .
On the other hand , adrenal secretion of aldosterone increases renal tubular reabsorption of sodium in an effort to re - establish normal serum sodium concentration .
Chloride ( Cl ¯ ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated for use as an electrolyte replenisher in parenteral fluid therapy .
It serves as an additive for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) and as an additive for carbohydrate containing I . V . fluids .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is hypertonic and must be diluted prior to administration .
Inadvertent direct injection or absorption of concentrated sodium chloride solution may give rise to sudden hypernatremia and such complications as cardiovascular shock , central nervous system disorders , specifically osmotic demyelination syndrome , extensive hemolysis , cortical necrosis of the kidneys and severe local tissue necrosis ( if administered extravascularly ) .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium may result in sodium retention .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium - free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Excessive amounts of sodium chloride by any route may cause hypokalemia and acidosis .
Excessive amounts by the parenteral route may precipitate congestive heart failure and acute pulmonary edema , especially in patients with cardiovascular disease and in patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin or drugs that may give rise to sodium retention .
Special caution should be used in administering sodium - containing solutions to patients with severe renal impairment , cirrhosis of the liver or other edematous or sodium - retaining states .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether sodium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sodium chloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP have not been established in pediatric patients .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium - containing solutions .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may result in electrolyte imbalance with water retention , edema , loss of potassium and aggravation of an existing acidosis .
See WARNINGS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is administered intravenously only after addition to a larger volume of fluid .
The dose , dilution and rate of injection are dependent upon the individual needs of each patient .
In solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) , 120 mEq of sodium / day ( range : 75 – 180 mEq / day ) is the recommended adult dosage , whereas the recommended dosage is 3 – 4 mEq / kg / day for preterm infants .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Discard unused portion .
Additives may be incompatible with the fluid dispensed from this container .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When admixing , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package Use Aseptic Technique • For hanger application , peel off the paper liner from both ends of the tape hanger to expose 3 / 4 in .
long adhesive portions .
Adhere each end to the label on the bottle .
• During use , container must be stored and all manipulations performed in an appropriate laminar flow hood .
• Remove cover from container and cleanse closure with antiseptic .
• Insert suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device and suspend unit in a laminar flow hood .
The closure should be entered only once and after initial entry , the withdrawal of container contents should be completed promptly in one continuous operation .
Should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 hours from initial closure puncture is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations ; i . e . , discard container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
• Sequentially dispense aliquots of 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP into intravenous containers using appropriate transfer device .
During fluid transfer operations , the Pharmacy Bulk Package should be maintained under the storage conditions recommended in the labeling .
• Inspect solution after admixing .
Discard if the solution is discolored or particulates are observed .
HOW SUPPLIED 23 . 4 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( 4 mEq / mL ) is supplied as follows : NDC No Type Container Dose / Volume Concentration 0409 - 1141 - 02 Pharmacy Bulk Package – Glass Fliptop Vial 400 mEq / 100 mL 4 mEq / mL Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1106 - 2 . 0 Revised : 6 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Vial Label CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
* 23 . 4 % SODIUM CHLORIDE Injection , USP 400 mEq / 100 mL ( 4 mEq / mL ) Rx only Pharmacy Bulk Package – Not for Direct Infusion .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
