[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide is an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its chemical formula is C9H13BrN2O2 , molecular weight 261 . 12 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets contain 180 mg pyridostigmine bromide .
Inactive Ingredients : carnuba wax , zein , calcium phosphate , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate .
ACTIONS Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets inhibits the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects ; for example , pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATION Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets is useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets is contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect underdosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or " insensitive " state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of edrophonium chloride as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins , 1 calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins , 2 Grob3 or Schwab . 4 , 5 Usage in Pregnancy The safety of Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ' s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTION Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney . 6 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect . 6 , 7 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Each Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablet contains 180 mg pyridostigmine bromide .
This form provides uniformly slow release , hence prolonged duration of drug action ; it facilitates control of myasthenic symptoms with fewer individual doses daily .
The immediate effect of a 180 mg Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablet is about equal to that of a 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide tablet ; however , its duration of effectiveness , although varying in individual patients , averages 2 ½ times that of a 60 mg dose .
Dosage The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
One to three Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets , 180 mg , once or twice daily , will usually be sufficient to control symptoms ; however , the needs of certain individuals may vary markedly from this average .
The interval between doses should be at least 6 hours .
For optimum control , it may be necessary to use the more rapidly acting tablets or syrup in conjunction with Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets therapy .
Note : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on edrophonium chloride .
HOW SUPPLIED Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets , 180 mg , are supplied in bottles of 30 tablets , NDC 47781 - 335 - 30 .
Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets are available as a cream to yellow , capsule - shaped tablet , containing 180 mg pyridostigmine bromide , debossed “ 335 ” on one side and has functional scoring on the other side .
Storage Store Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets in a dry place with the silica gel ( desiccant ) enclosed .
Note : Because of the hygroscopic nature of the Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended release Tablets , mottling may occur .
This does not affect their efficacy .
REFERENCES 1 Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
2 Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
3 Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of patho - genesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med .
Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
4 Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
5 Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
6 Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No . 1 , 78 - 81 .
7 Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesiology .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Congr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
8 Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 .
Made in USA Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Pine Brook NJ 07058 USA PI335 - 01 Rev . 01 / 2017 PKG02240 NDC 47781 - 335 - 30 Pyridostigmine Bromide EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS Pharmacist : Dispense in the unit of use container .
180 mg CAUTION : EXTREMELY MOISTURE SENSITIVE .
DO NOT REMOVE DESICCANT .
CLOSE TIGHTLY .
Rx only 30 Tablets Alvogen ® [ MULTIMEDIA ]
