DESCRIPTION Sterile Indomethacin for Injection , USP for intravenous administration is lyophilized indomethacin for injection .
Each vial of indomethacin for injection contains indomethacin sodium , USP equivalent to 1 mg indomethacin ; 3 mg sodium citrate dihydrate , USP and 0 . 13 mg citric acid anhydrous , USP as a white to yellow lyophilized powder or plug .
Variations in the size of the lyophilized plug and the intensity of color have no relationship to the quality or amount of indomethacin present in the vial .
Indomethacin for injection is designated chemically as 1 - ( 4 - chlorobenzoyl ) - 5 - methoxy - 2 - methyl - 1 H - indole - 3 - acetic acid , sodium salt , trihydrate .
Its molecular weight is 433 . 82 .
Its empirical formula is C19H15ClNNaO4 • 3H2O and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mechanism of action through which indomethacin causes closure of a patent ductus arteriosus is not known , it is believed to be through inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis .
Indomethacin has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis , both in vitro and in vivo .
In human newborns with certain congenital heart malformations , PGE 1 dilates the ductus arteriosus .
In fetal and newborn lambs , E type prostaglandins have also been shown to maintain the patency of the ductus , and as in human newborns , indomethacin causes its constriction .
Studies in healthy young animals and in premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus indicated that , after the first dose of intravenous indomethacin , there was a transient reduction in cerebral blood flow velocity and cerebral blood flow .
Similar decreases in mesenteric blood flow and velocity have been observed .
The clinical significance of these effects has not been established .
In double - blind , placebo - controlled studies of indomethacin for injection in 460 small pre - term infants , weighing 1750 g or less , the neonates treated with placebo had a ductus closure rate after 48 hours of 25 to 30 percent , whereas those treated with indomethacin for injection had a 75 to 80 percent closure rate .
In one of these studies , a multicenter study , involving 405 pre - term infants , later reopening of the ductus arteriosus occurred in 26 percent of neonates treated with indomethacin for injection , however , 70 percent of these closed subsequently without the need for surgery or additional indomethacin .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism The disposition of indomethacin following intravenous administration ( 0 . 2 mg / kg ) in pre - term neonates with patent ductus arteriosus has not been extensively evaluated .
Even though the plasma half - life of indomethacin was variable among premature infants , it was shown to vary inversely with postnatal age and weight .
In one study , of 28 neonates who could be evaluated , the plasma half - life in those less than 7 days old averaged 20 hours ( range : 3 to 60 hours , n = 18 ) .
In neonates older than 7 days , the mean plasma half - life of indomethacin was 12 hours ( range : 4 to 38 hours , n = 10 ) .
Grouping the neonates by weight , mean plasma half - life in those weighing less than 1000 g was 21 hours ( range : 9 to 60 hours , n = 10 ) ; in those neonates weighing more than 1000 g , the mean plasma half - life was 15 hours ( range : 3 to 52 hours , n = 18 ) .
Following intravenous administration in adults , indomethacin is eliminated via renal excretion , metabolism , and biliary excretion .
Indomethacin undergoes appreciable enterohepatic circulation .
The mean plasma half - life of indomethacin is 4 . 5 hours .
In the absence of enterohepatic circulation , it is 90 minutes .
Indomethacin has been found to cross the blood - brain barrier and the placenta .
In adults , about 99 percent of indomethacin is bound to protein in plasma over the expected range of therapeutic plasma concentrations .
The percent bound in neonates has not been studied .
In controlled trials in premature infants , however , no evidence of bilirubin displacement has been observed as evidenced by increased incidence of bilirubin encephalopathy ( kernicterus ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin for injection is indicated to close a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus in premature infants weighing between 500 and 1750 g when after 48 hours usual medical management ( e . g . , fluid restriction , diuretics , digitalis , respiratory support , etc . ) is ineffective .
Clear - cut clinical evidence of a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus should be present , such as respiratory distress , a continuous murmur , a hyperactive precordium , cardiomegaly and pulmonary plethora on chest x - ray .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin for injection is contraindicated in : neonates with proven or suspected infection that is untreated ; neonates who are bleeding , especially those with active intracranial hemorrhage or gastrointestinal bleeding ; neonates with thrombocytopenia ; neonates with coagulation defects ; neonates with or who are suspected of having necrotizing enterocolitis ; neonates with significant impairment of renal function ; neonates with congenital heart disease in whom patency of the ductus arteriosus is necessary for satisfactory pulmonary or systemic blood flow ( e . g . , pulmonary atresia , severe tetralogy of Fallot , severe coarctation of the aorta ) .
WARNINGS Gastrointestinal Effects In the collaborative study , major gastrointestinal bleeding was no more common in those neonates receiving indomethacin than in those neonates on placebo .
However , minor gastrointestinal bleeding ( i . e . , chemical detection of blood in the stool ) was more commonly noted in those neonates treated with indomethacin .
Severe gastrointestinal effects have been reported in adults with various arthritic disorders treated chronically with oral indomethacin .
[ For further information , see package insert for oral indomethacin . ]
Central Nervous System Effects Prematurity per se , is associated with an increased incidence of spontaneous intraventricular hemorrhage .
Because indomethacin may inhibit platelet aggregation , the potential for intraventricular bleeding may be increased .
However , in the large multicenter study of indomethacin for injection ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage in neonates treated with indomethacin for injection was not significantly higher than in the control neonates .
Renal Effects Indomethacin for injection may cause significant reduction in urine output ( 50 percent or more ) with concomitant elevations of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine , and reductions in glomerular filtration rate and creatinine clearance .
These effects in most neonates are transient , disappearing with cessation of therapy with indomethacin for injection .
However , because adequate renal function can depend upon renal prostaglandin synthesis , indomethacin for injection may precipitate renal insufficiency , including acute renal failure , especially in neonates with other conditions that may adversely affect renal function ( e . g . , extracellular volume depletion from any cause , congestive heart failure , sepsis , concomitant use of any nephrotoxic drug , hepatic dysfunction ) .
When significant suppression of urine volume occurs after a dose of indomethacin for injection , no additional dose should be given until the urine output returns to normal levels .
Indomethacin for injection in pre - term infants may suppress water excretion to a greater extent than sodium excretion .
When this occurs , a significant reduction in serum sodium values ( i . e . , hyponatremia ) may result .
Neonates should have serum electrolyte determinations done during therapy with indomethacin for injection .
Renal function and serum electrolytes should be monitored ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Indomethacin for injection may mask the usual signs and symptoms of infection .
Therefore , the physician must be continually on the alert for this and should use the drug with extra care in the presence of existing controlled infection .
Severe hepatic reactions have been reported in adults treated chronically with oral indomethacin for arthritic disorders .
[ For further information , see package insert for oral indomethacin . ]
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop in the neonate , or if systemic manifestations occur , indomethacin for injection should be discontinued .
Indomethacin for injection may inhibit platelet aggregation .
In one small study , platelet aggregation was grossly abnormal after indomethacin therapy ( given orally to premature infants to close the ductus arteriosus ) .
Platelet aggregation returned to normal by the tenth day .
Premature infants should be observed for signs of bleeding .
The drug should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage as the solution may be irritating to tissue .
Drug Interactions Since renal function may be reduced by indomethacin for injection , consideration should be given to reduction in dosage of those medications that rely on adequate renal function for their elimination .
Because the half - life of digitalis ( given frequently to pre - term infants with patent ductus arteriosus and associated cardiac failure ) may be prolonged when given concomitantly with indomethacin , the neonate should be observed closely ; frequent ECGs and serum digitalis levels may be required to prevent or detect digitalis toxicity early .
Furthermore , in one study of premature infants treated with indomethacin for injection and also receiving either gentamicin or amikacin , both peak and trough levels of these aminoglycosides were significantly elevated .
Therapy with indomethacin may blunt the natriuretic effect of furosemide .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
In a study of 19 premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus treated with either indomethacin for injection alone or a combination of indomethacin for injection and furosemide , results showed that neonates receiving both indomethacin for injection and furosemide had significantly higher urinary output , higher levels of sodium and chloride excretion , and higher glomerular filtration rates than did those receiving indomethacin for injection alone .
In this study , the data suggested that therapy with furosemide helped to maintain renal function in the premature infant when indomethacin for injection was added to the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus .
Indomethacin usually does not influence the hypoprothrombinemia produced by anticoagulants .
When indomethacin is added to anticoagulants , prothrombin time should be monitored closely .
In post marketing experience , bleeding has been reported in patients on concomitant treatment with anticoagulants and indomethacin for injection .
Caution should be exercised when indomethacin for injection and anticoagulants are administered concomitantly .
In some patients with compromised renal function , the co - administration of an NSAID and an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin II antagonist may result in further deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure , which is usually reversible .
Neonatal Effects In rats and mice , oral indomethacin 4 mg / kg / day given during the last three days of gestation caused a decrease in maternal weight gain and some maternal and fetal deaths .
An increased incidence of neuronal necrosis in the diencephalon in the live - born fetuses was observed .
At 2 mg / kg / day , no increase in neuronal necrosis was observed as compared to the control groups .
Administration of 0 . 5 or 4 mg / kg / day during the first three days of life did not cause an increase in neuronal necrosis at either dose level .
Pregnant rats , given 2 mg / kg / day and 4 mg / kg / day during the last trimester of gestation , delivered offspring whose pulmonary blood vessels were both reduced in number and excessively muscularized .
These findings are similar to those observed in the syndrome of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the neonate .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of 405 premature infants weighing less than or equal to 1750 g with evidence of large ductal shunting , in those neonates treated with indomethacin ( n = 206 ) , there was a statistically significantly greater incidence of bleeding problems , including gross or microscopic bleeding into the gastrointestinal tract , oozing from the skin after needle stick , pulmonary hemorrhage , and disseminated intravascular coagulopathy .
There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups with reference to intracranial hemorrhage .
The neonates treated with indomethacin for injection also had a significantly higher incidence of transient oliguria and elevations of serum creatinine ( greater than or equal to 1 . 8 mg / dL ) than did the neonates treated with placebo .
The incidences of retrolental fibroplasia ( grades III and IV ) and pneumothorax in neonates treated with indomethacin for injection were no greater than in placebo controls and were statistically significantly lower than in surgically - treated neonates .
The following additional adverse reactions in neonates have been reported from the collaborative study , anecdotal case reports , from other studies using rectal , oral , or intravenous indomethacin for treatment of patent ductus arteriosus or in marketed use .
The rates are calculated from a database which contains experience of 849 indomethacin - treated neonates reported in the medical literature , regardless of the route of administration .
One year follow - up is available on 175 neonates and shows no long - term sequelae which could be attributed to indomethacin .
In controlled clinical studies , only electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction ( of the reactions listed below ) occurred statistically significantly more frequently after indomethacin for injection than after placebo .
Reactions marked with a single asterisk ( * ) occurred in 3 to 9 percent of indomethacin - treated neonates ; those marked with a double asterisk ( ** ) occurred in 3 to 9 percent of both indomethacin and placebo - treated neonates .
Unmarked reactions occurred in less than 3 percent of neonates .
Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction in 41 percent of neonates , including one or more of the following : reduced urinary output ; reduced urine sodium , chloride , or potassium , urine osmolality , free water clearance , or glomerular filtration rate ; elevated serum creatinine or BUN ; uremia .
Cardiovascular : intracranial bleeding ** , pulmonary hypertension .
Gastrointestinal : gastrointestinal bleeding * , vomiting , abdominal distention , transient ileus , gastric perforation , localized perforation ( s ) of the small and / or large intestine , necrotizing enterocolitis .
Metabolic : hyponatremia * , elevated serum potassium * , reduction in blood sugar , including hypoglycemia , increased weight gain ( fluid retention ) .
Coagulation : decreased platelet aggregation ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The following adverse reactions have also been reported in neonates treated with indomethacin , however , a causal relationship to therapy with indomethacin for injection has not been established : Cardiovascular : bradycardia .
Respiratory : apnea , exacerbation of pre - existing pulmonary infection .
Metabolic : acidosis / alkalosis .
Hematologic : disseminated intravascular coagulation , thrombocytopenia .
Ophthalmic : retrolental fibroplasia ** .
Dermatologic : drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hospira , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 441 - 4100 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION ONLY .
Dosage recommendations for closure of the ductus arteriosus depend on the age of the infant at the time of therapy .
A course of therapy is defined as three intravenous doses of indomethacin for injection given at 12 to 24 hour intervals , with careful attention to urinary output .
If anuria or marked oliguria ( urinary output < 0 . 6 mL / kg / hr ) is evident at the scheduled time of the second or third dose of indomethacin for injection , no additional doses should be given until laboratory studies indicate that renal function has returned to normal ( see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ) .
Dosage according to age is as follows : AGE at 1 st dose DOSAGE ( mg / kg ) Less than 48 hours 1 st 0 . 2 2 nd 0 . 1 3 rd 0 . 1 2 to 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 Over 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 25 0 . 25 If the ductus arteriosus closes or is significantly reduced in size after an interval of 48 hours or more from completion of the first course of indomethacin for injection , no further doses are necessary .
If the ductus arteriosus re - opens , a second course of 1 to 3 doses may be given , each dose separated by a 12 to 24 hour interval as described above .
If the neonate remains unresponsive to therapy with indomethacin for injection after 2 courses , surgery may be necessary for closure of the ductus arteriosus .
If severe adverse reactions occur , STOP THE DRUG .
Directions For Use Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
The reconstituted solution is clear , slightly yellow and essentially free from visible particles .
The solution should be prepared only with 1 to 2 mL of preservative - free Sterile Sodium Chloride Injection , 0 . 9 percent or preservative - free Sterile Water for Injection .
Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in neonates .
Therefore , all diluents should be preservative - free .
If 1 mL of diluent is used , the concentration of indomethacin in the solution will equal approximately 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 1 mL ; if 2 mL of diluent are used , the concentration of the solution will equal approximately 0 . 05 mg / 0 . 1 mL .
Any unused portion of the solution should be discarded because there is no preservative contained in the vial .
A fresh solution should be prepared just prior to each administration .
Once reconstituted , the indomethacin solution may be injected intravenously .
While the optimal rate of injection has not been established , published literature suggests an infusion rate over 20 to 30 minutes .
Further dilution with intravenous infusion solutions is not recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Indomethacin for Injection , USP is a lyophilized white to yellow powder or plug supplied as single - dose vials containing indomethacin sodium , USP equivalent to 1 mg indomethacin ; 3 mg sodium citrate dihydrate , USP and 0 . 13 mg citric acid anhydrous , USP .
Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 1113 - 01 Carton containing 1 Single - dose Vial 1 mg / vial Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Store container in carton until contents have been used .
Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited Hyderabad 500043 , India Manufactured for : Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1393 - 1 . 0 Revised : 07 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mg Vial Label NDC 0409 - 1113 - 01 Rx only Indomethacin for Injection , USP 1 mg / vial FOR THE PREPARATION OF INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS ONLY STERILE Single - dose vial Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mg Vial Carton NDC 0409 - 1113 - 01 Rx only Indomethacin for Injection , USP 1 mg / vial FOR THE PREPARATION OF INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS ONLY For Intravenous Use Only STERILE Single - dose vial Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
