Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Chlophedianol Hydrochloride 12 . 5 mg Chlorcyclizine Hydrochloride 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antitussive Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • calms the cough control center and relieves coughing • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • excitability may occur , especially in children • may cause marked drowsiness • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition • new symptoms occur Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Use a calibrated measuring device for administering the drug to a child .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 6 to 8 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 6 to 8 hours , not to exceed 3 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Inactive ingredients Cherry Flavor , Citric Acid , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sorbitol , Sucralsoe .
Questions ?
Comments ?
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 888 - 455 - 5253 .
Manufactured for : Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals , Madison , MS 39110 HI282 Rev . 12 / 11 Product Packaging The packaging below represents the labeling currently used .
Principal display panel for 8 fl oz .
label : NDC 54868 - 6381 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] biclora LIQUID Antitusive · Antihistamine Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains : Chlophedianol HCl ....................... 12 . 5 mg Chlorcyclizine HCl ....................... 12 . 5 mg For professional use .
The labeling for this product includes professional labeling which is not intended for use by the general public .
Patent Pending Alcohol Free · Dye Free Cherry Flavor HAWTHORN PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
