Active Ingredient Purpose Menthol 4 % ..........................
Topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor body aches and pains due to : ar thritis pain , back pain , muscle aches , joint pain .
Warnings for external use only Do not use immediately before or after bathing or using a hot tub , in conjunction with heating pad , under wrapping or bandage where perspiration is likely to occur .
Stop use and ask doctor if excessive irritation occurs , if condition worsens , if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes , mucous membranes , open wounds , cuts , abrasions and where skin touches skin , perspiration may increase the sensation of heat , rinse eyes with cold water if irritated .
Stop use and ask doctor if excessive irritation occurs , if condition worsens , if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Directions apply a suitable amount of product to the region of specific pain or injury , avoiding sensitive areas reapply up to three times per daily , wash hands thoroughly in the event of contact .
First time users should apply a small amount and increase gradually on reapplications depending on reaction .
For use on children under the age of 12 consult a physician Arthritis suf ferers : Apply three times daily for two weeks .
Wait twenty minutes before washing arthritic hands .
Thereafter use as needed .
Other information Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Boswellia Carterii Resin Extract , Capsicum Annuum Resin , Carbomer , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Glycerin , Isopropyl Alcohol , Polysorbate 80 , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , Propylene Glycol , Triethanolamine , Water ( Aqua ) Questions or comments : 1 - 800 - 4 NO - PAIN , toastproducts . com MFD FOR : Toast Products 400 Sproul Street , Pittsburgh , PA 15136 MFG IN USA apply to the region of specific pain or injury [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
