Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) 11 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults and Pediatric Patients • • Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear , Nose , and Throat : Amoxicillin for oral suspension is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible ( ONLY β - lactamase – negative ) isolates of Streptococcus species .
( α - and β ‑ - hemolytic isolates only ) , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp . , or Haemophilus influenzae .
• • Infections of the Genitourinary Tract : Amoxicillin for oral suspension is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible ( ONLY β - lactamase – negative ) isolates of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , or Enterococcus faecalis .
• • Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure : Amoxicillin for oral suspension is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible ( ONLY β - lactamase – negative ) isolates of Streptococcus spp .
( α - and β - hemolytic isolates only ) , Staphylococcus spp . , or E . coli .
• • Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract : Amoxicillin for oral suspension is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible ( ONLY β - lactamase – negative ) isolates of Streptococcus spp .
( α - and β - hemolytic isolates only ) , S . pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp . , or H . influenzae .
Adult Patients only • • Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease : Triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) with clarithromycin and lansoprazole : Amoxicillin for oral suspension , in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy , is indicated for the treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or 1 - year history of a duodenal ulcer ) to eradicate H . pylori .
Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Dual therapy for H . pylori with lansoprazole : Amoxicillin for oral suspension , in combination with lansoprazole delayed - release capsules as dual therapy , is indicated for the treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or 1 - year history of a duodenal ulcer ) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected .
( See the clarithromycin package insert , MICROBIOLOGY . )
Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin for oral suspension should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Amoxicillin for oral suspension is a penicillin - class antibacterial indicated for treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of designated microorganisms .
( 1 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients ( 1 ) • • Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear , Nose , and Throat • • Infections of the Genitourinary Tract • • Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure • • Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract Adult Patients only ( 1 ) • • Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • In Adults , 750 to 1750 mg / day in divided doses every 8 to 12 hours .
• • In Pediatric Patients over 3 Months of Age , 20 to 45 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 8 to 12 hours .
Refer to full prescribing information for specific dosing regimens .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • • The upper dose for neonates and infants aged 3 months or younger is 30 mg / kg / day divided every 12 hours .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Dosing for H . pylori Infection ( in Adults ) : Triple therapy : 1 gram amoxicillin , 500 mg clarithromycin , and 30 mg lansoprazole , all given twice daily ( every 12 hours ) for 14 days .
Dual therapy : 1 gram amoxicillin and 30 mg lansoprazole , each given three times daily ( every 8 hours ) for 14 days .
( 2 . 4 ) • • Reduce the dose in patients with severe renal impairment ( GFR greater than 30 mL / min ) .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance , amoxicillin for oral suspension should be taken at the start of a meal .
2 . 2 Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months ( 12 weeks ) and Older • • Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic , or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
• • It is recommended that there be at least 10 days ’ treatment for any infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes to prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever .
• • In some infections , therapy may be required for several weeks .
It may be necessary to continue clinical and / or bacteriological follow - up for several months after cessation of therapy .
Table 1 .
Dosage Recommendations for Adult and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months ( 12 weeks ) and Older a Dosage for infections caused by bacteria that are intermediate in their susceptibility to amoxicillin should follow the recommendations for severe infections .
Infection Severitya Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Greater than 40 kg Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Less than 40 kg Ear / Nose / Throat Skin / Skin Structure Genitourinary Tract Mild / Moderate 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours 25 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 12 hours or 20 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 8 hours Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 8 hours Lower Respiratory Tract Mild / Moderate or Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg / kg / day in divided doses every 8 hours 2 . 3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Aged Less than 12 Weeks ( 3 months ) • • It is recommended that there be at least 10 days ’ treatment for any infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes to prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever .
• • Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group , the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin for oral suspension is 30 mg / kg / day divided every 12 hours .
There are currently no dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with impaired renal function .
• • Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic , or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
2 . 4 Dosage for H . pylori Infection in Adults Triple therapy : The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin for oral suspension , 500 mg clarithromycin , and 30 mg lansoprazole , all given twice daily ( every 12 hours ) for 14 days .
Dual therapy : The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin for oral suspension and 30 mg lansoprazole , each given three times daily ( every 8 hours ) for 14 days .
Please refer to clarithromycin and lansoprazole full prescribing information .
2 . 5 Dosage in Renal Impairment for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Greater than 40 kg • • Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe .
Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of less than 30 mL / min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose .
See dosage regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage Regimen GFR 10 to 30 mL / min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL / min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2 . 6 Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows : Tap bottle until all powder flows freely .
Measure the total amount of water ( see Table 3 ) .
Add approximately 1 / 3 of the water to powder .
Replace cap and shake vigorously to wet powder .
Add remaining water .
Replace cap and shake vigorously .
Table 3 .
Amount of Water for Mixing For Oral Suspension Strength Bottle Size Total Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution For Oral Suspension 200 mg / 5 mL 50 mL 35 mL 75 mL 52 mL 100 mL 69 mL For Oral Suspension 400 mg / 5 mL 50 mL 35 mL 75 mL 52 mL 100 mL 69 mL After reconstitution , the required amount of suspension should be placed directly on the child ’ s tongue for swallowing .
Alternate means of administration are to add the required amount of suspension to formula , milk , fruit juice , water , ginger ale , or cold drinks .
These preparations should then be taken immediately .
SHAKE ORAL SUSPENSION WELL BEFORE USING .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Any unused portion of the reconstituted suspension must be discarded after 14 days .
Refrigeration is preferable , but not required .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Oral Suspension : 200 mg / 5 mL , and 400 mg / 5 mL .
Each 5 mL of reconstituted bubble - gum - flavored pink suspension contains 200 mg , and 400 mg amoxicillin as the trihydrate .
• • For Oral Suspension : 200 mg / 5 mL and 400 mg / 5 mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to amoxicillin for oral suspension or to other β - lactam antibacterial drugs ( e . g . , penicillins and cephalosporins ) .
History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to amoxicillin for oral suspension or to other beta - lactams ( e . g . , penicillins or cephalosporins ) .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Anaphylactic reactions : Serious and occasionally fatal anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy , including amoxicillin .
Discontinue amoxicillin if a reaction occurs ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) : Monitor closely .
Discontinue if rash progresses .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) ( ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis ) : Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylactic Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy including amoxicillin .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following parenteral therapy , it has occurred in patients on oral penicillins .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity who have experienced severe reactions when treated with cephalosporins .
Before initiating therapy with amoxicillin , careful inquiry should be made regarding previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , or other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , amoxicillin should be discontinued , and appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 2 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Amoxicillin may cause severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) , such as Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) .
If patients develop skin rash they should be monitored closely , and amoxicillin discontinued if lesions progress .
5 . 3 Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including amoxicillin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing amoxicillin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
5 . 5 Skin Rash in Patients with Mononucleosis A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , amoxicillin should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
5 . 6 Phenylketonurics The oral suspension formulations of amoxicillin do not contain phenylalanine and can be used by phenylketonurics .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Anaphylactic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( greater than 1 % ) observed in clinical trials of amoxicillin for oral suspension were diarrhea , rash , vomiting , and nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( greater than 1 % ) observed in clinical trials of amoxicillin for oral suspension were diarrhea , rash , vomiting , and nausea .
Triple therapy : The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who received triple therapy ( amoxicillin / clarithromycin / lansoprazole ) were diarrhea ( 7 % ) , headache ( 6 % ) , and taste perversion ( 5 % ) .
Dual therapy : The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who received double therapy amoxicillin / lansoprazole were diarrhea ( 8 % ) and headache ( 7 % ) .
For more information on adverse reactions with clarithromycin or lansoprazole , refer to the Adverse Reactions section of their package inserts .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during postmarketing use of penicillins .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to amoxicillin .
• • Infections and Infestations : Mucocutaneous candidiasis .
• • Gastrointestinal : Black hairy tongue , and hemorrhagic / pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Immune : Hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ( including shock ) , angioedema , serum sickness - like reactions ( urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia , and frequently fever ) , hypersensitivity vasculitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Skin and Appendages : Rashes , pruritus , urticaria , erythema multiforme , SJS , TEN , DRESS , AGEP , exfoliative dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Liver : A moderate rise in AST and / or ALT has been noted , but the significance of this finding is unknown .
Hepatic dysfunction including cholestatic jaundice , hepatic cholestasis and acute cytolytic hepatitis have been reported .
• • Renal : Crystalluria has been reported [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
• • Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
• • Central Nervous System : Reversible hyperactivity , agitation , anxiety , insomnia , confusion , convulsions , behavioral changes , aseptic meningitis , and / or dizziness have been reported .
• • Miscellaneous : Tooth discoloration ( brown , yellow , or gray staining ) has been reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Co - administration with probenicid is not recommended .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Co - administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Amoxicillin may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin .
Concurrent use of amoxicillin and probenecid may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin .
7 . 2 Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time ( increased international normalized ratio [ INR ] ) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants .
Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently .
Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation .
7 . 3 Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
7 . 4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin may affect the intestinal flora , leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen / progesterone contraceptives .
7 . 5 Other Antibacterials Chloramphenicol , macrolides , sulfonamides , and tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal effects of penicillin .
This has been demonstrated in vitro ; however , the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented .
7 . 6 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Following administration of ampicillin or amoxicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone , and estradiol has been noted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 2000 mg / kg ( 3 and 6 times the 3 g human dose , based on body surface area ) .
There was no evidence of harm to the fetus due to amoxicillin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , amoxicillin should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin is poorly absorbed during labor .
It is not known whether use of amoxicillin in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood of the necessity for an obstetrical intervention .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Penicillins have been shown to be excreted in human milk .
Amoxicillin use by nursing mothers may lead to sensitization of infants .
Caution should be exercised when amoxicillin is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin for the treatment of upper respiratory tract infections , and infections of the genitourinary tract , skin and skin structure and lower respiratory tract have been established in pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin for the treatment of H . Pylori infection have not been established in pediatric patients .
Because of incompletely developed renal function in neonates and young infants , the elimination of amoxicillin may be delayed .
Dosing of amoxicillin should be modified in pediatric patients 12 weeks or younger ( 3 months or younger ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use An analysis of clinical studies of amoxicillin was conducted to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently from younger subjects .
These analyses have not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but a greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Dosing in Renal Impairment Amoxicillin is primarily eliminated by the kidney and dosage adjustment is usually required in patients with severe renal impairment ( GFR less than 30 mL / min ) .
See Dosing in Renal Impairment ( 2 . 5 ) for specific recommendations in patients with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue amoxicillin , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison - control center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms .
Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in a small number of patients after overdosage with amoxicillin1 .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of amoxicillin .
Amoxicillin may be removed from circulation by hemodialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Amoxicillin for oral suspension , USP is a semisynthetic antibacterial ( amoxicillin ) , an analog of ampicillin , with a broad spectrum of bactericidal activity against many Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms .
Chemically , it is ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - ( - ) - 2 - amino - 2 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid trihydrate .
It may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The amoxicillin molecular formula is C16H19N3O5S • 3H2O , and the molecular weight is 419 . 45 .
Each 5 mL of reconstituted suspension contains amoxicillin trihydrate equivalent to 200 mg or 400 mg anhydrous amoxicillin .
Each 5 mL of the 200 mg and 400 mg reconstituted suspension contains 0 . 16 mEq ( 3 . 61 mg ) of sodium ; Inactive ingredients : sucrose , sodium citrate , sodium benzoate , edetate disodium , FD & C Red No . 3 , xanthan gum , bubble - gum flavor , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Amoxicillin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Amoxicillin is stable in the presence of gastric acid and is rapidly absorbed after oral administration .
The effect of food on the absorption of amoxicillin from the tablets and suspension of amoxicillin has been partially investigated ; 400 mg and 875 mg formulations have been studied only when administered at the start of a light meal .
Orally administered doses of 250 mg and 500 mg amoxicillin capsules result in average peak blood levels 1 to 2 hours after administration in the range of 3 . 5 mcg / mL to 5 mcg / mL and 5 . 5 mcg / mL to 7 . 5 mcg / mL , respectively .
Mean amoxicillin pharmacokinetic parameters from an open , two - part , single - dose crossover bioequivalence study in 27 adults comparing 875 mg of amoxicillin with 875 mg of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium showed that the 875 mg tablet of amoxicillin produces an AUC0 - ∞ of 35 . 4 ± 8 . 1 mcg • hr / mL and a Cmax of 13 . 8 ± 4 . 1 mcg / mL .
Dosing was at the start of a light meal following an overnight fast .
Orally administered doses of amoxicillin suspension , 125 mg / 5 mL and 250 mg / 5 mL , result in average peak blood levels 1 to 2 hours after administration in the range of 1 . 5 mcg / mL to 3 mcg / mL and 3 . 5 mcg / mL to 5 mcg / mL , respectively .
Oral administration of single doses of 400 mg chewable tablets and 400 mg / 5 mL suspension of amoxicillin to 24 adult volunteers yielded comparable pharmacokinetic data : Table 4 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Amoxicillin ( 400 mg chewable tablets and 400 mg / 5 mL suspension ) in Healthy Adults Dose * Amoxicillin AUC0 - ∞ ( mcg • hr / mL ) Amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) † Amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) 400 mg ( 5 mL of suspension ) 17 . 1 ( 3 . 1 ) 5 . 92 ( 1 . 62 ) 400 mg ( 1 chewable tablet ) 17 . 9 ( 2 . 4 ) 5 . 18 ( 1 . 64 ) * Administered at the start of a light meal .
† Mean values of 24 normal volunteers .
Peak concentrations occurred approximately 1 hour after the dose .
Distribution : Amoxicillin diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids , with the exception of brain and spinal fluid , except when meninges are inflamed .
In blood serum , amoxicillin is approximately 20 % protein - bound .
Following a 1 gram dose , and utilizing a special skin window technique to determine levels of the antibiotic , it was noted that therapeutic levels were found in the interstitial fluid .
Metabolism and Excretion : The half - life of amoxicillin is 61 . 3 minutes .
Approximately 60 % of an orally administered dose of amoxicillin is excreted in the urine within 6 to 8 hours .
Detectable serum levels are observed up to 8 hours after an orally administered dose of amoxicillin .
Since most of the amoxicillin is excreted unchanged in the urine , its excretion can be delayed by concurrent administration of probenecid [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Amoxicillin is similar to penicillin in its bactericidal action against susceptible bacteria during the stage of active multiplication .
It acts through the inhibition of cell wall biosynthesis that leads to the death of the bacteria .
Resistance Resistance to amoxicillin is mediated primarily through enzymes called beta - lactamases that cleave the beta - lactam ring of amoxicillin , rendering it inactive .
Antimicrobial Activity Amoxicillin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Gram - Positive Bacteria Enterococcus faecalis Staphylococcus spp .
Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus spp .
( alpha and beta - hemolytic ) Gram - Negative Bacteria Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Helicobacter pylori Proteus mirabilis Susceptibility Testing : For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Studies to detect mutagenic potential of amoxicillin alone have not been conducted ; however , the following information is available from tests on a 4 : 1 mixture of amoxicillin and potassium clavulanate .
Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid mixture was non - mutagenic in the Ames bacterial mutation assay , and the yeast gene conversion assay .
Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid mixture was weakly positive in the mouse lymphoma assay , but the trend toward increased mutation frequencies in this assay occurred at doses that were also associated with decreased cell survival .
Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid mixture was negative in the mouse micronucleus test and in the dominant lethal assay in mice .
Potassium clavulanate alone was tested in the Ames bacterial mutation assay and in the mouse micronucleus test and was negative in each of these assays .
In a multi - generation reproduction study in rats , no impairment of fertility or other adverse reproductive effects were seen at doses up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 2 times the 3 g human dose based on body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 H . pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Randomized , double - blind clinical studies performed in the United States in patients with H . pylori and duodenal ulcer disease ( defined as an active ulcer or history of an ulcer within 1 year ) evaluated the efficacy of lansoprazole in combination with amoxicillin capsules and clarithromycin tablets as triple 14 - day therapy , or in combination with amoxicillin capsules as dual 14 - day therapy , for the eradication of H . pylori .
Based on the results of these studies , the safety and efficacy of 2 different eradication regimens were established : Triple therapy : Amoxicillin 1 gram twice daily / clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily / lansoprazole 30 mg twice daily ( see Table 5 ) .
Dual therapy : Amoxicillin 1 gram three times daily / lansoprazole 30 mg three times daily ( see Table 6 ) .
All treatments were for 14 days .
H . pylori eradication was defined as 2 negative tests ( culture and histology ) at 4 to 6 weeks following the end of treatment .
Triple therapy was shown to be more effective than all possible dual therapy combinations .
Dual therapy was shown to be more effective than both monotherapies .
Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Table 5 .
H . pylori Eradication Rates When Amoxicillin is Administered as Part of a Triple Therapy Regimen Study Triple Therapy Triple Therapy Evaluable Analysisa [ 95 % Confidence Interval ] ( number of patients ) Intent - to - Treat Analysisb [ 95 % Confidence Interval ] ( number of patients ) Study 1 92 [ 80 to 97 . 7 ] ( n equals 48 ) 86 [ 73 . 3 to 93 . 5 ] ( n equals 55 ) Study 2 86 [ 75 . 7 to 93 . 6 ] ( n equals 66 ) 83 [ 72 to 90 . 8 ] ( n equals 70 ) a This analysis was based on evaluable patients with confirmed duodenal ulcer ( active or within 1 year ) and H . pylori infection at baseline defined as at least 2 of 3 positive endoscopic tests from CLOtest ® , histology , and / or culture .
Patients were included in the analysis if they completed the study .
Additionally , if patients dropped out of the study due to an adverse event related to the study drug , they were included in the analysis as failures of therapy .
b Patients were included in the analysis if they had documented H . pylori infection at baseline as defined above and had a confirmed duodenal ulcer ( active or within 1 year ) .
All dropouts were included as failures of therapy .
Table 6 .
H . pylori Eradication Rates When Amoxicillin is Administered as Part of a Dual Therapy Regimen Study Dual Therapy Dual Therapy Evaluable Analysisa [ 95 % Confidence Interval ] ( number of patients ) Intent - to - Treat Analysisb [ 95 % Confidence Interval ] ( number of patients ) Study 1 77 [ 62 . 5 to 87 . 2 ] ( n equals 51 ) 70 [ 56 . 8 to 81 . 2 ] ( n equals 60 ) Study 2 66 [ 51 . 9 to 77 . 5 ] ( n equals 58 ) 61 [ 48 . 5 to 72 . 9 ] ( n equals67 ) a This analysis was based on evaluable patients with confirmed duodenal ulcer ( active or within 1 year ) and H . pylori infection at baseline defined as at least 2 of 3 positive endoscopic tests from CLOtest ® , histology , and / or culture .
Patients were included in the analysis if they completed the study .
Additionally , if patients dropped out of the study due to an adverse event related to the study drug , they were included in the analysis as failures of therapy .
b Patients were included in the analysis if they had documented H . pylori infection at baseline as defined above and had a confirmed duodenal ulcer ( active or within 1 year ) .
All dropouts were included as failures of therapy .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Swanson - Biearman B , Dean BS , Lopez G , Krenzelok EP .
The effects of penicillin and cephalosporin ingestions in children less than six years of age .
Vet Hum Toxicol .
1988 ; 30 : 66 - 67 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Amoxicillin for Oral Suspension , USP : Each 5 mL of reconstituted bubble - gum - flavored pink suspension contains 200 mg or 400 mg amoxicillin as the trihydrate .
200 mg / 5 mL 100 mL Bottle NDC 68788 - 8324 - 1 100 mL BottleNDC 68788 - 8325 - 1 Store dry powder at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Instructions Advise patients that amoxicillin may be taken every 8 hours or every 12 hours , depending on the dose prescribed .
Allergic Reactions Counsel patients that amoxicillin contains a penicillin class drug product that can cause allergic reactions in some individuals .
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions ( SCAR ) Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations .
Instruct patients to stop taking amoxicillin immediately and promptly report the first signs or symptoms of skin rash , mucosal lesions , or any other sign of hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Diarrhea Counsel patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs which usually ends when the antibacterial drug is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial drugs , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken their last dose of the antibacterial drug .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including amoxicillin , should only be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
Antibacterial drugs do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Storage and Special Handling Instructions It is preferable to refrigerate amoxicillin suspensions , but not required .
Shake oral suspensions well before each use .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
When dosing a child with the suspension ( liquid ) , use a calibrated oral syringe .
Be sure to rinse the calibrated oral syringe after each use .
Bottles of suspension of amoxicillin may contain more liquid than required .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about the amount to use and the days of treatment your child requires .
Discard any unused portion of the suspension after 14 days .
CLINITEST is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
CLINISTIX is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
CLOtest is a registered trademark of Kimberly - Clark Corporation .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc .
279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 12 / 2022 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg / 5 mL ( 100 mL Bottle ) NDC 68788 - 8324 - 1 Rx only Amoxicillin for Oral Suspension , USP 200 mg / 5 mL When reconstituted , each 5 mL contains : AMOXICILLIN , 200 mg as the trihydrate 100 mL ( when reconstituted ) AUROBINDO Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 400 mg / 5 mL ( 100 mL Bottle ) NDC 68788 - 8325 - 1 Rx only Amoxicillin for Oral Suspension , USP 400 mg / 5 mL When reconstituted , each 5 mL contains : AMOXICILLIN , 400 mg as the trihydrate 100 mL ( when reconstituted ) AUROBINDO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
