Active Ingredient Section Drug Facts Active Ingredients Avobenzone ( 3 % ) Ensulizole ( 1 % ) Octisalate ( 2 % ) Octocrylene ( 10 % ) Titanium Dioxide ( 1 . 52 % ) Purpose Section Purpose Sunscreen Keep Out of reach of Children Section Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Section Uses * helps prevent sunburn * higher SPF gives more sunburn protection Warnings Section Warnings For External Use Only When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Section Directions * shake before using * apply liberally 30 minutes before sun exposure and as needed * children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredient Section Inactive ingredients : Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cyclomethicone , Propanediol , Methylene Bis - Benzotriazolyl Tetramethtbutylphenol , Trimethoxycaprlylsilane , Sodium Hydroxide , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Phenyl Trimethicone , Tricontanyl PVP , Phenoxyethanol , 1 , 2 - Hexandiol , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Tocopheryl ( Vitamin E ) Acetate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Panthenol ( Pro - Vitamin B5 ) , Disodium EDTA , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Xanthan Gum , Allantoin , Polyglyceryl - 10 Pentastearate , Behenyl Alcohol , Sodium Stearoyl Lactylate , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Dunalietta Salina ( Dead Sea Alga ) Extract , Maris Sal ( Dead Sea Water ) The Osmotertm Dead Sea Water Major Elements / in mg / L : Micro Elements / in ppml : Magnesium Mg 92 , 000 Stronium Sr 670 Calcium Ca 35 , 000 Boron B 120 Bromine Br 14 , 000 Lithium Li 40 Sodium Na 2 , 700 Manganese Mn 10 Potassium K 2 , 100 Barium Ba 9 Other information Section Other information * provides moderate protection against sunburn Package Label The AHAVA Osmoter tm A gift from nature , Dead Sea minerals are known to improve your skin ' s well - being and youthfulness .
The osmoter tm is a unique blend of minerals contained in all AHAVA products .
It optimizes cell metabolism , strenghtens skin against UV damage , and significantly increases moisture to keep your skin looking young and supple .
AHAVA ACTIVE DEAD SEA MINERALS SPRAY spf 30 mineral SUNCARE Sun Protection Anti - Aging Moisturizing Spray * moderate UVA / UVB sunscreen * very water resistant suitable for children 250 ml / 8 . 5 fl .
oz Sun protection Anti - Aging moisturizing Spray SPF 30 enriched with Mineral Skin Osmoter tm Protect your skin from the damages of the sun with this quality blend ( Multi - Layer Protection System tm ) of highly effective sunscreens .
Dead Sea minerals and seaweed , essential vitamins and moisturizing agents , all proven to be efficient in fighting premature aging .
An easy - to - apply light milk .
* Mineral Skin Osmoter tm - Ahava unique blend of Dead Sea minerals proven to reduce the damage of sun radiation .
Suitable for children .
Approved for sensitive skin .
Allergy tested .
Mineral oil free .
Paraben free .
Absorbs more than 90 % of UVA rays ( according to the Australian standards ) .
Retains SPF after 80 minutes of activity in the water .
Ahava advice : Avoid exposing children under 6 months of age to the sun .
The use of a high sun protection factor for children is recommended ( SPF 30 and up ) .
Avoid extended exposure to the sun , even while using this product .
www . ahava . com Against animal testing PARABEN FREE ALLERGY TESTED A product of AHAVA Dead Sea Laboratories , Ltd .
Dead Sea , israel .
Manufactures by Zohar Cosmetics Ltd .
POB 16 Yerucham , israel .
In USA : Ahava NA , 411 5 th Ave . NY , 10016 1 - 800 - 366 - 7254 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
