Inactive Ingredients Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Citric Acid , Cetyl Alcohol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl Alcohol , Triacetin , Xanthan Gum .
Description Each gram contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide in a vehicle consisting of : Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Citric Acid , Cetyl Alcohol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl Alcohol , Triacetin , Xanthan Gum .
Indications This product is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses : seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca ( dandruff ) .
It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides .
Contraindications This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
This product is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
Dosage and Administration Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly , pat dry and repeat after 10 to 20 seconds .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described above for 8 to 10 days or as directed by your physician .
lf skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently .
Regular shampooing following the use of this product is not necessary , but the hair should be shampooed at least once a week .
As the condition subsides , the interval between applications may be lengthened .
Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence .
Should the condition recur after stopping therapy , the application of this product should be reinitiated as at the beginning of treatment .
Secondary cutaneous bacterial infections - Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described above for 8 to 10 days or as directed by your physician .
If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Warnings WARNING : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
See label booklet for Full prescribing information .
Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
This bottle is not filled to the top but does contain 6 fl oz of product as identified on the front panel of the bottle .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 877 ) 250 - 3427 .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 63629 - 9262 - 1 : 177 g Liquid in a BOTTLE Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % # 177 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
