WARNING Ketorolac tromethamine tablets , a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , are indicated for the short - term ( up to 5 days in adults ) , management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level and only as continuation treatment following IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine , if necessary .
The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and ketorolac tromethamine should not exceed 5 days .
Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients and they are NOT indicated for minor or chronic painful conditions .
Increasing the dose of ketorolac tromethamine tablets beyond a daily maximum of 40 mg in adults will not provide better efficacy but will increase the risk of developing serious adverse events .
GASTROINTESTINAL RISK • Ketorolac tromethamine , including ketorolac tromethamine tablets can cause peptic ulcers , gastrointestinal bleeding and / or perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation , and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events ( see ) .
WARNINGS CARDIOVASCULAR RISK • NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk ( see and ) .
WARNINGSCLINICAL STUDIES • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( see ) .
WARNINGS RENAL RISK • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment and in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see ) .
WARNINGS RISK OF BLEEDING • Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , patients with hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding ( see and ) .
WARNINGSPRECAUTIONS Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery .
RISK DURING LABOR AND DELIVERY • The use of ketorolac tromethamine in labor and delivery is contraindicated because it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions .
CONCOMITANT USE WITH NSAIDs • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients currently receiving aspirin or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risk of inducing serious NSAID - related side effects .
SPECIAL POPULATIONS • Dosage should be adjusted for patients 65 years or older , for patients under 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight ( see ) and for patients with moderately elevated serum creatinine ( see ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONWARNINGS DESCRIPTION Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
The chemical name for ketorolac tromethamine , USP is ( ± ) - 5 - benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol ( 1 : 1 ) .
The structural formula is : H [ MULTIMEDIA ] C H NO C H NO M . W . 376 . 40 15133 . 4113 Ketorolac tromethamine , USP is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S and [ + ] R ketorolac tromethamine , USP .
Ketorolac tromethamine , USP may exist in three crystal forms .
All forms are equally soluble in water .
Ketorolac tromethamine , USP has a pKa of 3 . 5 and an n - octanol / water partition coefficient of 0 . 26 .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are white , round , convex , unscored , film coated tablets .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine , USP , the active ingredient .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Ketorolac tromethamine is a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) that exhibits analgesic activity in animal models .
The mechanism of action of ketorolac , like that of other NSAIDs , is not completely understood but may be related to prostaglandin synthetase inhibition .
The biological activity of ketorolac tromethamine is associated with the S - form .
Ketorolac tromethamine possesses no sedative or anxiolytic properties .
The peak analgesic effect of ketorolac tromethamine occurs within 2 to 3 hours and is not statistically significantly different over the recommended dosage range of ketorolac tromethamine .
The greatest difference between large and small doses of ketorolac tromethamine is in the duration of analgesia .
Pharmacokinetics Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S - and [ + ] R - enantiomeric forms , with the S - form having analgesic activity .
Comparison of IV , IM and Oral Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine , following IV and IM doses of ketorolac tromethamine and oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine , are compared in .
In adults , the extent of bioavailability following administration of the ORAL form of ketorolac tromethamine and the IM form of ketorolac tromethamine was equal to that following an IV bolus .
Table 1 Linear Kinetics In adults , following administration of single ORAL doses of ketorolac tromethamine or IM or IV doses of ketorolac tromethamine in the recommended dosage ranges , the clearance of the racemate does not change .
This implies that the pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine in adults , following single or multiple IM or IV doses of ketorolac tromethamine or recommended oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine , are linear .
At the higher recommended doses , there is a proportional increase in the concentrations of free and bound racemate .
Absorption Ketorolac tromethamine is 100 % absorbed after oral administration ( see ) .
Oral administration of ketorolac tromethamine after a high - fat meal resulted in decreased peak and delayed time - to - peak concentrations of ketorolac tromethamine by about 1 hour .
Antacids did not affect the extent of absorption .
Table 1 Distribution The mean apparent volume ( V ) of ketorolac tromethamine following complete distribution was approximately 13 liters .
This parameter was determined from single - dose data .
The ketorolac tromethamine racemate has been shown to be highly protein bound ( 99 % ) .
Nevertheless , plasma concentrations as high as 10 mcg / mL will only occupy approximately 5 % of the albumin binding sites .
Thus , the unbound fraction for each enantiomer will be constant over the therapeutic range .
A decrease in serum albumin , however , will result in increased free drug concentrations .
ß Ketorolac tromethamine is excreted in human milk ( see , ) .
PRECAUTIONSNursing Mothers Metabolism Ketorolac tromethamine is largely metabolized in the liver .
The metabolic products are hydroxylated and conjugated forms of the parent drug .
The products of metabolism , and some unchanged drug , are excreted in the urine .
Excretion The principal route of elimination of ketorolac and its metabolites is renal .
About 92 % of a given dose is found in the urine , approximately 40 % as metabolites and 60 % as unchanged ketorolac .
Approximately 6 % of a dose is excreted in the feces .
A single - dose study with 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine ( n = 9 ) demonstrated that the S - enantiomer is cleared approximately two times faster than the R - enantiomer and that the clearance was independent of the route of administration .
This means that the ratio of S / R plasma concentrations decreases with time after each dose .
There is little or no inversion of the R - to S - form in humans .
The clearance of the racemate in normal subjects , elderly individuals and in hepatically and renally impaired patients is outlined in ( see , ) .
Table 2 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYKinetics in Special Populations The half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine S - enantiomer was approximately 2 . 5 hours ( SD ± 0 . 4 ) compared with 5 hours ( SD ± 1 . 7 ) for the R - enantiomer .
In other studies , the half - life for the racemate has been reported to lie within the range of 5 to 6 hours .
Accumulation Ketorolac tromethamine administered as an IV bolus every 6 hours for 5 days to healthy subjects ( n = 13 ) , showed no significant difference in C on Day 1 and Day 5 .
Trough levels averaged 0 . 29 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 13 ) on Day 1 and 0 . 55 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 23 ) on Day 6 .
Steady state was approached after the fourth dose .
max Accumulation of ketorolac tromethamine has not been studied in special populations ( geriatric , pediatric , renal failure or hepatic disease patients ) .
Kinetics in Special Populations Geriatric Patients Based on single - dose data only , the half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine racemate increased from 5 to 7 hours in the elderly ( 65 to 78 years ) compared with young healthy volunteers ( 24 to 35 years ) ( see ) .
There was little difference in the C for the two groups ( elderly , 2 . 52 mcg / mL ± 0 . 77 ; young , 2 . 99 mcg / mL ± 1 . 03 ) ( see , ) .
Table 2 maxPRECAUTIONSGeriatric Use ( ≥ 65 Years of Age ) Pediatric Patients Limited information is available regarding the pharmacokinetics of dosing of ketorolac tromethamine in the pediatric population .
Following a single intravenous bolus dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg in 10 children 4 to 8 years old , the half - life was 5 . 8 ± 1 . 6 hours , the average clearance was 0 . 042 ± 0 . 01 L / hr / kg , the volume of distribution during the terminal phase ( V ) was 0 . 34 ± 0 . 12 L / kg and the volume of distribution at steady state ( Vss ) was 0 . 26 ± 0 . 08 L / kg .
The volume of distribution and clearance of ketorolac in pediatric patients was higher than those observed in adult subjects ( see ) .
There are no pharmacokinetic data available for administration of ketorolac tromethamine by the IM route in pediatric patients .
βTable 1 Renal Insufficiency Based on single - dose data only , the mean half - life of ketorolac tromethamine in renally impaired patients is between 6 and 19 hours and is dependent on the extent of the impairment .
There is poor correlation between creatinine clearance and total ketorolac tromethamine clearance in the elderly and populations with renal impairment ( r = 0 . 5 ) .
In patients with renal disease , the AUC of each enantiomer increased by approximately 100 % compared with healthy volunteers .
The volume of distribution doubles for the S - enantiomer and increases by 1 / 5 th for the R - enantiomer .
The increase in volume of distribution of ketorolac tromethamine implies an increase in unbound fraction .
∞ The AUC - ratio of the ketorolac tromethamine enantiomers in healthy subjects and patients remained similar , indicating there was no selective excretion of either enantiomer in patients compared to healthy subjects ( see , ) .
∞ WARNINGSRenal Effects Hepatic Insufficiency There was no significant difference in estimates of half - life , AUC and C in 7 patients with liver disease compared to healthy volunteers ( see , and ) .
∞ maxPRECAUTIONSHepatic EffectTable 2 Race Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been identified .
Table 1 : Table of Approximate Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) Following Oral , Intramuscular and Intravenous Doses of Ketorolac TromethaminePharmacokinetic Parameters ( units ) Oral [ 1 ] Intramuscular [ 2 ] Intravenous Bolus [ 3 ] 10 mg 15 mg 30 mg 60 mg 15 mg 30 mg Bioavailability ( extent ) 100 % T ( min ) max [ 4 ] 44 ± 34 33 ± 21 [ 5 ] 44 ± 29 33 ± 21 null 1 . 1 ± 0 . 7 null 2 . 9 ± 1 . 8 C ( mcg / mL ) [ single - dose ] max [ 6 ] 0 . 87 ± 0 . 22 1 . 14 ± 0 . 32 null 2 . 42 ± 0 . 68 4 . 55 ± 1 . 27 null 2 . 47 ± 0 . 51 null 4 . 65 ± 0 . 96 C ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] max 1 . 05 ± 0 . 26 null 1 . 56 ± 0 . 44 null 3 . 11 ± 0 . 87 null N / A [ 7 ] 3 . 09 ± 1 . 17 null 6 . 85 ± 2 . 61 C ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] min [ 8 ] 0 . 29 ± 0 . 07 null 0 . 47 ± 0 . 13 null 0 . 93 ± 0 . 26 null N / A 0 . 61 ± 0 . 21 null 1 . 04 ± 0 . 35 C ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] avg [ 9 ] 0 . 59 ± 0 . 20 null 0 . 94 ± 0 . 29 null 1 . 88 ± 0 . 59 null N / A 1 . 09 ± 0 . 30 null 2 . 17 ± 0 . 59 V ( L / kg ) β [ 10 ] 0 . 175 ± 0 . 039 0 . 210 ± 0 . 044 % Dose metabolized ≤ 50 % Dose excreted in feces = 6 % Dose excreted in urine = 91 % Plasma protein binding = 99 [ 1 ] Derived from PO pharmacokinetic studies in 77 normal fasted volunteers [ 2 ] Derived from IM pharmacokinetic studies in 54 normal volunteers [ 3 ] Derived from IV pharmacokinetic studies in 24 normal volunteers [ 4 ] Time - to - peak plasma concentration [ 5 ] Mean value was simulated from observed plasma concentration data and standard deviation was simulated from percent coefficient of variation for observed C and T data maxmax [ 6 ] Peak plasma concentration [ 7 ] Not applicable because 60 mg is only recommended as a single dose [ 8 ] Trough plasma concentration [ 9 ] Average plasma concentration [ 10 ] Volume of distribution Table 2 : The Influence of Age , Liver , and Kidney Function on the Clearance and Terminal Half - Life of Ketorolac Tromethamine ( IM and ORAL ) in Adult Populations [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Total Clearance [ in L / h / kg ] [ 3 ] Terminal Half - Life [ in hours ] Type of Subjects IM ORAL IM ORAL Mean ( range ) Mean ( range ) Mean ( range ) Mean ( range ) Normal Subjects IM ( n = 54 ) mean age = 32 , range = 18 to 60 Oral ( n = 77 ) mean age = 32 , range = 20 to 60 0 . 023 0 . 025 5 . 3 5 . 3 ( 0 . 010 to 0 . 046 ) ( 0 . 013 to 0 . 050 ) ( 3 . 5 to 9 . 2 ) ( 2 . 4 to 9 ) Healthy Elderly Subjects IM ( n = 13 ) , Oral ( n = 12 ) mean age = 72 , range = 65 to 78 0 . 019 0 . 024 7 6 . 1 ( 0 . 013 to 0 . 034 ) ( 0 . 018 to 0 . 034 ) ( 4 . 7 to 8 . 6 ) ( 4 . 3 to 7 . 6 ) Patients With Hepatic Dysfunction IM and Oral ( n = 7 ) mean age = 51 , range = 43 to 64 0 . 029 0 . 033 5 . 4 4 . 5 ( 0 . 013 to 0 . 066 ) ( 0 . 019 to 0 . 051 ) ( 2 . 2 to 6 . 9 ) ( 1 . 6 to 7 . 6 ) Patients With Renal Impairment IM ( n = 25 ) , Oral ( n = 9 ) serum creatinine = 1 . 9 to 5 mg / dL , mean age ( IM ) = 54 , range = 35 to 71 mean age ( Oral ) = 57 , range = 39 to 70 0 . 015 0 . 016 10 . 3 10 . 8 ( 0 . 005 to 0 . 043 ) ( 0 . 007 to 0 . 052 ) ( 5 . 9 to 19 . 2 ) ( 3 . 4 to 18 . 9 ) Renal Dialysis Patients IM and Oral ( n = 9 ) mean age = 40 , range = 27 to 63 0 . 016 -- 13 . 6 -- ( 0 . 003 to 0 . 036 ) ( 8 to 39 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Estimated from 30 mg single IM doses of ketorolac tromethamine [ 2 ] Estimated from 10 mg single oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine [ 3 ] Liters / hour / kilogram IV Administration In normal adult subjects ( n = 37 ) , the total clearance of 30 mg IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine was 0 . 030 ( 0 . 017 to 0 . 051 ) L / h / kg .
The terminal half - life was 5 . 6 ( 4 to 7 . 9 ) hours ( see for use of IV dosing of ketorolac tromethamine in pediatric patients ) .
Kinetics in Special Populations CLINICAL STUDIES Adult Patients In a postoperative study , where all patients received morphine by a PCA device , patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine as fixed intermittent boluses ( e . g . , 30 mg initial dose followed by 15 mg q3h ) , required significantly less morphine ( 26 % ) than the placebo group .
Analgesia was significantly superior , at various postdosing pain assessment times , in the patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine plus PCA morphine as compared to patients receiving PCA - administered morphine alone .
IVIV Pediatric Patients There are no data available to support the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in pediatric patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals .
Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are indicated for the short - term ( ≤ 5 days ) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are to be used only as continuation treatment , if necessary .
The total combined duration of use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP and ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses ( see , , , and ) .
Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible , but Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablet USP therapy is not to exceed 5 days .
WARNINGSPRECAUTIONSDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONADVERSE REACTIONS CONTRAINDICATIONS ( See also Boxed WARNING . )
Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Ketorolac tromethamine should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Severe , rarely fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients ( see , and , ) .
WARNINGSAnaphylactoid ReactionsPRECAUTIONSPreexisting Asthma Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery .
Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( see ) .
WARNINGS Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment or in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see for correction of volume depletion ) .
WARNINGS Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage .
Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , contraindicated in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding ( see and ) .
WARNINGSPRECAUTIONS Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving aspirin or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risks of inducing serious NSAID - related adverse events .
The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated .
The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and pentoxifylline is contraindicated .
WARNINGS ( See also . )
Boxed WARNING The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults .
Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are : Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and / or GI bleeding .
Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including bleeding , ulceration and perforation , of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine .
Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic .
Minor upper gastrointestinal problems , such as dyspepsia , are common and may also occur at any time during NSAID therapy .
The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with , ketorolac tromethamine .
Do not use ketorolac tromethamine for more than five days .
However , even short - term therapy is not without risk .
In addition to past history of ulcer disease , other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids , or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore , special care should be taken in treating this population .
Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
This should include discontinuation of ketorolac tromethamine until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out .
For high risk patients , alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration .
NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease ( ulcerative colitis , Crohn ' s disease ) as their condition may be exacerbated .
Hemorrhage Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well , use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders should be undertaken very cautiously , and those patients should be carefully monitored .
Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants ( e . g . , heparin or dicumarol derivatives ) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently ; therefore , physicians should administer such concomitant therapy only extremely cautiously .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis , including prophylactic low - dose heparin ( 2500 to 5000 units q12h ) , warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively , but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding .
Until data from such studies are available , physicians should carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only extremely cautiously .
Patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis should be monitored closely .
In postmarketing experience , postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the peri - operative use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine .
Therefore , peri - operative use of ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided and postoperative use be undertaken with caution when hemostasis is critical ( see ) .
PRECAUTIONS Renal Effects Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of a NSAID may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
Ketorolac tromethamine and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys , which , in patients with reduced creatinine clearance , will result in diminished clearance of the drug ( see ) .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function ( see ) and such patients should be followed closely .
With the use of ketorolac tromethamine , there have been reports of acute renal failure , interstitial nephritis and nephrotic syndrome .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Impaired Renal Function Ketorolac tromethamine contraindicated in patients with serum creatinine concentrations indicating advanced renal impairment ( see ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function or a history of kidney disease because it is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis .
Because patients with underlying renal insufficiency are at increased risk of developing acute renal decompensation or failure , the risks and benefits should be assessed prior to giving ketorolac tromethamine to these patients .
isCONTRAINDICATIONS Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without a known previous exposure or hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( see and , ) .
Anaphylactoid reactions , like anaphylaxis , may have a fatal outcome .
Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs .
CONTRAINDICATIONSPRECAUTIONSPreexisting Asthma Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Patients should be informed about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious GI events ( see ) .
Two large , controlled clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke ( see ) .
Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and PerforationCONTRAINDICATIONS Hypertension NSAIDs , including ketorolac tromethamine , can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
NSAIDs , including ketorolac tromethamine , should be used with caution in patients with hypertension .
Blood pressure ( BP ) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention , edema , retention of NaCl , oliguria , elevations of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine have been reported in clinical trials with ketorolac tromethamine .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used only very cautiously in patients with cardiac decompensation , hypertension or similar conditions .
Skin Reactions NSAIDs , including ketorolac tromethamine , can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash , mucosal lesions , or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
Pregnancy In late pregnancy , as with other NSAIDs , ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
PRECAUTIONS General Ketorolac tromethamine cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency .
Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation .
Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids .
The pharmacological activity of ketorolac tromethamine in reducing inflammation may diminish the utility of this diagnostic sign in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious , painful conditions .
Hepatic Effect Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or a history of liver disease .
Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15 % of patients taking NSAIDs including ketorolac tromethamine .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , may remain unchanged , or may be transient with continuing therapy .
Notable elevations of ALT or AST ( approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal ) have been reported in approximately 1 % of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs .
In addition , rare cases of severe hepatic reactions , including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis , liver necrosis and hepatic failure , some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported .
A patient with symptoms and / or signs suggesting liver dysfunction , or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred , should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with ketorolac tromethamine .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) , ketorolac tromethamine should be discontinued .
Hematologic Effect Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs , including ketorolac tromethamine .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs , including ketorolac tromethamine , should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia .
NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration , and reversible .
Patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants , should be carefully monitored .
Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal .
Since cross reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , ketorolac tromethamine should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
Information for Patients Ketorolac tromethamine is a potent NSAID and may cause serious side effects such as gastrointestinal bleeding or kidney failure , which may result in hospitalization and even fatal outcome .
Physicians , when prescribing ketorolac tromethamine , should inform their patients or their guardians of the potential risks of ketorolac tromethamine treatment ( see , , , and sections ) , instruct patients to seek medical advice if they develop treatment - related adverse events , and Boxed WARNINGWARNINGSPRECAUTIONSADVERSE REACTIONSadvise patients not to giveketorolac tromethamine tablets to other family members and to discard any unused drug .
Remember that the total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults .
Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
Patients should be informed of the following information before initiating therapy with an NSAID and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy .
Patients should also be encouraged to read the NSAID Medication Guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed .
• Ketorolac tromethamine , like other NSAIDs , may cause serious CV side effects , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up ( see , ) .
WARNINGSCardiovascular Effects • Ketorolac tromethamine , like other NSAIDs , can cause GI discomfort and rarely , serious GI side effects , such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up ( see , ) .
WARNINGSGastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation • Ketorolac tromethamine , like other NSAIDs , can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , SJS , and TEN , which may result in hospitalizations and even death .
Although serious skin reactions may occur without warning , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms .
Patients should be advised to stop the drug immediately if they develop any type of rash and contact their physicians as soon as possible .
• Patients should promptly report signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema to their physicians .
• Patients should be informed of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If these occur , patients should be instructed to stop therapy and seek immediate medical therapy .
• Patients should be informed of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . , difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
If these occur , patients should be instructed to seek immediate emergency help ( see ) .
WARNINGS • In late pregnancy , as with other NSAIDs , ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided because it will cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
Laboratory Tests Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding .
Patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs , should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop , systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , ketorolac tromethamine should be discontinued .
Drug Interactions Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein ( mean 99 . 2 % ) .
There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac tromethamine induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs .
Warfarin , Digoxin , Salicylate , and Heparin The binding of to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine ( 99 . 5 % control vs 99 . 3 % ) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg / mL .
Ketorolac does not alter protein binding .
studies indicate that , at therapeutic concentrations of ( 300 mcg / mL ) , the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99 . 2 % to 97 . 5 % , representing a potential twofold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels .
Therapeutic concentrations of , , , , , , and did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding .
in vitrowarfarindigoxinIn vitrosalicylatedigoxinwarfarinibuprofennaproxenpiroxicamacetaminophenphenytointolbutamide In a study involving 12 adult volunteers , ketorolac tromethamine tablets were coadministered with a single dose of 25 mg , causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin .
In another study , ketorolac tromethamine dosed IV or IM was given with two doses of 5000 U of to 11 healthy volunteers , resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6 . 4 minutes ( 3 . 2 to 11 . 4 min ) compared to a mean of 6 minutes ( 3 . 4 to 7 . 5 min ) for heparin alone and 5 . 1 minutes ( 3 . 5 to 8 . 5 min ) for placebo .
Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and warfarin or heparin , the administration of ketorolac tromethamine to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously , and patients should be closely monitored ( see and , ) .
warfarinheparinWARNINGSPRECAUTIONSHematologic Effect The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs , in general , on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than the users of either drug alone .
Aspirin When ketorolac tromethamine is administered with aspirin , its protein binding is reduced , although the clearance of free ketorolac tromethamine is not altered .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects .
Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as postmarketing observations , have shown that ketorolac tromethamine can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs , the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure ( see , ) , as well as to assure diuretic efficacy .
WARNINGSRenal Effects Probenecid Concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and resulted in decreased clearance and volume of distribution of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels ( total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5 . 4 to 17 . 8 mcg / h / mL ) and terminal half - life increased approximately twofold from 6 . 6 to 15 . 1 hours .
Therefore , concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated .
probenecid Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID .
Thus , when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently , subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
ACE Inhibitors / Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists Concomitant use of may increase the risk of renal impairment , particularly in volume - depleted patients .
ACE inhibitorsand / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors and / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists .
This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors and / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists .
Antiepileptic Drugs Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and ( phenytoin , carbamazepine ) .
antiepileptic drugs Psychoactive Drugs Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac tromethamine was used in patients taking ( fluoxetine , thiothixene , alprazolam ) .
psychoactive drugs Pentoxifylline When ketorolac tromethamine is administered concurrently with pentoxifylline , there is an increased tendency to bleeding .
Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and that resulted in apnea .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied .
IV / IMnondepolarizing muscle relaxants Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ( SSRIs ) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) are combined with NSAIDs .
Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility An 18 month study in mice with oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended IM or IV dose of 30 mg qid , based on area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve [ AUC ] ) , and a 24 month study in rats at 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times the human AUC ) showed no evidence of tumorigenicity .
Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test , unscheduled DNA synthesis and repair , and in forward mutation assays .
Ketorolac tromethamine did not cause chromosome breakage in the mouse micronucleus assay .
At 1590 mcg / mL and at higher concentrations , ketorolac tromethamine increased the incidence of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovarian cells .
in vivo Impairment of fertility did not occur in male or female rats at oral doses of 9 mg / kg ( 0 . 9 times the human AUC ) and 16 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 times the human AUC ) of ketorolac tromethamine , respectively .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Reproduction studies have been performed during organogenesis using daily oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 0 . 37 times the human AUC ) in rabbits and at 10 mg / kg ( 1 times the human AUC ) in rats .
Results of these studies did not reveal evidence of teratogenicity to the fetus .
However , animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
Nonteratogenic Effects Because of the known effects of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of ductus arteriosus ) , use during pregnancy ( particularly late pregnancy ) should be avoided .
Oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 1 . 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 14 times the human AUC ) , administered after gestation Day 17 , caused dystocia and higher pup mortality in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of ketorolac tromethamine in pregnant women .
Ketorolac tromethamine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery The use of ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage ( see ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Effects on Fertility The use of ketorolac tromethamine , as with any drug known to inhibit cyclooxygenase / prostaglandin synthesis , may impair fertility and is not recommended in women attempting to conceive .
In women who have difficulty conceiving or are undergoing investigation of infertility , withdrawal of ketorolac tromethamine should be considered .
Nursing Mothers Limited data from one published study involving 10 breastfeeding women 2 to 6 days postpartum showed low levels of ketorolac in breast milk .
Levels were undetectable ( less than 5 ng / mL ) in 4 of the patients .
After a single administration of 10 mg of ketorolac tromethamine tablets , the maximum milk concentration observed was 7 . 3 ng / mL , and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 037 .
After 1 day of dosing ( 10 mg every 6 hours ) , the maximum milk concentration was 7 . 9 ng / mL , and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 025 .
Assuming a daily intake of 400 to 1 , 000 mL of human milk per day and a maternal body weight of 60 kg , the calculated maximum daily infant exposure was 0 . 00263 mg / kg / day , which is 0 . 4 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dose .
Exercise caution when ketorolac is administered to a nursing woman .
Available information has not shown any specific adverse events in nursing infants ; however , instruct patients to contact their infant ' s health care provider if they note any adverse events .
Pediatric Use Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in pediatric patients below the age of 17 have not been established .
Geriatric Use ( ≥ 65 Years of Age ) Because ketorolac tromethamine may be cleared more slowly by the elderly ( see ) who are also more sensitive to the dose - related adverse effects of NSAIDs ( see , ) , extreme caution , reduced dosages ( see ) , and careful clinical monitoring must be used when treating the elderly with ketorolac tromethamine .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYWARNINGSGastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and PerforationDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac tromethamine .
Practitioners should be alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac tromethamine , such as GI ulceration , bleeding and perforation , postoperative bleeding , acute renal failure , anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions and liver failure ( see , , , and ) .
These NSAID - related complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac tromethamine is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately .
Boxed WARNINGWARNINGSPRECAUTIONSDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In patients taking ketorolac tromethamine or other NSAIDs in clinical trials , the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 % to 10 % of patients are : Gastrointestinal ( GI ) experiences including : abdominal pain * constipation / diarrhea dyspepsia * flatulence GI fullness GI ulcers ( gastric / duodenal ) gross bleeding / perforation heartburn nausea * stomatitis vomiting Other experiences : abnormal renal function anemia dizziness drowsiness edema elevated liver enzymes headaches * hypertension increased bleeding time injection site pain pruritus purpura rashes tinnitus sweating Incidence greater than 10 % * Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally ( < 1 % in patients taking ketorolac tromethamine or other NSAIDs in clinical trials ) include : fever , infections , sepsis Body as a Whole : congestive heart failure , palpitation , pallor , tachycardia , syncope Cardiovascular : alopecia , photosensitivity , urticaria Dermatologic : anorexia , dry mouth , eructation , esophagitis , excessive thirst , gastritis , glossitis , hematemesis , hepatitis , increased appetite , jaundice , melena , rectal bleeding Gastrointestinal : ecchymosis , eosinophilia , epistaxis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic : weight change Metabolic and Nutritional : abnormal dreams , abnormal thinking , anxiety , asthenia , confusion , depression , euphoria , extrapyramidal symptoms , hallucinations , hyperkinesis , inability to concentrate , insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence , stupor , tremors , vertigo , malaise Nervous System : infertility Reproductive , female : asthma , cough , dyspnea , pulmonary edema , rhinitis Respiratory : abnormal taste , abnormal vision , blurred vision , hearing loss Special Senses : cystitis , dysuria , hematuria , increased urinary frequency , interstitial nephritis , oliguria / polyuria , proteinuria , renal failure , urinary retention Urogenital : Other rarely observed reactions ( reported from postmarketing experience in patients taking ketorolac tromethamine or other NSAIDs ) are : angioedema , death , hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reaction , laryngeal edema , tongue edema ( see ) , myalgia Body as a Whole : WARNINGS arrhythmia , bradycardia , chest pain , flushing , hypotension , myocardial infarction , vasculitis Cardiovascular : exfoliative dermatitis , erythema multiforme , Lyell ’ s syndrome , bullous reactions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis Dermatologic : acute pancreatitis , liver failure , ulcerative stomatitis , exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease ( ulcerative colitis , Crohn ' s disease ) Gastrointestinal : agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , lymphadenopathy , pancytopenia , postoperative wound hemorrhage ( rarely requiring blood transfusion - see , , and ) Hemic and Lymphatic : BoxedWARNINGWARNINGSPRECAUTIONS hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , hyponatremia Metabolic and Nutritional : aseptic meningitis , convulsions , coma , psychosis Nervous System : bronchospasm , respiratory depression , pneumonia Respiratory : conjunctivitis Special Senses : flank pain with or without hematuria and / or azotemia , hemolytic uremic syndrome Urogenital : Postmarketing Surveillance Study A large postmarketing observational , nonrandomized study , involving approximately 10 , 000 patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine , demonstrated that the risk of clinically serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding was dose - dependent ( see and ) .
This was particularly true in elderly patients who received an average daily dose greater than 60 mg / day of ketorolac tromethamine ( see ) .
IV / IMTables 3A3BIV / IMTable 3 A Table 3 : Incidence of Clinically Serious GI Bleeding as Related to Age , Total Daily Dose , and History of GI Perforation , Ulcer , Bleeding ( PUB ) After up to 5 Days of Treatment With Ketorolac Tromethamine IV / IMA .
Adult Patients Without History of PUB Age of Patients Total Daily Dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine IV / IM ≤ 60 mg > 60 to 90 mg > 90 to 120 mg > 120 mg < 65 years of age 0 . 4 % 0 . 4 % 0 . 9 % 4 . 6 % ≥ 65 years of age 1 . 2 % 2 . 8 % 2 . 2 % 7 . 7 % B . Adult Patients With History of PUB Age of Patients Total Daily Dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine IV / IM ≤ 60 mg > 60 to 90 mg > 90 to 120 mg > 120 mg < 65 years of age 2 . 1 % 4 . 6 % 7 . 8 % 15 . 4 % ≥ 65 years of age 4 . 7 % 3 . 7 % 2 . 8 % 25 % OVERDOSAGE Symptoms and Signs Symptoms following acute NSAID overdoses are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression and coma may occur , but are rare .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs , and may occur following an overdose .
Treatment Patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care following a NSAIDs overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Emesis and / or activated charcoal ( 60 g to 100 g in adults , 1 g / kg to 2 g / kg in children ) and / or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large oral overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
Forced diuresis , alkalization of urine , hemodialysis or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
Single overdoses of ketorolac tromethamine have been variously associated with abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , hyperventilation , peptic ulcers and / or erosive gastritis and renal dysfunction which have resolved after discontinuation of dosing .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine tablets .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals .
In adults , the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days .
In adults , the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets is only indicated as continuation therapy to IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine .
Transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine ( single - or multiple - dose ) to multiple - dose ketorolac tromethamine tablets : Patients age 17 to 64 : 20 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg / day Patients age ≥ 65 , renally impaired , and / or weight < 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) : 10 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg / day Note : should be given .
Oral formulationnotas an initial dose for the individual patient .
Use minimum effective dose Do of 4 to 6 hours .
not shorten dosing interval the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days .
Total duration of treatment in adult patients : The following table summarizes ketorolac tromethamine tablet dosing instructions in terms of age group : Table 4 : Summary of Dosing InstructionsPatient Population Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets ( following IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine ) Age < 17 years Oral not approved Adult Age 17 to 64 years 20 mg once , then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg / day Adult Age ≥ 65 years , renally impaired , and / or weight < 50 kg 10 mg once , then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg / day HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 0098 - 0 in a BOTTLE of 1 TABLET , FILM COATEDS ) Medication Guide for Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs Rx only ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
This chance increases : NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
• with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a " coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . "
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called “ corticosteroids ” and “ anticoagulants ” • longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant .
NSAID medicines should not be used by pregnant women late in their pregnancy .
• if you are breastfeeding .
.
Talk to your doctor What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious Side effects include : Other side effects include : • heart attack • stomach pain • stroke • constipation • high blood pressure • diarrhea • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • gas • heartburn • kidney problems including kidney failure • nausea • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • vomiting • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • dizziness • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • weakness in one part or side of your body • slurred speech • swelling of the face or throat Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
NSAID medicines that need a prescriptionGeneric Name Tradename Celecoxib Celebrex Diclofenac Cataflam , Voltaren , Arthrotec ( combined with misoprostol ) Diflunisal Dolobid Etodolac Lodine , Lodine XL Fenoprofen Nalfon , Nalfon 200 Flurbiprofen Ansaid Ibuprofen Motrin , Tab - Profen , Vicoprofen ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ( combined with oxycodone ) [ 1 ] Indomethacin Indocin , Indocin SR , Indo - Lemmon , Indomethagan Ketoprofen Oruvail Ketorolac Toradol Mefenamic Acid Ponstel Meloxicam Mobic Nabumetone Relafen Naproxen Naprosyn , Anaprox , Anaprox DS , EC - Naprosyn , Naprelan , Naprapac ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaprozin Daypro Piroxicam Feldene Sulindac Clinoril Tolmetin Tolectin , Tolectin DS , Tolectin 600 [ 1 ] Vicoprofen contains the same dose of ibuprofen as over - the - counter ( OTC ) NSAIDs , and is usually used for less than 10 days to treat pain .
The OTC NSAID label warns that long term continuous use may increase the risk of heart attack or stroke .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured By : Sellersville , PA 18960 TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Rev . B 7 / 2009 Ketorolac Tromethamine 10 MG TAB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
