Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % , Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow { the rinse } children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol ( 21 . 6 % ) , sorbitol , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , zinc chloride , sodium benzoate , sucralose , sodium saccharin , green 3 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributer of Listerine Ultraclean With Everfresh Technology Antiseptic - Cool Mint .
Distributed by : Vi - Jon , LLC 8515 Page Ave . St . Louis , MO 63114 DSP - TN - 21091 DSP - MO - 20087 Principal Panel Display Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection swan TARTAR CONTROL PLUS ANTISEPTIC Mouth Rinse ANTIGINGIVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE blue mint Kills Germs that Couse Bad Breath , Plaque & the Gum Disease Gingivitis Compare to Listerine Ultraclean With Everfresh Technology Cool Mint 1 LITER ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
