Topical Anesthetic Rx only DESCRIPTION Contains lidocaine HCl 3 % .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Lidocaine HCl 3 % Lotion contains ACTIVE : Lidocaine HCl 30 mg in a lotion base of INACTIVES : aluminum sulfate , calcium acetate , cetyl alcohol , edetate disodium , glycerine , methylparaben , mineral oil , petrolatum , polysorbate 60 , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan stearate , stearic acid and stearyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MECHANISM OF ACTION Lidocaine HCl 3 % Lotion releases lidocaine which stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
PHARMACOKINETICS Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 - 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / ml have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS Pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue treatment and institute appropriate therapy .
Lidocaine HCl 3 % Lotion should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
METHEMOGLOBINEMIA Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidocaine 3 % Lotion and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxvurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenvtoin , sodium valoroate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Dosage in pediatric patients would be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or maybe the locus of abnormal sensation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected area 1 - 3 times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine HCl 3 % Lotion is supplied in the following size : SIZE NDC # 6 oz .
( 177 mL ) Bottle 73247 - 391 - 06 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safe and effective , and this labeling has not been approved by FDA .
Mfg . for & Distributed by : Bodysphere , LLC , Las Vegas , NV 89120 For Customer Service or Adverse Reactions : 1 - 866 - 660 - 2626 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 ml Bottle Label NDC 73247 - 0391 - 06 Rx Only Zionodil Lidocaine HCL 3 % External Lotion Topical Anesthetic Smooth Easily Spreadable Net Wt .
6 oz ( 177 ml ) BODYSPHERE + MADE IN USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
