Active ingredient Colloidal Oatmeal 1 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to : • • Eczema • • Rashes Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • • do not get into eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • conditions worsens • • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply as needed Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , distearyldimonium chloride , isopropyl palmitate , cetearyl alcohol , petrolatum , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel flour , dimethicone , steareth - 21 , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , benzalkonium chloride , sodium chloride , ceramide 3 , ceramide 6 - II , ceramide 1 , phytosphingosine , cholesterol , sodium lauroyl lactylate , carbomer , xanthan gum , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel oil , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel extract , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Well Beginnings ™ BABY ECZEMA CREAM NATURAL OATMEAL eases dry and itchy skin steroid & fragrance free dermatologist tested NET WT 5 OZ ( 140 g ) * Compare to Aveeno ® Baby ® Eczema Cream There ’ s no better place to start than the beginning and there ’ s no better way to start than with Well Beginnings ™ .
Enriched with soothing oatmeal , this innovative cream offers relief to help care for dry , itchy skin , while intensely moisturizing it .
It helps to fortify the skin ' s natural barrier functions while helping to prevent the recurrence of dry skin .
The formula is enriched with ceramides , essential lipids naturally found in the skin , to enhance and restore the skin ' s natural protective function .
DISTRIBUTED BY / DISTRIBUIDO POR : WALGREEN CO . 200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED walgreens . com © 2014 Walgreen Co .
MANUFACTURED IN ISRAEL * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® , owner of the registered trademark Aveeno ® Baby ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
