Dear Medical Professional , Per your order , we have compounded I - 131 in Mini Cap form .
The characteristics of this compound are : DESCRIPTION Sodium Iodide I - 131 ( NaI - 131 ) for therapeutic use is supplied for oral administration in small opaque white gelatin capsules , inside a blue and clear outer capsule .
Each I - 131 mini capsule is available in strengths ranging from ( 0 . 1 – 150 mCi ) at the time of calibration .
Iodine 131 decays by beta emission and associated gamma emission with a physical half - life of 8 . 04 days .
Sodium Iodide I - 131 Mini Capsules are compounded by absorbing a solution of carrier - free sodium iodide I - 131 into inert filler .
The iodine 131 utilized in the preparation of the capsules contains not less than 99 % Iodine - 131 at the time of calibration .
Gelatin capsules are compounded per prescription requirements using high specific concentration I - 131 , allowing higher iodine activity in a small easy to swallow high activity capsule size .
Capsules are formulated to rapidly dissolve in saline solution , to allow use for oral solution administration when clinically necessary .
CONTRAINDICATIONS AND ADVERSE REACTIONS Radioiodine is excreted in human milk during lactation ; breast feeding must be substituted during and following dose administration .
Sodium Iodide 131 is not usually used for treatment of hyperthyroidism in patients under 30 years of age .
Reactions to administration are rare ; however potential side effects such as radiation sickness and bone marrow depression , acute leukemia , anemia , chromosomal abnormalities , acute thyroid crisis , blood dyscrasia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and death represent potential side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Anti - thyroid therapy of a severely hyperthyroid patient is usually discontinued three to four days before administration of radioiodide .
For hyperthyroidism , the usual dose range is 4 to 10 mCi .
Toxic nodular goiter and other special situations will require the use of larger doses .
For thyroid carcinoma , 50 mCi is the usual dose for ablation of normal thyroid tissue , and 100 to 150 mCi is the usual subsequent therapeutic dose .
Waterproof gloves should be used during the entire handling and administration procedure .
Adequate shielding must be maintained .
CLINICAL UTILITY Most patients with thyroid disease present with a thyroid nodule .
Tools utilized to assess thyroid nodules and to rule out thyroid cancer include : serum thyroid function tests ( TSH and thyroid hormone level ) , thyroid ultrasound ( US ) , radionuclide scintigraphy ( low activity I - 131 , I - 123 and / or Tc99m ) , and fine needle aspiration ( FNA ) for cytology ( cells ) examination .
High thyroid hormone levels ( T4 or T3 ) and a low TSH level may indicate a nodule is a benign hyperfunctioning nodule ( adenoma ) , thereby tending to rule out thyroid cancer .
In such cases , thyroid imaging ( US or scintigraphy ) determines whether the nodule is hyperfunctioning whereas thyroid cancers appear under - functioning or “ cold ” on the scan .
Graves ’ disease and Hashimotos ’ thyroiditis represent thyroid diseases which occur in children who have autoimmune thyroid disease .
In these patients , abnormal thyroid function tests reflect underlying thyroid disease but do not exclude thyroid cancer .
The administration of radioiodine has proved to be an excellent method of destruction of over functioning thyroid tissue ( either diffuse or toxic nodular goiter ) .
Radioiodine is concentrated in the thyroid , destroying cells that concentrate it .
Surgical removal is the treatment of choice for thyroid carcinomas .
At 2 to 4 months post surgery , a whole - body I - 131 scan is performed following cessation of thyroxin drug for 4 - 6 weeks prior to the scan , thereby causing hypothyroidism ; TSH then rises and stimulates iodide uptake .
Iodine - containing foods and contrast media are avoided .
Patients with significant I - 131 uptake are given ablative ( 100 - 150 mCi ) doses of I - 131 .
For minimal uptake , doses of 30 - 50 mCi I - 131 are given on an outpatient basis .
Patients with extra thyroidal uptake from metastatic disease may be given larger doses of greater than 100 mCi .
I - 131 THERAPY CAPSULE MARKET BACKGROUND I - 131 Therapy Capsule formulations provide an enhanced safety profile for nuclear medicine professionals .
Oral solutions raise the risk for spills during administration in addition to the not uncommon scenario where very ill patients reject oral solution treatment ; whereupon vomiting episodes create large areas of high level radiation spill .
Oral solutions , however , are sold at deep discounts as compared to Therapy Capsules .
While many U . S . facilities have moved to adopt ALARA recommendations to reduce radiation exposure to healthcare workers which reasonably include routinely ordering encapsulated high activity I - 131 ; the scenario also exists that the intended patient may not be able to swallow the Therapy Capsule for reasons including : the large size of competitive suppliers , as well as intubated , quadriplegia and / or severe swallowing difficulties .
In these instances , it is particularly beneficial to have the ability to dissolve the capsule so that the patient may be treated on the same day , without having to order additional preparation .
Thank you , AnazaoHealth Corporation PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
