1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paricalcitol Injection is an active vitamin D2 analogue indicated for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) Stage 5 .
Paricalcitol Injection is an active vitamin D2 analog indicated for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney disease Stage 5 .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use through hemodialysis vascular access port only .
The recommended starting dose of Paricalcitol Injection is 0 . 04 mcg / kg to 0 . 1 mcg / kg ( 2 . 8 – 7 mcg ) administered through a hemodialysis vascular access port as a bolus dose at any time during dialysis .
Dosing should not occur more frequently than every other day .
The drug product should not be injected directly into a vein .
Dosage should be individualized .
If a satisfactory parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) lowering response is not observed using the recommended starting dose , the dose may be increased by 2 to 4 mcg every 2 to 4 weeks based on PTH levels ( refer to Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Suggested Dosage AdjustmentPTH Level at Follow - up Visit Dosage Adjustment Above target and PTH increased Increase Above target and PTH decreased by less than 30 % Increase Above target and PTH decreased by 30 to 60 % No Change Above target and PTH decreased by more than 60 % Decrease At target and PTH stable No Change When initiating Paricalcitol Injection or adjusting Paricalcitol Injection dose , measure serum calcium and phosphorus frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) and PTH every 2 to 4 weeks .
Once a maintenance dose has been established , serum calcium and phosphorus should be measured at least monthly and plasma PTH every 3 months .
• The recommended starting dose is 0 . 04 mcg / kg to 0 . 1 mcg / kg ( 2 . 8 – 7 mcg ) .
• Administer Paricalcitol Injection as a bolus through a hemodialysis vascular access port at any time during dialysis .
Dosing should not occur more frequently than every other day .
• Do not inject Paricalcitol Injection directly into a vein .
• Paricalcitol Injection dose should be individualized .
If a satisfactory PTH lowering response is not observed with the initial dose , the dose may be increased by 2 to 4 mcg at 2 - to 4 - week intervals based on parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels .
( 2 ) Suggested Dosage Adjustment PTH Level at Follow - up Visit Dosage Adjustment Above target and PTH increased Increase Above target and PTH decreased by less than 30 % Increase Above target and PTH decreased by 30 to 60 % No Change Above target and PTH decreased by more than 60 % Decrease At target and PTH stable No Change 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Paricalcitol Injection is available in the following presentations : • 2 mcg per mL single dose vial • 5 mcg per mL single dose vial • 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg per mL ) multiple dose vial Paricalcitol Injection is available in the following presentations : 2 mcg per mL single dose vial , 5 mcg per mL single dose vial , 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg per mL ) multiple dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paricalcitol Injection is contraindicated in patients with evidence of : • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vitamin D toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] or • Hypersensitivity to paricalcitol or any inactive ingredient in this product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] Evidence of hypercalcemia , vitamin D toxicity or hypersensitivity .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercalcemia : The risk may be increased when Paricalcitol Injection is used concomitantly with high dose calcium preparations , thiazide diuretics , or metabolically inactive or active forms of vitamin D . Monitor serum calcium when using Paricalcitol Injection and adjust dose accordingly .
( 5 . 1 ) • Digitalis Toxicity : Hypercalcemia increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using Paricalcitol Injection concomitantly with digitalis compounds , monitor both serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity and increase frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of Paricalcitol Injection .
( 5 . 2 ) • Risk of Increased Paricalcitol Levels With Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Use of Paricalcitol Injection with strong CYP3A inhibitors increases the concentration of paricalcitol in the blood .
In patients on Paricalcitol Injection who are initiating or discontinuing drugs known to be strong CYP3A inhibitors , monitor serum calcium and PTH more frequently and adjust Paricalcitol Injection dose as required .
( 5 . 3 ) • Adynamic Bone Disease : May develop if PTH levels are suppressed to abnormally low levels .
Monitor PTH levels and adjust Paricalcitol Injection accordingly .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia may occur during Paricalcitol Injection treatment and may be exacerbated by concomitant administration of high doses of calcium containing preparations , thiazide diuretics , or vitamin D ( i . e . , all forms ) .
Acute hypercalcemia may exacerbate tendencies for cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the effect of digitalis on the heart .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Hypercalcemia may be so severe as to require emergency attention .
High intake of calcium and phosphate concomitantly with vitamin D compounds may lead to hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hyperphosphatemia .
Prevention of such adverse reactions requires frequent serum calcium monitoring and careful Paricalcitol Injection dose adjustments .
Concomitant use with other active vitamin D analogues should be avoided during Paricalcitol Injection treatment to prevent hypercalcemia .
Patients also should be informed about the symptoms of elevated calcium , which include feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss .
5 . 2 Digitalis Toxicity Hypercalcemia of any cause increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using Paricalcitol Injection concomitantly with digitalis compounds , monitor both serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity and increase frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of Paricalcitol Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Increased Paricalcitol Levels With Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of Paricalcitol Injection with strong CYP3A inhibitors will increase the levels of paricalcitol in the blood .
In patients on Paricalcitol Injection who are initiating or discontinuing therapy with drugs known to be strong CYP3A inhibitors , monitor serum calcium and PTH more frequently and adjust Paricalcitol Injection dose as required [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Adynamic Bone Disease Adynamic bone disease with subsequent increased risk of fractures may develop if PTH levels are suppressed to abnormally low levels .
Monitor PTH levels and adjust Paricalcitol Injection dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( greater than 5 % and more frequent than placebo ) include nausea , vomiting and edema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 - 233 - 2001 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Safety has been evaluated in clinical studies conducted with another paricalcitol injection product in 609 patients with CKD Stage 5 .
In four , placebo - controlled , double - blind , multicenter studies , discontinuation of therapy due to any adverse event occurred in 6 . 5 % of 62 patients treated with paricalcitol injection ( dosage titrated as tolerated , [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] ) and 2 % of 51 patients treated with placebo for 1 to 3 months .
Adverse reactions occurring with greater frequency in the paricalcitol group and at a frequency of 2 % or greater are presented in the following table : Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring at a Rate [ 1 ] of 2 % or Greater in CKD Stage 5 Patients in Four Placebo - Controlled StudiesAdverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 51 ) % Paricalcitol Injection ( n = 62 ) % Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 0 . 0 3 . 2 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 7 . 8 12 . 9 Vomiting 5 . 9 8 . 1 Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage 2 . 0 4 . 8 Dry Mouth 2 . 0 3 . 2 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Edema 0 . 0 6 . 5 Chills 2 . 0 4 . 8 Pyrexia 2 . 0 4 . 8 Malaise 0 . 0 3 . 2 Infections and Infestations Pneumonia 0 . 0 4 . 8 Sepsis 2 . 0 4 . 8 Influenza 3 . 9 4 . 8 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 3 . 9 4 . 8 [ 1 ] A patient who reported the same medical term more than once was counted only once for that medical term .
Specific laboratory parameters [ i . e . , changes in mean Calcium ( Ca ) , Phosphorus ( P ) , and Calcium Phosphorus product ( Ca × P ) ] were followed in an open - label safety study conducted with another paricalcitol injection product for up to 13 months in duration in this patient population and results are shown below [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Other Adverse Reactions Associated with Paricalcitol Injection Use The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 2 % of the paricalcitol - treated patients in the above mentioned double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trials and in additional double - blind , active - controlled and open - label studies : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Anemia , lymphadenopathy Cardiac Disorders : Arrhythmia , atrial flutter , cardiac arrest Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Ear discomfort Endocrine Disorders : Hypoparathyroidism Eye Disorders : Conjunctivitis , glaucoma , ocular hyperemia Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal discomfort , constipation , diarrhea , dysphagia , gastritis , intestinal ischemia , rectal hemorrhage General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Asthenia , chest discomfort , chest pain , condition aggravated , edema peripheral , fatigue , feeling abnormal , gait disturbance , injection site extravasation , injection site pain , pain , swelling , thirst Infections and Infestations : Nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , vaginal infection Laboratory Investigations and Vital Signs : Increased aspartate aminotransferase , prolonged bleeding time , irregular heart rate , decreased weight Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Decreased appetite , hypercalcemia , hyperkalemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Joint stiffness , muscle twitching , myalgia Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified : Breast cancer Nervous System Disorders : Cerebrovascular accident , dizziness , dysgeusia , headache , hypoesthesia , myoclonus , paresthesia , syncope , unresponsive to stimuli Psychiatric Disorders : Agitation , confusional state , delirium , insomnia , nervousness , restlessness Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Breast pain , erectile dysfunction Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Cough , dyspnea , orthopnea , pulmonary edema , wheezing Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , blister , hirsutism , night sweats , rash pruritic , pruritus , skin burning sensation Vascular Disorders : Hypertension , hypotension 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of another paricalcitol injection product .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Allergic reactions including rash , urticaria , and angioedema ( including laryngeal edema ) have been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co - administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . ketoconazole ) increases paricalcitol blood levels .
See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Paricalcitol is partially metabolized by CYP3A .
Paricalcitol blood levels will be increased when paricalcitol is co - administered with strong CYP3A inhibitors .
If a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong CYP3A inhibitor , monitor both PTH and serum calcium more frequently and adjust Paricalcitol Injection dose as required [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : A decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Paricalcitol has been shown to cause minimal decreases in fetal viability ( 5 % ) when administered daily to rabbits at a dose 0 . 5 times the 0 . 24 mcg / kg human dose ( based on surface area , mg / m2 ) and when administered to rats at a dose 2 times the 0 . 24 mcg / kg human dose ( based on plasma levels of exposure ) .
At the highest dose tested ( 20 mcg / kg 3 times per week in rats , 13 times the 0 . 24 mcg / kg human dose based on surface area ) , there was a significant increase of the mortality of newborn rats at doses that were maternally toxic ( hypercalcemia ) .
No other effects on offspring development were observed .
Paricalcitol was not teratogenic at the doses tested .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Paricalcitol Injection should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Studies in rats have shown that paricalcitol is present in the milk .
It is not known whether paricalcitol is excreted in human milk .
In the nursing patient , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of paricalcitol injection were examined with another paricalcitol injection product in a 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of 29 pediatric patients , aged 5 - 19 years , with end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis and nearly all had received some form of vitamin D prior to the study .
Seventy - six percent of the patients were male , 52 % were Caucasian and 45 % were African - American .
The initial dose of paricalcitol injection was 0 . 04 mcg / kg 3 times per week based on baseline iPTH level of less than 500 pg / mL , or 0 . 08 mcg / kg 3 times a week , based on baseline iPTH level of ≥ 500 pg / mL , respectively .
The dose of paricalcitol injection was adjusted in 0 . 04 mcg / kg increments based on the levels of serum iPTH , calcium and Ca x P .
The mean baseline levels of iPTH were 841 pg / mL for the 15 paricalcitol injection - treated patients and 740 pg / mL for the 14 placebo - treated subjects .
The mean dose of paricalcitol injection administered was 4 . 6 mcg ( range : 0 . 8 mcg - 9 . 6 mcg ) .
Ten of the 15 ( 67 % ) paricalcitol injection - treated patients and 2 of the 14 ( 14 % ) placebo - treated patients completed the trial .
Ten of the placebo patients ( 71 % ) were discontinued due to excessive elevations in iPTH levels as defined by 2 consecutive iPTH levels > 700 pg / mL and greater than baseline after 4 weeks of treatment .
In the primary efficacy analysis , 9 of 15 ( 60 % ) subjects in the paricalcitol injection group had 2 consecutive 30 % decreases from baseline iPTH compared with 3 of 14 ( 21 % ) patients in the placebo group ( 95 % CI for the difference between groups - 1 % , 63 % ) .
Twenty - three percent of paricalcitol injection vs . 31 % of placebo patients had at least one serum calcium level > 10 . 3 mg / dL and 40 % vs . 14 % of paricalcitol injection vs . placebo subjects had at least one Ca x P ion product > 72 ( mg / dL ) 2 .
The overall percentage of serum calcium measurements > 10 . 3 mg / dL was 7 % in the paricalcitol injection group and 7 % in the placebo group ; the overall percentage of patients with Ca x P product > 72 ( mg / dL ) 2 was 8 % in the paricalcitol injection group and 7 % in the placebo group .
No subjects in either the paricalcitol injection group or placebo group developed hypercalcemia ( defined as at least one calcium value > 11 . 2 mg / dL ) during the study .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of paricalcitol injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of Paricalcitol Injection may lead to hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , hyperphosphatemia , and oversuppression of PTH resulting in adynamic bone disease .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
10 . 1 Treatment of Overdosage and Hypercalcemia The treatment of acute overdosage should consist of supportive measures , discontinuation of drug administration and supplemental calcium , institution of a low calcium diet .
Serum calcium levels should be measured until normocalcemia ensues .
When serum calcium levels have returned to within normal limits , Paricalcitol Injection may be reinitiated at a lower dose .
Paricalcitol is not significantly removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Paricalcitol , USP , the active ingredient in Paricalcitol Injection , is a synthetically manufactured active vitamin D2 analog .
It is a white powder chemically designated as 19 - nor - 1α , 3β , 25 - trihydroxy - 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 ( Z ) , 7 ( E ) , 22 ( E ) - triene and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Paricalcitol Injection is available as a sterile , clear , colorless , aqueous solution for intravenous injection .
Each mL contains paricalcitol 2 mcg or 5 mcg and the following inactive ingredients : alcohol , 35 % ( v / v ) and 70 % sorbitol solution 7 % ( v / v ) in water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Preclinical and in vitro studies have demonstrated that paricalcitol ' s biological actions are mediated through binding of the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , which results in the selective activation of vitamin D responsive pathways .
Vitamin D and paricalcitol have been shown to reduce parathyroid hormone levels by inhibiting PTH synthesis and secretion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Within two hours after administering paricalcitol intravenous doses ranging from 0 . 04 to 0 . 24 mcg / kg , concentrations of paricalcitol decreased rapidly ; thereafter , concentrations of paricalcitol declined log - linearly .
No accumulation of paricalcitol was observed with three times a week dosing .
Distribution : Paricalcitol is extensively bound to plasma proteins ( ≥ 99 . 8 % ) .
In healthy subjects , the steady state volume of distribution is approximately 23 . 8 L .
The mean apparent volume of distribution following a 0 . 24 mcg / kg dose of paricalcitol in CKD Stage 5 subjects requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is between 31 and 35 L . Metabolism : After intravenous administration of a 0 . 48 mcg / kg dose of 3 H - paricalcitol , parent drug was extensively metabolized , with only about 2 % of the dose eliminated unchanged in the feces and no parent drug found in the urine .
Several metabolites were detected in both the urine and feces .
Most of the systemic exposure was from the parent drug .
Two minor metabolites , relative to paricalcitol , were detected in human plasma .
One metabolite was identified as 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol , while the other metabolite was unidentified .
The 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol is less active than paricalcitol in an in vivo rat model of PTH suppression .
In vitro data suggest that paricalcitol is metabolized by multiple hepatic and non - hepatic enzymes , including mitochondrial CYP24 , as well as CYP3A4 and UGT1A4 .
The identified metabolites include the product of 24 ( R ) - hydroxylation ( present at low levels in plasma ) , as well as 24 , 26 - and 24 , 28 - dihydroxylation and direct glucuronidation .
Elimination : Paricalcitol is excreted primarily by hepatobiliary excretion .
Approximately 63 % of a radioactive dose was recovered in the feces and 19 % was recovered in the urine in healthy subjects .
In healthy subjects , the mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol is about five to seven hours over the studied dose range of 0 . 04 to 0 . 16 mcg / kg .
The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has been studied in CKD Stage 5 subjects requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) .
The mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol after administration of 0 . 24 mcg / kg paricalcitol intravenous bolus dose in CKD Stage 5 HD and PD patients is 13 . 9 and 15 . 4 hours , respectively ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Mean ± SD Paricalcitol Pharmacokinetic Parameters in CKD Stage 5 Subjects Following Single 0 . 24 mcg / kg Intravenous Bolus Dose CKD Stage 5 HD n = 14 CKD Stage 5 PD n = 8 Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1 . 680 ± 0 . 511 1 . 832 ± 0 . 315 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng • h / mL ) 14 . 51 ± 4 . 12 16 . 01 ± 5 . 98 β ( 1 / h ) 0 . 050 ± 0 . 023 0 . 045 ± 0 . 026 t1 / 2 ( h ) [ 1 ] 13 . 9 ± 7 . 3 15 . 4 ± 10 . 5 CL ( L / h ) 1 . 49 ± 0 . 60 1 . 54 ± 0 . 95 Vdβ ( L ) 30 . 8 ± 7 . 5 34 . 9 ± 9 . 5 [ 1 ] harmonic mean ± pseudo standard deviation , HD : hemodialysis , PD : peritoneal dialysis .
The degree of accumulation was consistent with the half - life and dosing frequency .
Specific Populations Geriatric : The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been investigated in geriatric patients greater than 65 years .
Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been investigated in patients less than 18 years of age .
Gender : The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol was gender independent .
Hepatic Impairment : The disposition of intravenous paricalcitol ( 0 . 24 mcg / kg ) was compared in patients with mild ( n = 5 ) and moderate ( n = 5 ) hepatic impairment ( as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) and subjects with normal hepatic function ( n = 10 ) .
The pharmacokinetics of unbound paricalcitol was similar across the range of hepatic function evaluated in this study .
No dosing adjustment is required in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
The influence of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been evaluated .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has been studied in CKD Stage 5 subjects requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) .
Hemodialysis procedure has essentially no effect on paricalcitol elimination .
However , compared to healthy subjects , CKD Stage 5 subjects showed a decreased CL and increased half - life .
Drug Interactions An in vitro study indicates that paricalcitol is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , or CYP3A at concentrations up to 50 nM ( 21 ng / mL ) ( approximately 20 - fold greater than that obtained after highest tested dose ) .
In fresh primary cultured hepatocytes , the induction observed at paricalcitol concentrations up to 50 nM was less than two - fold for CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 or CYP3A , where the positive controls rendered a six - to nineteen - fold induction .
Hence , paricalcitol is not expected to inhibit or induce the clearance of drugs metabolized by these enzymes .
Drug interactions with Paricalcitol Injection have not been studied .
The following studies have been performed with oral paricalcitol capsules .
Omeprazole The pharmacokinetic interaction between paricalcitol capsule ( 16 mcg ) and omeprazole ( 40 mg ; oral ) , a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19 , was investigated in a single dose , crossover study in healthy subjects .
The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol was unaffected when omeprazole was administrated approximately 2 hours prior to the paricalcitol dose .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Ketoconazole Although no data are available for the drug interaction between Paricalcitol Injection and ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A , the effect of multiple doses of ketoconazole administered as 200 mg BID for 5 days on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol capsule has been studied in healthy subjects .
The Cmax of paricalcitol was minimally affected , but AUC0 - ∞ approximately doubled in the presence of ketoconazole .
The mean half - life of paricalcitol was 17 . 0 hours in the presence of ketoconazole as compared to 9 . 8 hours , when paricalcitol was administered alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice conducted with paricalcitol , an increased incidence of uterine leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma was observed at subcutaneous doses of 1 , 3 , 10 mcg / kg ( 2 to 15 times the AUC at a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The incidence rate of uterine leiomyoma was significantly different than the control group at the highest dose of 10 mcg / kg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats conducted with paricalcitol , there was an increased incidence of benign adrenal pheochromocytoma at subcutaneous doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 mcg / kg ( < 1 to 7 times the exposure following a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The increased incidence of pheochromocytomas in rats may be related to the alteration of calcium homeostasis by paricalcitol .
Paricalcitol did not exhibit genetic toxicity in vitro with or without metabolic activation in the microbial mutagenesis assay ( Ames Assay ) , mouse lymphoma mutagenesis assay ( L5178Y ) , or a human lymphocyte cell chromosomal aberration assay .
There was also no evidence of genetic toxicity in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Paricalcitol had no effect on fertility ( male or female ) in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mcg / kg / dose [ equivalent to 13 times the highest recommended human dose ( 0 . 24 mcg / kg ) based on surface area , mg / m2 ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In three 12 - week , placebo - controlled , phase 3 studies conducted with another paricalcitol injection product in patients with Stage 5 chronic kidney disease on dialysis , the dose of paricalcitol was started at 0 . 04 mcg / kg 3 times per week .
The dose was increased by 0 . 04 mcg / kg every 2 weeks until intact parathyroid hormone ( iPTH ) levels were decreased at least 30 % from baseline , or a fifth escalation brought the dose to 0 . 24 mcg / kg , or iPTH fell to less than 100 pg / mL , or the Ca x P product was greater than 75 within any 2 week period , or serum calcium became greater than 11 . 5 mg / dL at any time .
Patients treated with paricalcitol achieved a mean iPTH reduction of 30 % within 6 weeks .
In these studies , there was no significant difference in the incidence of hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia between paricalcitol and placebo - treated patients .
The results from these studies are as follows : Table 4 : Mean Changes from Baseline to Final Evaluation in PTH , Alkaline Phosphatase , Phosphorus and Calcium x Phosphorus Product in CKD Stage 5 Patients in Three Placebo - Controlled , Phase 3 Studies Group ( No .
of Pts . )
Baseline Mean ( Range ) Mean ( SE ) Change From Baseline to Final Evaluation PTH ( pg / mL ) paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 783 ( 291 – 2076 ) - 379 ( 43 . 7 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 745 ( 320 – 1671 ) - 69 . 6 ( 44 . 8 ) Alkaline Phosphatase ( U / L ) paricalcitol ( n = 31 ) 150 ( 40 – 600 ) - 41 . 5 ( 10 . 6 ) placebo ( n = 34 ) 169 ( 56 – 911 ) + 2 . 6 ( 10 . 1 ) Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 5 . 8 ( 3 . 7 – 10 . 2 ) + 0 . 47 ( 0 . 3 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 6 . 0 ( 2 . 8 – 8 . 8 ) - 0 . 47 ( 0 . 3 ) Calcium x Phosphorus Product paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 54 ( 32 – 106 ) + 7 . 9 ( 2 . 2 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 54 ( 26 – 77 ) - 3 . 9 ( 2 . 3 ) A long - term , open - label safety study of 164 CKD Stage 5 patients conducted with another paricalcitol injection product ( mean dose of 7 . 5 mcg three times per week ) , demonstrated that mean serum Ca , P , and Ca x P remained within clinically appropriate ranges with PTH reduction ( mean decrease of 319 pg / mL at 13 months ) .
Figure 1 : Mean Values for Serum iPTH , Calcium and Phosphorus Over Time in CKD Stage 5 Patients in a Phase 3 Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Paricalcitol Injection is available in 2 mcg / mL single dose vials ( NDC 0143 - 9625 - 25 ) , 5 mcg / mL single dose vials ( NDC 0143 - 9624 - 25 ) and 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) multiple dose vials ( NDC 0143 - 9596 - 25 ) in cartons of 25 vials .
NDC Number Volume / Container Concentration Total Content Vial Type 0143 - 9625 - 25 1 mL / Fliptop Vial 2 mcg / mL 2 mcg Single Dose 0143 - 9624 - 25 1 mL / Fliptop Vial 5 mcg / mL 5 mcg Single Dose 0143 - 9596 - 25 2 mL / Fliptop Vial 5 mcg / mL 10 mcg Multiple Dose Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
After initial vial use , the contents of the multiple dose vial remain stable up to seven days when stored at controlled room temperature .
Discard unused portion of the single dose vial .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised : • of the most common adverse reactions with use of Paricalcitol Injection , which include nausea , vomiting and fluid retention .
• to adhere to instructions regarding diet and phosphorus restriction .
• to contact a health care provider if they develop symptoms of elevated calcium , ( e . g . feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) .
• to return to their dialysis clinic / health care provider ’ s office for routine monitoring .
More frequent monitoring is necessary during the initiation of therapy , following dose changes or when potentially interacting medications are started or discontinued .
• to inform their health care provider of all medications , including prescription and nonprescription drugs , supplements , and herbal preparations they are taking and any change to their medical condition .
Patients should also be advised to inform their health care provider prescribing a new medication that they are taking Paricalcitol Injection .
Manufactured by : Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 USA Distributed by : WEST - WARD PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA 9625 - 0415 - 00 April 2015 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9625 - 01 Rx only Paricalcitol Injection 2 mcg / mL Discard unused portion 1 mL Single Dose Vial For Intravenous Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9624 - 01 Rx only Paricalcitol Injection 5 mcg / mL Discard unused portion 1 mL Single Dose Vial For Intravenous Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9596 - 01 Rx only Paricalcitol Injection 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) 2 mL Multiple Dose Vial For Intravenous Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
