INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is indicated for the management of moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require around - the - clock treatment of their pain for an extended period of time .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION 2 . 1 General Dosing Considerations Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is an extended - release formulation intended for once a day dosing in adults aged 18 years and older .
The capsules must be swallowed whole with liquid and must not be split , chewed , dissolved or crushed .
Chewing , crushing , dissolving or splitting the capsule could result in the uncontrolled delivery of tramadol , in overdose and death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 11 ) , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 ) , AND OVERDOSE ( 10 . 1 ) ] .
Do not administer Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day .
Do not use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release more than once daily or concomitantly with other tramadol products [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
2 . 2 Patients Not Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products Initiate treatment with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release at a dose of 100 mg once daily and titrated up as necessary to 150 mg , 200 mg , and 300 mg every five days to achieve a balance between relief of pain and tolerability .
2 . 3 Patients Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products Calculate the 24 - hour tramadol IR dose and initiate a total daily dose of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release rounded down to the next lowest 100 mg dose .
The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need .
Due to limitations in flexibility of dose selection with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , some patients maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release .
2 . 4 Patients 65 Years of Age and Older Dosing of an elderly patient ( over 65 years of age ) should be initiated cautiously , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should be administered with even greater caution in patients over 75 years , due to the greater frequency of adverse events seen in this population .
2 . 5 Patients with Renal Impairment The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Do not use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release in patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 6 Patients with Hepatic Impairment The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Do not use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 7 Discontinuation of Treatment Withdrawal symptoms may occur if Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is discontinued abruptly .
Clinical experience with tramadol suggests that withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 10 ) and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 8 Food Effects Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may be taken without regard to food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is available in 150 mg capsules .
150 mg Capsules : White capsule imprinted with gold ink “ G 322 ” on cap and “ 150 ” between lines on the body CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is contraindicated in patients who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to tramadol , any other component of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , or opioids .
Reactions range from pruritis to fatal anaphylactoid reactions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is contraindicated in patients with significant respiratory depression in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is contraindicated in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercapnia in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SECTION 5 . 1 Seizure Risk Seizures have been reported in patients receiving tramadol within the recommended dosage range .
Spontaneous post - marketing reports indicate that seizure risk is increased with doses of tramadol above the recommended range .
Concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking : [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin - norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) antidepressants or anorectics , Tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , and other tricyclic compounds ( e . g . , cyclobenzaprine , promethazine , etc . ) , Other opioids , MAO inhibitors [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) ] , Neuroleptics , or Other drugs that reduce the seizure threshold .
Risk of seizures may also increase in patients with epilepsy , those with a history of seizures , or in patients with a recognized risk for seizure ( such as head trauma , metabolic disorders , alcohol and drug withdrawal , CNS infections ) .
In tramadol overdose , naloxone administration may increase the risk of seizure .
5 . 2 Suicide Risk Do not prescribe Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release for patients who are suicidal or addiction - prone .
Consideration should be given to the use of non - narcotic analgesics in patients who are suicidal or depressed [ see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 . 2 ) ] .
Prescribe Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with caution for patients with a history of misuse and / or are taking CNS - active drugs including tranquilizers or antidepressant drugs , or alcohol in excess , and patients who suffer from emotional disturbance or depression [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Tell your patients not to exceed the recommended dose and to limit their intake of alcohol [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome Risk The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with use of tramadol products , including Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , MAOIs and triptans , with drugs which impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) and with drugs which impair metabolism of tramadol ( CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors ) .
This may occur within the recommended dose .
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Serotonin syndrome may include mental - status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
5 . 4 Anaphylactoid Reactions Serious and rarely fatal anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with tramadol .
When these events do occur it is often following the first dose .
Other reported allergic reactions include pruritus , hives , bronchospasm , angioedema , toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Patients with a history of anaphylactoid reactions to codeine and other opioids may be at increased risk and therefore should not receive Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Respiratory Depression Administer Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release cautiously in patients at risk for respiratory depression .
In these patients alternative non - opioid analgesics should be considered .
If large doses of tramadol are administered with anesthetic medications or alcohol , respiratory depression may result .
Respiratory depression should be treated as an overdose .
If naloxone is to be administered , use cautiously because it may precipitate seizures [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) and OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 6 Interaction With Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants , Including Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Tramadol may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression .
Use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients receiving CNS depressants such as alcohol , opioids , anesthetic agents , narcotics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers or sedative hypnotics .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release increases the risk of CNS and respiratory depression in these patients .
Alcohol - containing beverages should not be consumed by patients using Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 4 ) , and OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 7 Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure or Head Trauma Use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with caution in patients with increased intracranial pressure or head injury .
The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure , and may be markedly exaggerated in these patients .
Additionally , pupillary changes ( miosis ) from tramadol may obscure the existence , extent , or course of intracranial pathology .
Clinicians should also maintain a high index of suspicion for adverse drug reaction when evaluating altered mental status in these patients if they are receiving Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 8 Use in Ambulatory Patients Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may impair the mental and or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Caution patients initiating therapy with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release or those whose dose has been increased to refrain from potentially hazardous activities until it is established that their mental and physical abilities are not significantly impaired .
5 . 9 Use With MAO Inhibitors and SSRIs Use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with great caution in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Animal studies have shown increased deaths with combined administration .
Concomitant use of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with MAO inhibitors or SSRI ’ s increases the risk of adverse reactions , including seizure and serotonin syndrome [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 10 Withdrawal Symptoms Withdrawal symptoms may occur if Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is discontinued abruptly .
These symptoms may include : anxiety , sweating , insomnia , rigors , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , piloerection , and rarely hallucinations .
Clinical experience with other formulations of tramadol suggests that withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release when discontinuing tramadol therapy .
5 . 11 Misuse , Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release contains tramadol , an opioid agonist of the morphine - type .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release could be abused by crushing , chewing , snorting , or injecting the dissolved product .
These practices will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the opioid and pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 12 ) , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 ) , and OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
Concerns about abuse , addiction , and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain .
The development of addiction to opioid analgesics in properly managed patients with pain has been reported to be rare .
However , data are not available to establish the true incidence of addiction in chronic pain patients .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board , or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
5 . 12 Risk of Overdosage Serious potential consequences of overdosage with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release are central nervous system depression , respiratory depression and death .
In treating an overdose , primary attention should be given to maintaining adequate ventilation along with general supportive treatment [ see OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 13 Acute Abdominal Conditions The administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may complicate the clinical assessment of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following serious or otherwise important adverse reactions are described in greater detail , in other sections : - Seizure risk [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] - Suicide risk [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] - Serotonin syndrome [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] - Anaphylactoid and allergic reactions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] - Respiratory depression [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] - Withdrawal symptoms [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 10 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules were administered to a total of 1987 patients in clinical trials .
These included four double - blind and one long - term , open - label study in patients with osteoarthritis of the hip and knee .
A total of 812 patients were 65 years or older .
Adverse reactions with doses from 100 mg to 300 mg in the four pooled , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in patients with chronic non - malignant pain are presented in the following table ( see Table1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following adverse reactions were reported from all chronic pain studies ( N = 1917 ) .
The lists below include adverse reactions not otherwise noted in Table 1 .
Adverse reactions with incidence rates of 1 . 0 % to < 5 . 0 % Cardiac disorders : hypertension Gastrointestinal disorders : dyspepsia , flatulence General disorders : abdominal pain , accidental injury , chills , fever , flu syndrome , neck pain , pelvic pain Investigations : hyperglycemia , urine abnormality Metabolism and nutrition disorders : peripheral edema , weight loss Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : myalgia Nervous system disorders : paresthesia , tremor , withdrawal syndrome Psychiatric disorders : agitation , anxiety , apathy , confusion , depersonalization , depression , euphoria , nervousness Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : bronchitis , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash Urogenital disorders : prostatic disorder , urinary tract infection Vascular disorders : vasodilatation Adverse reactions with incidence rates of 0 . 5 % to < 1 . 0 % at any dose and serious adverse reactions reported in at least two patients .
Cardiac disorders : EKG abnormal , hypotension , tachycardia Gastrointestinal disorders : gastroenteritis General disorders : neck rigidity , viral infection Hematologic / Lymphatic disorders : anemia , ecchymoses Metabolism and nutrition disorders : blood urea nitrogen increased , GGT increased , gout , SGPT increased Musculoskeletal disorders : arthritis , arthrosis , joint disorder , leg cramps Nervous system disorders : emotional lability , hyperkinesia , hypertonia , thinking abnormal , twitching , vertigo Respiratory disorders : pneumonia Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : hair disorder , skin disorder , urticaria Special Senses : eye disorder , lacrimation disorder Urogenital disorders : cystitis , dysuria , sexual function abnormality , urinary retention [ MULTIMEDIA ] DRUG INTERACTIONS SECTION 7 . 1 Drugs Affecting Seizure Threshold Concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking SSRI / SNRI antidepressants or anorectics , TCA antidepressants and other tricyclic compounds , other opioids , MAOIs , neuroleptics or other drugs that lower the seizure threshold [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2D6 and / or CYP3A4 inhibitors Tramadol is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form the active metabolite , O - desmethyl tramadol ( M1 ) .
In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine , paroxetine , and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol .
Tramadol is also metabolized by CYP3A4 [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure .
Concomitant administration of CYP2D6 and / or CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine and amitriptyline ( CYP2D6 inhibitors ) , and ketoconazole and erythromycin ( CYP3A4 inhibitors ) , may reduce metabolic clearance of tramadol increasing the risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Serotonergic Drugs There have been post - marketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of tramadol and SSRIs / SNRIs or MAOIs and α2 - adrenergic blockers .
Caution is advised when Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is co - administered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , such as SSRIs , MAOIs , triptans , linezolid ( an antibiotic which is a reversible non - selective MAOI ) , lithium , or St . John ’ s Wort .
If concomitant treatment of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with a drug affecting the serotonergic neurotransmitter system is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Triptans Based on the mechanism of action of tramadol and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is co - administered with a triptan .
If concomitant treatment of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release with a triptan is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Interaction With Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients receiving CNS depressants such as opioids , anesthetic agents , narcotics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers or sedative hypnotics .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release increases the risk of CNS and respiratory depression in these patients [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 6 Quinidine Quinidine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 .
Coadministration of quinidine with an extended - release tramadol product resulted in a 50 - 60 % increase in tramadol exposure and a 50 - 60 % decrease in M1 exposure .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown .
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism .
7 . 7 Digoxin and Warfarins Post - marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity and alteration of warfarin effect , including elevation of prothrombin times .
7 . 8 CYP3A4 Inducers Administration of CYP3A4 inducers , such as carbamazepine , rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to reduced tramadol exposure [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients taking carbamazepine , a CYP3A4 inducer , may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol .
Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol , concomitant administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release and carbamazepine is not recommended .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS SECTION 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Use Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Neonatal seizures , neonatal withdrawal syndrome , fetal death and still birth have been reported during post - marketing reports with tramadol HCl immediate - release products .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Tramadol was not teratogenic at oral dose levels up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 6 - fold the maximum daily human dose ( MDHD ) ) in rats and 100 mg / kg ( approximately 6 . 5 - fold MDHD ) in rabbits during organogenesis .
However , embryo - fetal lethality , reductions in fetal weight and skeletal ossification , and increased supernumerary ribs were observed at a maternal toxic dose of 140 mg / kg in mice ( approximately 2 . 3 - fold MDHD ) , 80 mg / kg in rats ( 2 . 6 - fold MDHD ) or 300 mg / kg in rabbits ( Approximately 19 - fold MDHD ) .
Non - teratogenic Effects Tramadol caused a reduction in neonatal body weight at a dose of 50 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 - fold the MDHD ) and reduced pup survival at an oral dose of 80 mg / kg ( approximately 2 . 6 - fold MDHD ) when rats were treated during late gestation throughout lactation period .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be used in pregnant women prior to or during labor unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Chronic use during pregnancy may lead to physical dependence and post - partum withdrawal symptoms in the newborn [ see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
Tramadol has been shown to cross the placenta .
The mean ratio of serum tramadol in the umbilical veins compared to maternal veins was 0 . 83 for 40 women given tramadol during labor .
The effect of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , if any , on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is not recommended for obstetrical preoperative medication or for post - delivery analgesia in nursing mothers because its safety in infants and newborns has not been studied .
Following a single IV 100 mg dose of tramadol , the cumulative excretion in breast milk within 16 hours post - dose was 100 µg of tramadol ( 0 . 1 % of the maternal dose ) and 27 µg of M1 .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk following an oral dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release in patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
The use of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release in the pediatric population is not recommended .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , caution should be used when selecting the dose for an elderly patent .
Usually , dose administration should start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Eight hundred and twelve elderly ( 65 years of age or older ) subjects were exposed to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release in clinical trials .
Of those subjects , two hundred and forty were 75 years of age and older .
In general , higher incidence rates of adverse events were observed for patients older than 65 years of age compared with patients 65 years and younger , particularly for the following adverse events : nausea , constipation , somnolence , dizziness , dry mouth , vomiting , asthenia , pruritus , anorexia sweating , fatigue , weakness , postural hypotension and dyspepsia .
For this reason , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should be used with great caution in patients older than 75 years of age [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
Impaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 .
The limited availability of dose strengths of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release does not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Therefore , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 5 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release does not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Therefore , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE SECTION 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by federal regulation .
9 . 2 Abuse Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release contains tramadol , a mu - agonist opioid .
Tramadol , like other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiologic disease , with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
“ Drug - seeking ” behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated “ loss ” of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
“ Doctor shopping ” to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , like other opioids , may be diverted for non - medical use .
Careful record keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is intended for oral use only .
The crushed capsule poses a hazard of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances .
With parenteral abuse , the capsule excipients can be expected to result in local tissue necrosis , infection , pulmonary granulomas , and increased risk of endocarditis and valvular heart injury .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
9 . 3 Use in Drug and Alcohol Addiction Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is an opioid with no approved use for the management of addictive disorders .
Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence , either active or in remission is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia .
Concerns about abuse and addiction should not prevent the proper management of pain .
However all patients treated with opioids require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , because use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use .
9 . 4 Dependence Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
9 . 5 Withdrawal Symptoms The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
Generally , tolerance and / or withdrawal are more likely to occur the longer a patient is on continuous opioid therapy .
Withdrawal symptoms may occur if Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is discontinued abruptly .
Onset of adverse events are likely to occur after treatment is stopped .
These symptoms may include : anxiety , sweating , insomnia , rigors , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , piloerection , and rarely hallucinations .
Clinical experiences with tramadol suggests that withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release when discontinuing tramadol therapy [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION 10 . 1 Human Experience Acute overdosage with tramadol can be manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , bradycardia , hypotension , and death .
Deaths due to overdose have been reported with abuse and misuse of tramadol , by ingesting , inhaling , or injecting the crushed dosage forms .
Review of case reports has indicated that the risk of fatal overdose is further increased when tramadol is abused concurrently with alcohol or other CNS depressants , including other opioids .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose In the treatment of tramadol overdosage , primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) should be employed in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompa - nying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
While naloxone will reverse some , but not all , symptoms caused by overdosage with tramadol , the risk of seizures is also increased with naloxone administration .
In animals , convulsions following the administration of toxic doses of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release could be suppressed with barbiturates or benzodiazepines but were increased with naloxone .
Naloxone administration did not change the lethality of an overdose in mice .
Hemodialysis is not expected to be helpful in an overdose because it removes less than 7 % of the administered dose in a 4 - hour dialysis period .
DESCRIPTION SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic in an extended - release oral formulation .
The chemical name for tramadol hydrochloride USP is ( ± ) cis - 2 - [ ( dimethylamino ) methyl ] - 1 - ( 3 - methoxyphenyl ) cyclohexanol hydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of tramadol hydrochloride , USP is 299 . 8 .
It is a white , bitter , crystalline and odorless powder that is readily soluble in water and ethanol and has a pKa of 9 . 41 .
The n - octanol / water log partition coefficient ( logP ) is 1 . 35 at pH 7 .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules contain a total dose of tramadol hydrochloride USP 150 mg in a combination of immediate - release and extended - release components .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules are white in color .
Inactive ingredients include gelatin , titanium dioxide , shellac , yellow iron oxide , lactose monohydrate 200 mesh , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone K30 , corn starch , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , sucrose stearate , hypromellose , talc , polysorbate 80 , Eudragit NE 30 D , and simethicone emulsion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release contains tramadol , a centrally acting synthetic opioid analgesic .
Although its mode of action is not completely understood , from animal tests , at least two complementary mechanisms appear applicable : binding of parent and M1 metabolite to µ - opioid receptors and weak inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin .
Opioid activity is due to both low affinity binding of the parent compound and higher affinity binding of the O - demethylated metabolite M1 to µ - opioid receptors .
In animal models , M1 is up to 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in µ - opioid binding .
Tramadol - induced analgesia is only partially antagonized by the opiate antagonist naloxone in several animal tests .
The relative contribution of both tramadol and M1 to human analgesia is dependent upon the plasma concentrations of each compound .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tramadol has been shown to inhibit reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in vitro , as have some other opioid analgesics .
These mechanisms may contribute independently to the overall analgesic profile of tramadol .
The relationship between exposure of tramadol and M1 and efficacy has not been evaluated in clinical studies .
Apart from analgesia , tramadol administration may produce a constellation of symptoms ( including dizziness , somnolence , nausea , constipation , sweating and pruritus ) similar to that of other opioids .
In contrast to morphine , tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release .
At therapeutic doses , tramadol has no effect on heart rate , left ventricular function or cardiac index .
Orthostatic hypotension has been observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to both parent drug and the M1 metabolite .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is administered as a racemate and both tramadol and M1 are detected in the circulation .
The Cmax and AUC of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules have been observed to be dose - proportional over an oral dose range of 100 to 300 mg in healthy subjects .
Absorption : After a single dose administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , Tmax occurs around 10 - 12 hours .
The mean Cmax and AUC of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules after a 300 mg single dose was 308 ng / mL and 6777 ng * hr / mL , respectively under fasting conditions .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is bioequivalent to a reference extended - release tramadol product following a single 300 mg dose under fasting conditions .
At steady - state , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release at 200 mg has been observed to be bioequivalent to a reference extended - release tramadol product at 200 mg under fasting conditions ( Table 2 ) .
Following administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release 200 mg capsules , steady - state plasma concentrations of both tramadol and M1 are achieved within four days of once daily dosing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] AUC0 - 24 : Area under the Curve in a 24 - hour dosing interval Cmax : Peak Concentration in a 24 - hour dosing interval Cmin : Trough Concentration in a 24 - hour dosing interval Tmax : Time to Peak Concentration Food Effects : The rate and extent of absorption of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules ( 300 mg ) are similar following oral administration with or without food .
Therefore , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules can be administered without regard to meals .
Distribution : The volume of distribution of tramadol was 2 . 6 and 2 . 9 liters / kg in male and female subjects , respectively , following a 100 mg intravenous tramadol dose .
The binding of tramadol to human plasma proteins is approximately 20 % and binding also appears to be independent of concentration up to 10 µg / mL .
Saturation of plasma protein binding occurs only at concentrations outside the clinically relevant range .
Metabolism : Tramadol is extensively metabolized after oral administration .
The major metabolic pathways appear to be N – ( mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 ) and O – ( mediated by CYP2D6 ) demethylation and glucuronidation or sulfation in the liver .
One metabolite ( O - desmethyl tramadol , denoted M1 ) is pharmacologically active in animal models .
Formation of M1 is dependent on CYP2D6 and as such is subject to inhibition and polymorphism , which may affect the therapeutic response [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
Elimination : Tramadol is eliminated primarily through metabolism by the liver and the metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys .
Approximately 30 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug , whereas 60 % of the dose is excreted as metabolites .
The remainder is excreted either as unidentified or as unextractable metabolites .
The mean plasma elimination half - lives of racemic tramadol and racemic M1 after administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release capsules are approximately 10 and 11 hours , respectively .
Special Populations : Renal Impairment Impaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol was studied in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment after receiving multiple doses of an extended - release tramadol product at 100 mg .
There is no consistent trend observed for tramadol exposure related to renal function in patients with mild ( CLcr : 50 - 80 mL / min ) or moderate ( CLcr : 30 - 50 mL / min ) renal impairment in comparison to patients with normal renal function ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) .
However , exposure of M1 increased 20 - 40 % with increased severity of the renal impairment ( from normal to mild and moderate ) .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) .
The limited availability of dose strengths of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release does not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Therefore , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 5 ) , and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The total amount of tramadol and M1 removed during a 4 - hour dialysis period is less than 7 % of the administered dose .
Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetics of tramadol was studied in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment after receiving multiple doses of an extended - release tramadol product at 100 mg .
The exposure of ( + ) - and ( - ) - tramadol was similar in mild and moderate hepatic impairment patients in comparison to patients with normal hepatic function .
However , exposure of ( + ) - and ( - ) - M1 decreased ~ 50 % with increased severity of the hepatic impairment ( from normal to mild and moderate ) .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
After the administration of tramadol immediate - release tablets to patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver , tramadol area under the plasma concentration time curve was larger and the tramadol and M1 half - lives were longer than subjects with normal hepatic function .
The limited availability of dose strengths of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release does not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Therefore , Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 6 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender Based on pooled multiple - dose pharmacokinetics studies for an extended - release tramadol product in 166 healthy subjects ( 111 males and 55 females ) , the dose - normalized AUC values for tramadol were somewhat higher in females than in males .
There was a considerable degree of overlap in values between male and female groups .
Dosage adjustment based on gender is not recommended .
Age The effect of age on pharmacokinetics of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release has not been studied .
Healthy elderly subjects aged 65 to 75 years administered an immediate - release formulation of tramadol , have plasma concentrations and elimination half - lives comparable to those observed in healthy subjects less than 65 years of age .
In subjects over 75 years , mean maximum plasma concentrations are elevated ( 208 vs . 162 ng / mL ) and the mean elimination half - life is prolonged ( 7 vs . 6 hours ) compared to subjects 65 to 75 years of age .
Adjustment of the daily dose is recommended for patients older than 75 years [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interactions : Poor / Extensive Metabolizers , CYP2D6 The formation of the active metabolite , M1 , is mediated by CYP2D6 , a polymorphic enzyme .
Approximately 7 % of the population has reduced activity of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme of cytochrome P - 450 metabolizing enzyme system .
These individuals are “ poor metabolizers ” of debrisoquine , dextromethorphan and tricyclic antidepressants , among other drugs .
Based on a population PK analysis of Phase 1 studies with IR tablets in healthy subjects , concentrations of tramadol were approximately 20 % higher in " poor metabolizers " versus " extensive metabolizers , " while M1 concentrations were 40 % lower .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine , paroxetine , and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol .
Quinidine Tramadol is metabolized to active metabolite M1 by CYP2D6 .
Coadministration of quinidine , a selective inhibitor of CYP2D6 , with tramadol ER resulted in a 50 - 60 % increase in tramadol exposure and a 50 - 60 % decrease in M1 exposure .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown .
To evaluate the effect of tramadol , a CYP2D6 substrate on quinidine , an in vitro drug interaction study in human liver microsomes was conducted .
The results from this study indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism .
[ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 6 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since tramadol is also metabolized by CYP3A4 , administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin , or CYP3A4 inducers , such as rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cimetidine Concomitant administration of tramadol immediate - release tablets with cimetidine , a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor , does not result in clinically significant changes in tramadol pharmacokinetics .
No alteration of the Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release dosage regimen with cimetidine is recommended .
Carbamazepine Carbamazepine , a CYP3A4 inducer , increases tramadol metabolism .
Patients taking carbamazepine may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol .
Concomitant administration of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release and carbamazepine is not recommended .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY SECTION 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity assessment has been conducted in mice , rats and p53 ( + / - ) heterozygous mice .
A slight , but statistically significant , increase in two common murine tumors , pulmonary and hepatic , was observed in a mouse carcinogenicity study , particularly in aged mice .
Mice were dosed orally up to 30 mg / kg ( 90 mg / m2 or 0 . 5 times the maximum daily human dosage of 185 mg / m2 ) for approximately two years , although the study was not done with the Maximum Tolerated Dose .
This finding is not believed to suggest risk in humans .
No treatment - related tumors were noted in a rat carcinogenicity study ( dosing orally up to 30 mg / kg , 180 mg / m2 , or equivalent to the maximum daily human dosage ) or in a second study where rats were treated with up to 75 mg / kg / day for males and 100 mg / kg / day for females ( approximately 2 . 4 and 3 . 2 - fold MDHD , respectively ) for two years .
However , the excessive decrease in body weight gain observed in the rat study might have reduced their sensitivity to any potential carcinogenic effect of the drug .
No carcinogenic effect of tramadol was observed in p53 ( + / – ) - heterozygous mice at oral doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 . 4 - fold maximum daily human dose [ MDHD ] of 300 mg / day for a 60 kg adult based on body surface conversion ) for 26 weeks .
Tramadol was not mutagenic in the following assays : a bacterial reverse mutation assay using Salmonella and E . coli , a mouse lymphoma assay ( in the absence of metabolic activation ) , chromosomal aberration test in Chinese hamsters , a bone marrow micronucleus test in mice and Chinese hamsters , and a dominant lethal mutation test in mice .
Mutagenic results occurred in the presence of metabolic activation in the mouse lymphoma assay and micronucleus test in rats .
Overall , the weight of evidence from these tests indicates that tramadol does not pose a genotoxic risk to humans .
No effects on fertility were observed for tramadol at oral dose levels up to 50 mg / kg / day in male and female rats ( 1 . 6 - fold the MDHD ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is bioequivalent under fasting conditions to another extended - release tramadol product [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] which did demonstrate efficacy in two of four clinical trials of patients with chronic pain .
To qualify for inclusion into these studies , patients were required to have moderate to moderately severe pain as defined by a pain intensity score of ≥ 40 mm , off previous medications , on a 0 – 100 mm visual analog scale ( VAS ) .
In one 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study , patients with moderate to moderately severe pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee and / or hip were administered doses from 100 mg to 400 mg daily .
Treatment with the extended - release tramadol product was initiated at 100 mg once daily for four days then increased by 100 mg per day increments every five days to the randomized fixed dose .
Between 51 % and 59 % of patients in active treatment groups completed the study and 56 % of patients in the placebo group completed the study .
Discontinua - tions due to adverse events were more common in the extended - release tramadol product 200 mg , 300 mg and 400 mg treatment groups ( 20 % , 27 % , and 30 % of discontinuations , respectively ) compared to 14 % of the patients treated with the extended - release tramadol product 100 mg and 10 % of patients treated with placebo .
Pain , as assessed by the WOMAC Pain subscale , was measured at 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 weeks and change from baseline assessed .
A responder analysis based on the percent change in WOMAC Pain subscale demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in pain for the 100 mg and 200 mg treatment groups compared to placebo ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In one 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled flexible - dosing trial of the extended - release tramadol product in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee , patients titrated to an average daily dose of approximately 270 mg / day .
Forty - nine percent of patients randomized to the active treatment group completed the study , while 52 % of patients randomized to placebo completed the study .
Most of the early discontinuations in the active treatment group were due to adverse events , accounting for 27 % of the early discontinuations in contrast to 7 % of the discontinuations from the placebo group .
Thirty - seven percent of the placebo - treated patients discontinued the study due to lack of efficacy compared to 15 % of active - treated patients .
The active treatment group demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in the mean Visual Analog Scale ( VAS ) score , and a statistically significant difference in the responder rate , based on the percent change from baseline in the VAS score , measured at 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , and 12 weeks , between patients receiving the extended - release tramadol product and placebo ( see Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Four randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release were conducted , none of which demonstrated efficacy but which differed in design from the preceding clinical studies described .
Two trials were 12 - week randomized placebo - controlled trials of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release 100 mg / day , 200 mg / day , and 300 mg / day versus placebo in patients with moderate to moderately severe osteoarthritis pain of the hip and knee .
The other two 12 week trials were similar in design , but only studied Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release 300 mg / day .
In this fixed - dose design , subjects were required to titrate to a fixed dose , even if their pain responded to a lower titration dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED SECTION Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules are supplied as opaque white hard gelatin capsules , imprinted as follows : 150 mg Capsules : White capsule imprinted with gold ink “ G 322 ” on cap and “ 150 ” between lines on the body Bottle of 500 capsules : NDC 69467 - 1001 - 1 Storage Dispense in a tight container .
Store at 25 ° C ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : STA3 , LLC Los Angeles , CA 90064 USA To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact STA3 , LLC at Vertical ( 877 ) 958 - 3784 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS SECTION Inform patients that : Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is for oral use only and should be swallowed whole .
The capsule should not be chewed , dissolved , crushed or split .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may cause seizures and / or serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of serotonergic agents ( including SRIs , NRIs , and triptans ) or drugs that significantly reduce the metabolic clearance of tramadol .
Not to change the prescribed single - dose or 24 - hour dosing regimen of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release , and that exceeding the prescribed dose can result in respiratory depression , seizures or death .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release may impair mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should not be taken with alcohol containing beverages .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release should be used with caution when taking medications such as tranquilizers , hypnotics or other opiate containing analgesics .
Instruct female patients to inform the prescriber if they are pregnant , think they might become pregnant , or are trying to become pregnant .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release is to be taken once - a - day and at approximately the same time every day .
Also , exceeding these recommenda - tions and the maximum recommended daily dose can result in respiratory depression , seizures or death .
Elderly patients , especially those over 75 years of age , and other patients who have renal or hepatic impairments may need to be cautioned about reduced dosages .
Not to abruptly withdraw or discontinue tramadol therapy , as clinical experience with tramadol suggests the possible onset of signs and symptoms of withdraw - al .
These effects may be reduced by tapering tramadol therapy .
Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release must be kept out of reach of children .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
