Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each 1 ml ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 5 mg Guaifenesin , 50 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Uses • Temporarily controls cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus , drain bronchial tubes , and make coughs more productive .
Warnings Do not use : in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if your child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with asthma .
When using this product do not exceed the recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • new symptoms occur • coughs persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Children 6 to under 12 years of age • 1 mL every 4 hours as needed , do not exceed 6 doses in any 24 - hour , or as directed by a doctor • Children under 6 , consult a doctor Inactive ingredients Citric acid , flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate and sodium saccharin .
Other information • Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if cap seal is torn , broken or missing .
• Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
• Avoid excessive heat and humidity .
COUGH SUPRESSANT EXPECTORANT No sugar , dye , alcohol , aspartame or sorbitol DECONGESTANT FREE Manufacture in the USA for Kramer - Novis , San Juan , PR 00917 .
Tel : ( 787 ) 767 - 2072 www . kramernovis . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
