[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , quinapril tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality DESCRIPTION Quinapril hydrochloride USP is the hydrochloride salt of quinapril , the ethyl ester of a non - sulfhydryl , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor , quinaprilat .
Quinapril hydrochloride USP is chemically described as [ 3 S - [ 2 [ R * ( R * ) ] , 3 R * ] ] - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ 1 ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenylpropyl ] amino ] - 1 - oxopropyl ] - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - 3 - isoquinolinecarboxylicacid , monohydrochloride .
Its empirical formula is C2SH30N20s - HCI and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Quinapril hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white amorphous powder that is freely soluble inaqueous solvents .
Quinapril Tablets USP contain quinapril hydrochloride equivalent to 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mgof quinapril for oral administration .
Each tablet also contains lactose monohydrate , magnesium carbonate , magnesium stearate , crospovidone , povidone and opadry brown ( hypromellose , titanium dioxide , ironoxide and macrogol ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Quinapril is deesterified to the principal metabolite , quinaprilat , which is aninhibitor of ACE activity in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzesthe conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor , angiotensin II .
The effect of quinapril inhypertension appears to result primarily from the inhibition of circulating and tissue ACE activity , thereby reducing angiotensin II formation .
Quinapril inhibits the elevation in blood pressure causedby intravenously administered angiotensin I , but has no effect on the pressor response toangiotensin II , norepinephrine or epinephrine .
Angiotensin II also stimulates the secretion ofaldosterone from the adrenal cortex , thereby facilitating renal sodium and fluid reabsorption . Reduced aldosterone secretion by quinapril may result in a small increase in serum potassium .
Incontrolled hypertension trials , treatment with quinapril hydrochloride alone resulted in meanincreases in potassium of 0 . 07 mmol / L ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Removal of angiotensin II negativefeedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity ( PRA ) .
While the principal mechanism of antihypertensive effect is thought to be through the reninangiotensin - aldosterone system , quinapril exerts antihypertensive actions even in patients with lowrenin hypertension .
Quinapril hydrochloride was an effective antihypertensive in all races studied , although it was somewhat less effective in blacks ( usually a predominantly low renin group ) than innonblacks .
ACE is identical to kininase II , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin , a potent peptidevasodilator ; whether increased levels of bradykinin playa role in the therapeutic effect of quinaprilremains to be elucidated .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration , peak plasma quinaprilconcentrations are observed within one hour .
Based on recovery of quinapril and its metabolites inurine , the extent of absorption is at least 60 % .
The rate and extent of quinapril absorption arediminished moderately ( approximately 25 to 30 % ) when quinapril hydrochloride tablets areadministered during a high - fat meal .
Following absorption , quinapril is deesterified to its major activemetabolite , quinaprilat ( about 38 % of oral dose ) , and to other minor inactive metabolites .
Followingmultiple oral dosing of quinapril hydrochloride , there is an effective accumulation half - life ofquinaprilat of approximately 3 hours , and peak plasma quinaprilat concentrations are observedapproximately 2 hours post - dose .
Quinaprilat is eliminated primarily by renal excretion , up to 96 % ofan IV dose , and has an elimination half - life in plasma of approximately 2 hours and a prolongedterminal phase with a half - life of 25 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of quinapril and quinaprilat arelinear over a single - dose range of 5 to 80 mg doses and 40 to 160 mg in multiple daily doses . Approximately 97 % of either quinapril or quinaprilat circulating in plasma is bound to proteins .
In patients with renal insufficiency , the elimination half - life of quinaprilat increases as creatinineclearance decreases .
There is a linear correlation between plasma quinaprilat clearance andcreatinine clearance .
In patients with end - stage renal disease , chronic hemodialysis or continuousambulatory peritoneal dialysis has little effect on the elimination of quinapril and quinaprilat . Elimination of quinaprilat may be reduced in elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years ) and in those with heartfailure ; this reduction is attributable to decrease in renal function ( see DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION ) .
Quinaprilat concentrations are reduced in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis dueto impaired deesterification of quinapril .
Studies in rats indicate that quinapril and its metabolites donot cross the blood - brain barrier .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Hypertension Single doses of 20 mg of quinapril hydrochloride provide over 80 % inhibition ofplasma ACE for 24 hours .
Inhibition of the pressor response to angiotensin I is shorter - lived , with a20 mg dose giving 75 % inhibition for about 4 hours , 50 % inhibition for about 8 hours , and 20 % inhibition at 24 hours .
With chronic dosing , however , there is substantial inhibition of angiotensin IIlevels at 24 hours by doses of 20 to 80 mg .
Administration of 10 to 80 mg of quinapril hydrochloride to patients with mild to severe hypertensionresults in a reduction of sitting and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with minimaleffect on heart rate .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent although it can occur in patientswho are salt - and / or volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS ) .
Antihypertensive activity commences within1 hour with peak effects usually achieved by 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
During chronic therapy , mostof the blood pressure lowering effect of a given dose is obtained in 1 to 2 weeks .
In multiple - dosestudies , 10 to 80 mg per day in single or divided doses lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressurethroughout the dosing interval , with a trough effect of about 5 to 11 / 3 to 7 mm Hg .
The trough effectrepresents about 50 % of the peak effect .
While the dose - response relationship is relatively flat , doses of 40 to 80 mg were somewhat more effective at trough than 10 to 20 mg , and twice dailydosing tended to give a somewhat lower trough blood pressure than once daily dosing with the sametotal dose .
The antihypertensive effect of quinapril hydrochloride continues during long - term therapy , with no evidence of loss of effectiveness .
Hemodynamic assessments in patients with hypertension indicate that blood pressure reductionproduced by quinapril is accompanied by a reduction in total peripheral resistance and renalvascular resistance with little or no change in heart rate , cardiac index , renal blood flow , glomerularfiltration rate , or filtration fraction .
Use of quinapril hydrochloride with a thiazide diuretic gives a blood pressure lowering effect greaterthan that seen with either agent alone .
In patients with hypertension , quinapril hydrochloride 10 to 40 mg was similar in effectiveness tocaptopril , enalapril , propranolol , and thiazide diuretics .
Therapeutic effects appear to be the same for elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) and younger adult patientsgiven the same daily dosages , with no increase in adverse events in elderly patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Quinapril hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or incombination with thiazide diuretics .
In using quinapril hydrochloride , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensinconvertingenzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renalimpairment or collagen vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that quinaprilhydrochloride does not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS ) .
Angioedema in black patients Black patients receiving ACE inhibitor monotherapy have beenreported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non - blacks .
It should also be notedthat in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in blackpatients than in non - blacks .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Quinapril hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and inpatients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids andpolypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including quinapril hydrochloride ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynxhas been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors and has been seen in 0 . 1 % of patientsreceiving quinapril hydrochloride .
In two similarly sized U . S . postmarketing trials that , combined , enrolled over 3 , 000 black patients andover 19 , 000 non - blacks , angioedema was reported in 0 . 30 % and 0 . 55 % of blacks ( in study 1 and 2 respectively ) and 0 . 39 % and 0 . 17 % of non - blacks .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of theface , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with quinapril hydrochloride should be discontinuedimmediately , the patient treated in accordance with accepted medical care , and carefully observeduntil the swelling disappears .
In instances where swelling is confined to the face and lips , thecondition generally resolves without treatment ; antihistamines may be useful in relieving symptoms . Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx likely to cause airway obstruction , emergency therapy including , but not limited to , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACEinhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; insome cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal . The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or atsurgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should beincluded in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Patients with a history of angioedema Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACEinhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizingtreatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threateninganaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitorswere temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have beenreported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACEinhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - densitylipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts withcholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
Themechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who developjaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receiveappropriate medical follow - up .
Hypotension Excessive hypotension is rare in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treatedwith quinapril hydrochloride alone .
Patients with heart failure given quinapril hydrochloride commonlyhave some reduction in blood pressure , but discontinuation of therapy because of continuingsymptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed .
Cautionshould be observed when initiating therapy in patients with heart failure ( see DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION ) .
In controlled studies , syncope was observed in 0 . 4 % of patients ( N = 3203 ) ; thisincidence was similar to that observed for captopril ( 1 % ) and enalapril ( 0 . 8 % ) .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension , sometimes associated with oliguria and / or progressiveazotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death , include patients with the followingconditions or characteristics : heart failure , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , recent intensivediuresis or increase in diuretic dose , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of anyetiology .
It may be advisable to eliminate the diuretic ( except in patients with heart failure ) , reducethe diuretic dose or cautiously increase salt intake ( except in patients with heart failure ) beforeinitiating therapy with quinapril hydrochloride in patients at risk for excessive hypotension who areable to tolerate such adjustments .
In patients at risk of excessive hypotension , therapy with quinapril hydrochloride should be startedunder close medical supervision .
Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks oftreatment and whenever the dose of quinapril hydrochloride and / or diuretic is increased .
Similarconsiderations may apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom anexcessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or a cerebrovascular accident .
If excessive hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , ifnecessary , receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is nota contraindication to further doses of quinapril hydrochloride , which usually can be given withoutdifficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
If symptomatic hypotension develops , a dosereduction or discontinuation of quinapril hydrochloride or concomitant diuretic may be necessary .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another ACE inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to causeagranulocytosis and bone marrow depression rarely in patients with uncomplicated hypertension , but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen vasculardisease , such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Agranulocytosis did occur duringquinapril hydrochloride treatment in one patient with a history of neutropenia during previouscaptopril therapy .
Available data from clinical trials of quinapril hydrochloride are insufficient to showthat , in patients without prior reactions to other ACE inhibitors , quinapril hydrochloride does notcause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
As with other ACE inhibitors , periodic monitoring of whiteblood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and / or renal disease should beconsidered .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality ACE inhibitors can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity anddeath when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the worldliterature .
When pregnancy is detected , ACE inhibitors should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of ACE inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associatedwith fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible orirreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resultingfrom decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetallimb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it isnot clear whether these occurrences were due to the ACE inhibitor exposure .
These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE inhibitor exposure thathas been limited to the first trimester .
Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to ACEinhibitors only during the first trimester should be so informed .
Nonetheless , when patients becomepregnant , physicians should make every effort to discontinue the use of quinapril hydrochloride assoon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to ACEinhibitors will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazardsto their fetuses , and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intraamnioticenvironment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , quinapril hydrochloride should be discontinued unless it isconsidered lifesaving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a non - stress test ( NST ) , orbiophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patientsand physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetushas sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to ACE inhibitors should be closely observed forhypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed towardsupport of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required asa means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Removal ofquinapril hydrochloride , which crosses the placenta , from the neonatal circulation is not significantlyaccelerated by these means .
No teratogenic effects of quinapril hydrochloride were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits . On a mg / kg basis , the doses used were up to 180 times ( in rats ) and one time ( in rabbits ) themaximum recommended human dose .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired renal function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensinaldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe heartfailure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensinaldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including quinapril hydrochloride , may be associated with oliguriaand / or progressive azotemia and rarely acute renal failure and / or death .
In clinical studies in hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increasesin blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine have been observed in some patients following ACEinhibitor therapy .
These increases were almost always reversible upon discontinuation of the ACEinhibitor and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the firstfew weeks of therapy .
Some patients with hypertension or heart failure with no apparent preexisting renal vascular diseasehave developed increases in blood urea and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when quinapril hydrochloride has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is morelikely to occur in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuationof any diuretic and / or quinapril hydrochloride may be required .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension or heart failure should always include assessmentof renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hyperkalemia and potassium - sparing diuretics : In clinical trials , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium ≥ 5 . 8 mmol / L ) occurred in approximately 2 % of patients receiving quinapril hydrochloride .
In mostcases , elevated serum potassium levels were isolated values which resolved despite continuedtherapy .
Less than 0 . 1 % of patients discontinued therapy due to hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for thedevelopment of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant useof potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium containing saltsubstitutes , which should be used cautiously , if at all , with quinapril hydrochloride ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistentnon - productive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving afterdiscontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differentialdiagnosis of cough .
Surgery / anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents thatproduce hypotension , quinapril hydrochloride will block angiotensin II formation secondary tocompensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of secondandthird - trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors , and they should also be told that theseconsequences do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE - inhibitor exposure that hasbeen limited to the first trimester .
These patients should be asked to report pregnancies to theirphysicians as soon as possible .
Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema can occur with treatment with ACEinhibitors , especially following the first dose .
Patients should be so advised and told to reportimmediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing : and to stop taking the drug until they have consultedwith their physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
Symptomatic hypotension Patients should be cautioned that light - headedness can occur , especially during the first few days of quinapril hydrochloride therapy , and that it should be reportedto a physician .
If actual syncope occurs , patients should be told to not take the drug until they haveconsulted with their physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea , orvomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume , withthe same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Patients planning to undergo any surgery and / or anesthesia should be told to inform their physicianthat they are taking an ACE inhibitor .
Hyperkalemia Patients should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutescontaining potassium without consulting their physician ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Neutropenia Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( eg , sore throat , fever ) which could be a sign of neutropenia .
NOTE : As with many other drugs , certain advice to patients being treated with quinaprilhydrochloride is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of thismedication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Drug Interactions Concomitant diuretic therapy As with other ACE inhibitors , patients on diuretics , especially thoseon recently instituted diuretic therapy may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of bloodpressure after initiation of therapy with quinapril hydrochloride .
The possibility of hypotensive effectswith quinapril hydrochloride may be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or cautiouslyincreasing salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with quinapril hydrochloride .
If it is not possibleto discontinue the diuretic , the starting dose of quinapril should be reduced ( see DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION ) .
Agents increasing serum potassium Quinapril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazidediuretics and increase serum potassium when used alone .
If concomitant therapy of quinaprilhydrochloride with potassium - sparing diuretics ( eg , spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes is indicated , they should be usedwith caution along with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Tetracycline and other drugs that interact with magnesium Simultaneous administration oftetracycline with quinapril hydrochloride reduced the absorption of tetracycline by approximately28 % to 37 % , possibly due to the high magnesium content in quinapril hydrochloride tablets .
Thisinteraction should be considered if coprescribing quinapril hydrochloride and tetracycline or otherdrugs that interact with magnesium .
Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported inpatients receiving concomitant lithium and ACE inhibitor therapy .
These drugs should becoadministered with caution and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If adiuretic is also used , it may increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Other agents Drug interaction studies of quinapril hydrochloride with other agents showed : • Multiple dose therapy with propranolol or cimetidine has no effect on the pharmacokinetics ofsingle doses of quinapril hydrochloride .
• The anticoagulant effect of a single dose of warfarin ( measured by prothrombin time ) was notsignificantly changed by quinapril coadministration twice - daily .
• quinapril hydrochloride treatment did not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin .
• No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed when single doses of quinapril hydrochloride andhydrochlorothiazide were administered concomitantly .
• Co - administration of multiple 10 mg doses of atorvastatin with 80 mg of quinapril hydrochlorideresulted in no significant change in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Quinapril hydrochloride was not carcinogenic in mice or rats when given in doses up to 75 or100 mg / kg / day ( 50 to 60 times the maximum human daily dose , respectively , on an mg / kg basis and3 . 8 to 10 times the maximum human daily dose when based on an mg / m2 basis ) for 104 weeks . Female rats given the highest dose level had an increased incidence of mesenteric lymph nodehemangiomas and skin / subcutaneous lipomas .
Neither quinapril nor quinaprilat were mutagenic inthe Ames bacterial assay with or without metabolic activation .
Quinapril was also negative in thefollowing genetic toxicology studies : in vitro mammalian cell point mutation , sister chromatidexchange in cultured mammalian cells , micronucleus test with mice , in vitro chromosome aberrationwith V79 cultured lung cells , and in an in vivo cytogenetic study with rat bone marrow .
There wereno adverse effects on fertility or reproduction in rats at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 60 and 10 timesthe maximum daily human dose when based on mg / kg and mg / m2 , respectively ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy : Category B . Pregnancy Categories C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) : See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Nursing Mothers Because quinapril hydrochloride is secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when thisdrug is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of quinapril hydrochloride in pediatric patients have not beenestablished .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of quinapril hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 andover to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinicalexperience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low endof the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to thisdrug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likelyto have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful tomonitor renal function .
Elderly patients exhibited increased area under the plasma concentration time curve and peak levelsfor quinaprilat compared to values observed in younger patients ; this appeared to relate todecreased renal function rather than to age itself .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension Quinapril hydrochloride has been evaluated for safety in 4960 subjects and patients .
Of these , 3203 patients , including 655 elderly patients , participated in controlled clinical trials .
Quinaprilhydrochloride has been evaluated for long - term safety in over 1400 patients treated for 1 year ormore .
Adverse experiences were usually mild and transient .
In placebo - controlled trials , discontinuation of therapy because of adverse events was required in4 . 7 % of patients with hypertension .
Adverse experiences probably or possibly related to therapy or of unknown relationship to therapyoccurring in 1 % or more of the 1563 patients in placebo - controlled hypertension trials who weretreated with quinapril hydrochloride are shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hypertension Clinical adverse experiences probably , possibly , or definitely related , or of uncertain relationship totherapy occurring in 0 . 5 % to 1 . 0 % ( except as noted ) of the patients with hypertension treated withquinapril hydrochloride ( With or without concomitant diuretic ) in controlled or uncontrolled trials ( N = 4847 ) and less frequent , clinically significant events seen in clinical trials or postmarketingexperience ( the rarer events are in italics ) include ( listed by body system ) : General back pain , malaise , viral infections , anaphylactoid reaction Cardiovascular palpitation , vasodilation , tachycardia , heart failure , hyperkalemia , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident , hypertensive crisis , angina pectoris , orthostatic hypotension , cardiac rhythm disturbances , cardiogenic shock Hematology hemolytic anemia Gastrointestinal flatulence , dry mouth or throat , constipation , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , pancreatitis , abnormal liver function tests , dyspepsia Nervous / Psychiatric somnolence , vertigo , syncope , nervousness , depression , insomnia , paresthesia Integumentary alopecia , increased sweating , pemphigus , pruritus , exfoliative dermatitis , photosensitivity reaction , dermatopolymyositis Urogenital urinary tract infection , impotence , acute renal failure , worsening renal failure Respiratory eosinophilic pneumonitis Other amblyopia , edema , arthralgia , pharyngitis , agranulocytosis , hepatitis , thrombocytopenia Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Angioedema Angioedema has been reported in patients receiving quinapril hydrochloride ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Angioedemaassociated with laryngeal edema may be fatal .
If angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and / or larynx occurs , treatment with quinapril hydrochloride should be discontinued andappropriate therapy instituted immediately .
( See WARNINGS . )
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Hematology ( See WARNINGS ) Hyperkalemia ( See PRECAUTIONS ) Creatinine and Blood Urea Nitrogen Increases ( > 1 . 25 times the upper limit of normal ) in serumcreatinine and blood urea nitrogen were observed in 2 % and 2 % , respectively , of all patients treatedwith quinapril hydrochloride alone .
Increases are more likely to occur in patients receivingconcomitant diuretic therapy than in those on quinapril hydrochloride alone .
These increases oftenremit on continued therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Doses of 1440 to 4280 mg / kg of quinapril cause significant lethality in mice and rats .
No specificinformation is available on the treatment of overdosage with quinapril .
The most likely clinicalmanifestation would be symptoms attributable to severe hypotension .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of quinapril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of quinapriloverdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( eg , maneuvers to change pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of quinapril and its metabolites .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis have little effect on the elimination of quinapril and quinaprilat . Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of quinapriloverdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities . Because the hypotensive effect of quinapril is achieved through vasodilation and effectivehypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat quinapril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Monotherapy The recommended initial dosage of quinapril hydrochloride in patients not ondiuretics is 10 or 20 mg once daily .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressureresponse measured at peak ( 2 to 6 hours after dosing ) and trough ( predosing ) .
Generally , dosageadjustments should be made at intervals of at least 2 weeks .
Most patients have required dosagesof 20 , 40 , or 80 mg / day , given as a single dose or in two equally divided doses .
In some patientstreated once daily , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval .
Insuch patients an increase in dosage or twice daily administration may be warranted .
In general , doses of 40 to 80 mg and divided doses give a somewhat greater effect at the end of the dosinginterval .
Concomitant Diuretics If blood pressure is not adequately controlled with quinapril hydrochloridemonotherapy , a diuretic may be added .
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of quinapril hydrochloride . To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued 2 to 3 daysprior to beginning therapy with quinapril hydrochloride ( see WARNINGS ) .
Then , if blood pressure isnot controlled with quinapril hydrochloride alone , diuretic therapy should be resumed .
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 5 mg quinapril hydrochloride should be usedwith careful medical supervision for several hours and until blood pressure has stabilized .
The dosage should subsequently be titrated ( as described above ) to the optimal response ( seeWARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and Drug Interactions ) .
Renal Impairment Kinetic data indicate that the apparent elimination half - life of quinaprilatincreases as creatinine clearance decreases .
Recommended starting doses , based on clinical andpharmacokinetic data from patients with renal impairment , are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients should subsequently have their dosage titrated ( as described above ) to the optimalresponse .
Elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) The recommended initial dosage of quinapril hydrochloride in elderly patientsis 10 mg given once daily followed by titration ( as described above ) to the optimal response .
Following the initial dose of quinapril hydrochloride , the patient should be observed under medicalsupervision for at least two hours for the presence of hypotension or orthostatis and , if present , untilblood pressure stabilizes .
The appearance of hypotension , orthostatis , or azotemia early in dosetitration should not preclude further careful dose titration .
Consideration should be given to reducingthe dose of concomitant diuretics .
DOSE ADJUSTMENTS IN PATIENTS WITH HEART FAILURE AND RENAL IMPAIRMENT OR HYPONATREMIA Pharmacokinetic data indicate that quinapril elimination is dependent on level of renal function .
Inpatients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose of quinaprilhydrochloride is 5 mg in patients with a creatinine clearance above 30 mLlmin and 2 . 5 mg in patientswith a creatinine clearance of 10 to 30 mL / min .
There is insufficient data for dosage recommendationin patients with a creatinine clearance less than 10 mLlmin ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Heart Failure , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
If the initial dose is well tolerated , quinapril hydrochloride may be administered the following day asa twice daily regimen .
In the absence of excessive hypotension or significant deterioration of renalfunction , the dose may be increased at weekly intervals based on clinical and hemodynamicresponse .
HOW SUPPLIED Quinapril Tablets USP are supplied as follows : 5 - mg tablets : brown , round biconvex tablets de - bossed with I on the left side of bisect and G on theright side of bisect and 267 on other .
NDC 55111 - 621 - 90 bottles of 90 tablets NDC 55111 - 621 - 1 a bottles of 1000 tablets 10 - mg tablets : brown , round biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 268 on other .
NDC 55111 - 622 - 90 bottles of 90 tablets NDC 55111 - 622 - 1 a bottles of 1000 tablets 20 - mg tablets : brown , round biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 269 on other .
NDC 55111 - 623 - 90 bottles of 90 tablets NDC 55111 - 623 - 1 a bottles of 1000 tablets 40 - mg tablets : brown , oval biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 270 on other .
NDC 55111 - 624 - 90 bottles of 90 tablets NDC 55111 - 624 - 10 bottles of 1000 tablets Dispense in well - closed containers as defined in the USP .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 7 JOF ) with excursions permitted betweenPlacebo 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP ] .
Protect from light .
Manufactured by : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc Hauppauge , NY 11788 Distributed by : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Rev : 05 / 09 Labeling 5 mg - Container Labeling 90 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mg - Container Labeling 90 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 20 mg - Container Labeling 90 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 40 mg - Container Labeling 90 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
