Active Ingredient Active Ingredient : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 40 % Purpose Antiseptic Use For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings Warning : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur .
Consult a physician immediately .
Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body .
Directions Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredient : Purified water LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20130301 Antiseptic Towelette Genuine First Aid LLC , Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com 1 / pouch GENUINE FIRST AID Active Ingredient : Purpose : Benzocaine , 6 % w / v .................. Topical Anesthetic SD alcohol , 60 % w / v .................. Antiseptic Use : For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , scrapes and insect bites .
Warnings : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If this happens , rinse thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable - keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use : In eyes , on broken skin , deep puncture wounds .
If unusual redness , swelling , irritation or other symptoms occur , consult a physician immediately .
Made in CHINA LOT / EXP : Insect Sting Relief Pad Genuine First Aid LLC , Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com 1 / pouch GENUINE FIRST AID Active Ingredients Active Ingredient : ......... Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Purpose Triple Antibiotic Uses : To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes ; burns Warnings For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage Other information : Store at room temperature .
Inactive Ingredient water Genuine Triple Antibiotic First Aid Ointment To Help Prevent Infection Each Gram Contains : Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Net Wt .
0 . 5 g ; ( 1 / 64 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for GENUINE FIRST AID .
Triple Antibiotic Ointment 10 pcs Net wt .
0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) 100 Triple Antibiotic Active Ingredients ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Lidocaine HCL 0 . 5 % Purpose Purpose : First aid antiseptic , external analgesic Uses First aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with : Minor Cuts Scrapes Burns Warnings For external use only Do not use : In eyes , in large quantities , over raw blistered areas , or on deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , for more than one week Do not use : in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body .
longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you have deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
When using this product , avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days condition clears up and occurs again within a few days Keep out of reach of Children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older clean affected area .
apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily .
may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Other Information : Store at room temperature ( do not freeze ) .
Taper evident sealed packets .
Do not use packet if opened or torn .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe vera , cetyl alcohol , diazolidinyl urea , edetate disodium , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , irolamine LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20130301 GFA Production Xiamen Co . , Ltd No . 20 Huli Industrial Park , Meixi Road , Tong ' an , Xiamen , Fujian , China 361100 Tel : 86 - 592 - 7269515 Fax : 86 - 592 - 7269528 Http : / / www . gfaproduction . com Genuine First Aid Burn Cream Antiseptic Pain Relief With Aloe Net Wt 0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for Genuine First Aid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
