DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic oral antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C30H53NO11 Each soft gelatin capsule , for oral administration , contains 100 mg , 150 mg or 200 mg of benzonatate USP .
Benzonatate Capsules , USP also contain the following inactive ingredients : D & C Yellow # 10 , gelatin , glycerin , purified water , methylparaben , propylparaben and titanium dioxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate USP is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
Psychiatric Efects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior , including mental confusion and visual hallucinations , have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate in combination with other prescribed drugs .
Accidental Ingestion and Death in Children Keep benzonatate capsules out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion of benzonatate resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - amino - benzoic acid class ( e . g . procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for Patients Swallow benzonatate capsules whole .
Do not break , chew , dissolve , cut , or crush Benzonatate Capsules .
Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
If numbness or tingling of the tongue , mouth , throat , or face occurs , refrain from oral ingestion of foods or liquids until the numbness has resolved .
If the symptoms worsen or persist , seek medical attention .
Keep benzonatate out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
Signs and symptoms may include restlessness , tremors , convulsions , coma and cardiac arrest .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately .
Overdosage resulting in death may occur in adults .
Do not exceed a single dose of 200 mg and a total daily dosage of 600 mg .
If you miss a dose of benzonatate capsule , skip that dose and take the next dose at the next scheduled time .
Do not take 2 doses of benzonatate at one time .
Usage in Pregnancy PREGNANCY CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
It is also not known whether benzonatate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk caution should be exercised when benzonatate is administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Keep out of reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential Adverse Reactions to benzonatate may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation ; nausea ; GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Deliberate or accidental overdose has resulted in death , particularly in children .
OVERDOSAGE Intentional and unintentional overdose may result in death , particularly in children .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms The signs and symptoms of overdose of benzonatate have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes .
If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly , which may cause choking and airway compromise .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Convulsions , coma , cerebral edema and cardiac arrest leading to death have been reported within 1 hour of ingestion .
Treatment In case of overdose , seek medical attention immediately .
Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag reflexes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturate given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age : Usual dose is one 100 mg , 150 mg or 200 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough .
If necessary to control cough , up to 600 mg daily in three divided doses may be given .
Benzonatate should be swallowed whole .
Benzonatate capsules are not to be broken , chewed , dissolved , cut or crushed .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzonatate Capsules USP , 100 mg : Yellow soft gelatin capsules , imprinted " 105 " , available in blister cards of 30 ’ s ( NDC 0615 - 8194 - 39 ) .
Benzonatate Capsules USP , 150 mg : Yellow soft gelatin capsules , imprinted " 128 " .
Benzonatate Capsules USP , 200 mg : Yellow soft gelatin capsules , imprinted " 106 " .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Manufactured by Intergel Division of IVC Industries , Inc .
Irvington , NJ 07111 Manufactured for Ascend Laboratories , LLC Montvale , NJ 07645 Rev 02 / 17 210082 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
