COMPOSITION Each PURPLE softgel capsule contains : Vitamin A ( as beta carotene ) 330 mcg RAE Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 60 mg Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 25 mcg Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 9 mg Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg NE Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate 1700 mcg DFE ( as Folic acid USP 680 mcg DFE ; as L - methylfolate calcium 1020 mcg DFE ) Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 25 mg Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 90 mg Iodine ( as potassium iodide ) 150 mcg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 20 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 25 mg Copper ( as copper oxide ) 2 mg Algal oil blend ( derived from Natural Algal Oil ) 415 mg [ 1 ] [ 1 ] ( providing 200 mg DHA ( docosahexaenoic acid ) ) Other Ingredients : Gelatin , Soybean Oil , Sorbitol , Glycerin , Yellow Beeswax , USP Purified Water , Lecithin , Titanium Dioxide ( as colorant ) , FD & C Red # 40 , FD & C Blue # 1 , White Edible Ink .
Contains : Soy .
May also contain : Corn Oil , DL alpha - tocopherol , Medium ChainTriglycerides .
USAGE Vitafol ® Fe + prenatal supplement provides vitamin , mineral and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation throughout pregnancy , including individuals with known allergies to fish .
Vitafol ® Fe + does not contain fish oils , fish proteins , or fish by - products .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® Fe + prenatal supplement is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron supplementation is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS This product is intended for use as directed by your healthcare provider .
Do not share with others .
Vitafol ® Fe + must be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium levels in blood .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
PEDIATRIC USE Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® Fe + .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Take one purple softgel capsule daily during pregnancy , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® Fe + is available as a purple , oval shaped softgel capsule imprinted " EX0096 " .
Available in box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards containing 6 softgel capsules ) , Item No . 0642 - 7473 - 30 and as professional sample Item No . 0642 - 7473 - 01 ( blister card containing 3 softgel capsules ) Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) , light and moisture .
Please dispose of any unused capsules promptly , and properly .
You should call your doctor for medical advice about adverse or unexpected reactions .
To report to the company an adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 .
Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2021 Exeltis USA , Inc .
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease .
Vitafol ® is a trademark of Exeltis USA , Inc .
Metafolin ® is a trademark of Merck KGaA , Darmstadt , Germany .
U . S . Patent No . 6 , 441 , 168 ; 5 , 997 , 915 ; 6 , 254 , 904 ; 6 , 808 , 725 , 7 , 172 , 778 and 7 , 674 , 490 Issed : April 2021 4733001 - 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Capsule Dose Pack Box 0642 - 7473 - 30 VITAFOL Fe + Complete Prenatal Supplement with 90 mg iron Unit Dose Pack 30 Softgel Capsules RX DIETARY SUPPLEMENT U . S . Patent Pending [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
