[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin is a 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] and whose molecular weight is 227 . 09 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
The Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System is a unit designed to provide continuous controlled release of nitroglycerin through intact skin .
The rate of release of nitroglycerin is linearly dependent upon the area of the applied system ; each cm2 of applied system delivers approximately 0 . 03 mg of nitroglycerin per hour .
Thus , the 3 . 3 , 6 . 7 , 13 . 3 and 20 cm2 system delivers approximately 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 and 0 . 6 mg of nitroglycerin per hour , respectively .
The remainder of the nitroglycerin in each system serves as a reservoir and is not delivered in normal use .
After 12 hours , for example , each system has delivered about 14 % of its original content of nitroglycerin .
The Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System contains nitroglycerin as the active component .
The remaining components of the system ( acrylate copolymer adhesive , fatty acid esters , and polyethylene backing ) are pharmacologically inactive .
Each patch is packaged in foil / polymer film laminate .
Prior to use , a protective peel strip is removed from the adhesive surface .
Following use , the patch should be discarded in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by children or others .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of the vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours was their anti - anginal efficacy restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about 3 minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known . The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( non - vasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 - 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
In healthy volunteers , steady - state plasma concentrations of nitroglycerin are reached by about two hours after application of a patch and are maintained for the duration of wearing the system ( observations have been limited to 24 hours ) .
Upon removal of the patch , the plasma concentration declines with a half - life of about an hour .
Clinical Trials : Regimens in which nitroglycerin patches were worn for 12 hours daily have been studied in well - controlled trials up to 4 weeks in duration .
Starting about 2 hours after application and continuing until 10 - 12 hours after application , patches that deliver at least 0 . 4 mg of nitroglycerin per hour have consistently demonstrated greater anti - anginal activity than placebo .
Lower - dose patches have not been as well studied , but in one large , well - controlled trial in which higher - dose patches were also studied , patches delivering 0 . 2 mg / hr had significantly less anti - anginal activity than placebo .
It is reasonable to believe that the rate of nitroglycerin absorption from patches may vary with the site of application , but this relationship has not been adequately studied .
The onset action of transdermal nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Transdermal nitroglycerin is indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of transdermal nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute attack .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
Nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
Allergy to the adhesives used in nitroglycerin patches has also been reported , and it similarly constitutes a contraindication to the use of this product .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of transdermal nitroglycerin in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use nitroglycerin in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
A cardiovertor / defibrillator should not be discharged through a paddle electrode that overlies a Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System patch .
The arcing that may be seen in this situation is harmless in itself , but it may be associated with local current concentration that can cause damage to the paddles and burns to the patient .
PRECAUTIONS General : Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is somewhat blunted .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Several clinical trials in patients with angina pectoris have evaluated nitroglycerin regimens which incorporated a 10 - 12 hour nitrate - free interval .
In some of these trials , an increase in the frequency of anginal attacks during the nitrate - free interval was observed in a small number of patients .
In one trial , patients demonstrated decreased exercise tolerance at the end of the nitrate - free interval .
Hemodynamic rebound has been observed only rarely ; on the other hand , few studies were so designed that rebound , if it had occurred , would have been detected .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of transdermal nitroglycerin is unknown .
Information for Patients : Daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headache may be a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with nitroglycerin , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of anti - anginal efficacy .
Treatment with nitroglycerin may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
After normal use , there is enough residual nitroglycerin in discarded patches that they are a potential hazard to children and pets .
A patient leaflet is supplied with the systems .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Animal carcinogenesis studies with topically applied nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs 0 % in controls , and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs 8 % in controls .
Incidences of pituitary adenomas and female mammary tumors normally seen in aged rats were significantly reduced , consistent with treatment - related decrease in food intake and body weight ; increased life span was also seen in the high - dose females .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , p . o . , or in vitro cytogenetic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for 6 months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal teratology studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin transdermal systems .
Teratology studies in rats and rabbits , however , were conducted with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No toxic effects on dams or fetuses were seen at any dose tested .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose - related , and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients .
Methemoglobinemia is so infrequent at these doses that further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment is deferred ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Allergic reactions to nitroglycerin are also uncommon , and the great majority of those reported have been cases of contact dermatitis or fixed drug eruptions in patients receiving nitroglycerin in ointments or patches .
There have been a few reports of genuine anaphylactoid reactions , and these reactions can probably occur in patients receiving nitroglycerin by any route .
In two placebo - controlled trials of intermittent therapy with nitroglycerin patches at 0 . 2 to 0 . 8 mg / hr , the most frequent adverse reactions among 307 subjects were as follows : placebo patch headache 18 % 63 % lightheadedness 4 % 6 % hypotension and / or syncope 0 % 4 % increased angina 2 % 2 % OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects : The ill effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ' s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which – if any – of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward an increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 - 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The suggested starting dose is between 0 . 2 mg / hr and 0 . 4 mg / hr .
Doses between 0 . 4 mg / hr and 0 . 8 mg / hr have shown continued effectiveness for 10 - 12 hours daily for at least one month ( the longest period studied ) of intermittent administration .
Although the minimum nitrate - free interval has not been defined , data show that a nitrate - free interval of 10 - 12 hours is sufficient ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Thus , an appropriate dosing schedule for nitroglycerin patches would include a daily patch - on period of 12 - 14 hours and a daily patch - off period of 10 - 12 hours .
Although some well - controlled clinical trials using exercise tolerance testing have shown maintenance of effectiveness when patches are worn continuously , the large majority of such controlled trials have shown the development of tolerance ( i . e . , complete loss of effect ) within the first 24 hours after therapy was initiated .
Dose adjustment , even to levels much higher than generally used , did not restore efficacy .
PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR APPLICATION OF SYSTEM A patient leaflet is supplied with each carton .
HOW SUPPLIED Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System Rated Release In Vivo System Size Total Nitro - glycerin In System NDC Number 0 . 1 mg / hr 3 . 3 cm2 9 mg NDC - 29336 - 321 - 30 0 . 2 mg / hr 6 . 7 cm2 18 mg NDC - 29336 - 322 - 30 0 . 4 mg / hr 13 . 3 cm2 36 mg NDC - 29336 - 323 - 30 0 . 6 mg / hr 20 . 0 cm2 54 mg NDC - 29336 - 324 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System , 0 . 1 mg / hr , 0 . 2 mg / hr , 0 . 4 mg / hr , 0 . 6 mg / hr is available in cartons of 30 patches .
STORAGE CONDITIONS Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Extremes of temperature and / or humidity should be avoided .
Rx only US30 Rev . 4 - 07 Manufactured for : Graceway Pharmaceuticals , LLC Bristol , TN 37620 by : 3 M Drug Delivery Systems Northridge , CA 91324 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 29336 - 321 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System 0 . 1 mg / hr Contents : 1 System Each 3 . 3 cm2 sytem contains 9 mg of nitroglycerin .
Rated release in vivo , 0 . 1 mg / hr .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Graceway Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Bristol , TN 37620 by : 3 M Drug Delivery Systems , Northridge , CA 91324 438200 US23 Rev0407 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 29336 - 322 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System 0 . 2 mg / hr Contents : 1 System Each 6 . 7 cm2 sytem contains 18 mg of nitroglycerin .
Rated release in vivo , 0 . 2 mg / hr .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Graceway Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Bristol , TN 37620 by : 3 M Drug Delivery Systems , Northridge , CA 91324 438300 US24 Rev0407 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 29336 - 323 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System 0 . 4 mg / hr Contents : 1 System Each 13 . 3 cm2 sytem contains 36 mg of nitroglycerin .
Rated release in vivo , 0 . 4 mg / hr .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Graceway Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Bristol , TN 37620 by : 3 M Drug Delivery Systems , Northridge , CA 91324 438400 US26 Rev0407 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 29336 - 324 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Delivery System 0 . 6 mg / hr Contents : 1 System Each 20 cm2 sytem contains 54 mg of nitroglycerin .
Rated release in vivo , 0 . 6 mg / hr .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Graceway Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Bristol , TN 37620 by : 3 M Drug Delivery Systems , Northridge , CA 91324 438600 US27 Rev0407 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
