Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 15 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 10 . 0 % Oxybenzone 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of the reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
• Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including • limit time in the sun especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water , Glyceryl Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Butylene Glycol , PEG - 100 Stearate , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Benzyl Alcohol , Diethylhexyl Syringylidenemalonate , Behenyl Alcohol , Butylated PVP , Palmitic Acid , Stearic Acid , C12 - 16 Alcohols , Cellulose Gum , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Lecithin , Retinyl Palmitate , Tocopherol , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , Disodium EDTA , Chlorphenesin .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 503 - 639 - 6300 Principal Display Panel WESTERN FAMILY Broad Spectrum SPF 70 sunscreen lotion UVA / UVB protection moisturizing with vitamin e water resistant ( 80 minutes ) 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
