WARNING : SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of Major Depressive Disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of PRISTIQ ® or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
PRISTIQ is not approved for use in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children , adolescents and young adults taking antidepressants for major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
PRISTIQ is not approved for use in pediatric patients ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRISTIQ , a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor ( SNRI ) , is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The efficacy of PRISTIQ has been established in four 8 - week , placebo - controlled studies of outpatients who met DSM - IV criteria for major depressive disorder .
A major depressive episode ( DSM - IV ) implies a prominent and relatively persistent ( nearly every day for at least 2 weeks ) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning , and includes at least 5 of the following 9 symptoms : depressed mood , loss of interest in usual activities , significant change in weight and / or appetite , insomnia or hypersomnia , psychomotor agitation or retardation , increased fatigue , feelings of guilt or worthlessness , slowed thinking or impaired concentration , or a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation .
PRISTIQ , a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor ( SNRI ) , is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder [ MDD ] ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose : 50 mg once daily with or without food ( 2 . 1 ) .
• There was no evidence that doses greater than 50 mg / day confer any additional benefit ( 2 . 1 ) .
• When discontinuing treatment , gradual dose reduction is recommended whenever possible ( 2 . 1 and 5 . 9 ) .
• Tablets should be taken whole ; do not divide , crush , chew , or dissolve ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Renal Impairment : The recommended dose in patients with moderate renal impairment is 50 mg / day .
The recommended dose in patients with severe renal impairment and end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) is 50 mg every other day .
The dose should not be escalated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or ESRD ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Hepatic Impairment : Dose escalation above 100 mg / day is not recommended ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Initial Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder The recommended dose for PRISTIQ is 50 mg once daily , with or without food .
In clinical studies , doses of 50 - 400 mg / day were shown to be effective , although no additional benefit was demonstrated at doses greater than 50 mg / day and adverse events and discontinuations were more frequent at higher doses .
When discontinuing therapy , gradual dose reduction is recommended whenever possible to minimize discontinuation symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
PRISTIQ should be taken at approximately the same time each day .
Tablets must be swallowed whole with fluid and not divided , crushed , chewed , or dissolved .
2 . 2 Special Populations Pregnant women during the third trimester Neonates exposed to SNRIs or SSRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization , respiratory support , and tube feeding [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
When treating pregnant women with PRISTIQ during the third trimester , the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment .
The physician may consider tapering PRISTIQ in the third trimester .
Patients with renal impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment ( 24 - hr CrCl = 50 - 80 mL / min ) .
The recommended dose in patients with moderate renal impairment ( 24 - hr CrCl = 30 - 50 mL / min ) is 50 mg per day .
The recommended dose in patients with severe renal impairment ( 24 - hr CrCl < 30 mL / min ) or end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) is 50 mg every other day .
Supplemental doses should not be given to patients after dialysis .
The doses should not be escalated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment , or ESRD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with hepatic impairment The recommended dose in patients with hepatic impairment is 50 mg / day .
Dose escalation above 100 mg / day is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
Elderly patients No dosage adjustment is required solely on the basis of age ; however , the possibility of reduced renal clearance of PRISTIQ should be considered when determining the dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 3 Maintenance / Continuation / Extended Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy .
However , the longer - term efficacy of PRISTIQ at a dose of 50 mg / day that was effective in short - term , controlled studies has not been studied .
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment .
2 . 4 Discontinuing PRISTIQ Symptoms associated with discontinuation of PRISTIQ , other SNRIs and SSRIs have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment .
A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible .
If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment , then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered .
Subsequently , the physician may continue decreasing the dose , but at a more gradual rate .
2 . 5 Switching Patients From Other Antidepressants to PRISTIQ Discontinuation symptoms have been reported when switching patients from other antidepressants , including venlafaxine , to PRISTIQ .
Tapering of the initial antidepressant may be necessary to minimize discontinuation symptoms [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 6 Switching Patients To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI and initiation of therapy with PRISTIQ .
In addition , at least 7 days must be allowed after stopping PRISTIQ before starting an MAOI [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS PRISTIQ ® ( desvenlafaxine ) Extended - Release Tablets are available as 50 and 100 mg tablets .
50 mg , light pink , square pyramid tablet debossed with “ W ” over “ 50 ” on the flat side 100 mg , reddish - orange , square pyramid tablet debossed with “ W ” over “ 100 ” on the flat side • PRISTIQ tablets are available as 50 and 100 mg tablets ( 3 ) .
• Each tablet contains 76 mg or 152 mg of desvenlafaxine succinate equivalent to 50 mg or 100 mg of desvenlafaxine ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to desvenlafaxine succinate , venlafaxine hydrochloride or any excipients in the PRISTIQ formulation ( 4 . 1 ) .
• Do not use with an MAOI or within 14 days of stopping an MAOI .
Allow 7 days after stopping PRISTIQ before starting an MAOI ( 4 . 2 ) .
4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to desvenlafaxine succinate , venlafaxine hydrochloride or to any excipients in the PRISTIQ formulation .
4 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors PRISTIQ must not be used concomitantly in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days due to the risk of serious , sometimes fatal , drug interactions with SNRI or SSRI treatment or with other serotonergic drugs .
These interactions have been associated with symptoms that include tremor , myoclonus , diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting , flushing , dizziness , hyperthermia with features resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome , seizures , rigidity , autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs , and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma .
Based on the half - life of desvenlafaxine , at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping PRISTIQ before starting an MAOI [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Clinical Worsening / Suicide Risk : Monitor for clinical worsening and suicide risk ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Serotonin Syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like Reactions : Serotonin syndrome or NMS - like reactions have been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs .
Discontinue PRISTIQ and initiate supportive treatment ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Elevated Blood Pressure : Has occurred with PRISTIQ .
Hypertension should be controlled before initiating treatment .
Monitor blood pressure regularly during treatment ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Abnormal Bleeding : PRISTIQ may increase the risk of bleeding events .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of PRISTIQ and NSAIDs , aspirin , or other drugs that affect coagulation ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Narrow - angle Glaucoma : Mydriasis has occurred with PRISTIQ .
Patients with raised intraocular pressure or those at risk of angle - closure glaucoma should be monitored ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Activation of Mania / Hypomania : Has occurred .
Use cautiously in patients with Bipolar Disorder .
Caution patients about the risk of activation of mania / hypomania ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Cardiovascular / Cerebrovascular Disease : Use cautiously in patients with cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease ( 5 . 7 ) .
• Cholesterol and Triglyceride Elevation : Have occurred .
Use cautiously in patients with lipid metabolism disorders .
Consider monitoring serum cholesterol and triglyceride ( 5 . 8 ) .
• Discontinuation Symptoms : Have occurred .
Taper the dose when possible and monitor for discontinuation symptoms ( 5 . 9 ) .
• Renal Impairment : Reduces the clearance of PRISTIQ .
Dosage adjustment is necessary in severe and ESRD .
In moderate renal impairment , the dose should not exceed 50 mg / day ( 5 . 10 ) .
• Seizure : Can occur .
Use cautiously in patients with seizure disorder ( 5 . 11 ) .
• Hyponatremia : Can occur in association with SIADH ( 5 . 12 ) .
• Drugs Containing Desvenlafaxine or Venlafaxine : Should not be used concomitantly with PRISTIQ ( 5 . 13 ) .
• Interstitial Lung Disease and Eosinophilic Pneumonia : Can occur ( 5 . 14 ) .
5 . 1 Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled studies of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 - 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled studies in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term studies of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4 , 400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled studies in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term studies ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs . placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 - 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 - 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric studies .
There were suicides in the adult studies , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance studies in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment , medication should be tapered , as rapidly as is feasible , but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) for a description of the risks of discontinuation of PRISTIQ ] .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for PRISTIQ should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening patients for bipolar disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled studies ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that PRISTIQ is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like Reactions The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like reactions have been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs alone , including PRISTIQ treatment , but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( including triptans ) with drugs which impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) , or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Serotonin syndrome , in its most severe form can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome , which includes hyperthermia , muscle rigidity , autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuation of vital signs , and mental status changes .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or NMS - like signs and symptoms .
The concomitant use of PRISTIQ with MAOIs intended to treat depression is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
If concomitant treatment of PRISTIQ with a 5 - hydroxytryptamine receptor agonist ( triptan ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
The concomitant use of PRISTIQ with serotonin precursors ( such as tryptophan ) is not recommended .
Treatment with PRISTIQ and any concomitant serotonergic or antidopaminergic agents , including antipsychotics , should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated .
5 . 3 Elevated Blood Pressure Patients receiving PRISTIQ should have regular monitoring of blood pressure since increases in blood pressure were observed in clinical studies .
Pre - existing hypertension should be controlled before initiating treatment with PRISTIQ .
Caution should be exercised in treating patients with pre - existing hypertension or other underlying conditions that might be compromised by increases in blood pressure .
Cases of elevated blood pressure requiring immediate treatment have been reported with PRISTIQ .
Sustained hypertension Sustained blood pressure increases could have adverse consequences .
For patients who experience a sustained increase in blood pressure while receiving PRISTIQ , either dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment with PRISTIQ at all doses from 50 mg / day to 400 mg / day in controlled studies was associated with sustained hypertension , defined as treatment - emergent supine diastolic blood pressure ( SDBP ) ≥ 90 mm Hg and ≥ 10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive on - therapy visits ( see Table 2 ) .
Analyses of patients in PRISTIQ controlled studies who met criteria for sustained hypertension revealed a consistent increase in the proportion of patients who developed sustained hypertension .
This was seen at all doses with a suggestion of a higher rate at 400 mg / day .
Table 2 : Proportion of Patients with Sustained Elevation of Supine Diastolic Blood Pressure Treatment Group Proportion of Patients with Sustained Hypertension Placebo 0 . 5 % PRISTIQ 50 mg / day 1 . 3 % PRISTIQ 100 mg / day 0 . 7 % PRISTIQ 200 mg / day 1 . 1 % PRISTIQ 400 mg / day 2 . 3 % 5 . 4 Abnormal Bleeding SSRIs and SNRIs , including PRISTIQ , may increase the risk of bleeding events .
Concomitant use of aspirin , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , warfarin , and other anticoagulants may add to this risk .
Case reports and epidemiological studies ( case - control and cohort design ) have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding .
Bleeding events related to SSRIs and SNRIs have ranged from ecchymosis , hematoma , epistaxis , and petechiae to life - threatening hemorrhages .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of PRISTIQ and NSAIDs , aspirin , or other drugs that affect coagulation or bleeding .
5 . 5 Narrow - angle Glaucoma Mydriasis has been reported in association with PRISTIQ ; therefore , patients with raised intraocular pressure or those at risk of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( angle - closure glaucoma ) should be monitored .
5 . 6 Activation of Mania / Hypomania During all MDD and VMS ( vasomotor symptoms ) phase 2 and phase 3 studies , mania was reported for approximately 0 . 1 % of patients treated with PRISTIQ .
Activation of mania / hypomania has also been reported in a small proportion of patients with major affective disorder who were treated with other marketed antidepressants .
As with all antidepressants , PRISTIQ should be used cautiously in patients with a history or family history of mania or hypomania .
5 . 7 Cardiovascular / Cerebrovascular Disease Caution is advised in administering PRISTIQ to patients with cardiovascular , cerebrovascular , or lipid metabolism disorders [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Increases in blood pressure and small increases in heart rate were observed in clinical studies with PRISTIQ .
PRISTIQ has not been evaluated systematically in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction , unstable heart disease , uncontrolled hypertension , or cerebrovascular disease .
Patients with these diagnoses , except for cerebrovascular disease , were excluded from clinical studies .
5 . 8 Serum Cholesterol and Triglyceride Elevation Dose - related elevations in fasting serum total cholesterol , LDL ( low density lipoprotein ) cholesterol , and triglycerides were observed in the controlled studies .
Measurement of serum lipids should be considered during treatment with PRISTIQ [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 9 Discontinuation of Treatment with PRISTIQ Discontinuation symptoms have been systematically and prospectively evaluated in patients treated with PRISTIQ during clinical studies in Major Depressive Disorder .
Abrupt discontinuation or dose reduction has been associated with the appearance of new symptoms that include dizziness , nausea , headache , irritability , insomnia , diarrhea , anxiety , fatigue , abnormal dreams , and hyperhidrosis .
In general , discontinuation events occurred more frequently with longer duration of therapy .
During marketing of SNRIs ( Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors ) , and SSRIs ( Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ) , there have been spontaneous reports of adverse events occurring upon discontinuation of these drugs , particularly when abrupt , including the following : dysphoric mood , irritability , agitation , dizziness , sensory disturbances ( e . g . , paresthesia , such as electric shock sensations ) , anxiety , confusion , headache , lethargy , emotional lability , insomnia , hypomania , tinnitus , and seizures .
While these events are generally self - limiting , there have been reports of serious discontinuation symptoms .
Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment with PRISTIQ .
A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible .
If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment , then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered .
Subsequently , the physician may continue decreasing the dose , but at a more gradual rate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Renal Impairment In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) the clearance of PRISTIQ was decreased , thus prolonging the elimination half - life of the drug .
As a result , there were potentially clinically significant increases in exposures to PRISTIQ [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
Dosage adjustment ( 50 mg every other day ) is necessary in patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD .
The doses should not be escalated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or ESRD [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 11 Seizure Cases of seizure have been reported in pre - marketing clinical studies with PRISTIQ .
PRISTIQ has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
Patients with a history of seizures were excluded from pre - marketing clinical studies .
PRISTIQ should be prescribed with caution in patients with a seizure disorder .
5 . 12 Hyponatremia Hyponatremia may occur as a result of treatment with SSRIs and SNRIs , including PRISTIQ .
In many cases , this hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) .
Cases with serum sodium lower than 110 mmol / L have been reported .
Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with SSRIs and SNRIs .
Also , patients taking diuretics or who are otherwise volume depleted can be at greater risk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
Discontinuation of PRISTIQ should be considered in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia and appropriate medical intervention should be instituted .
Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache , difficulty concentrating , memory impairment , confusion , weakness , and unsteadiness , which can lead to falls .
Signs and symptoms associated with more severe and / or acute cases have included hallucination , syncope , seizure , coma , respiratory arrest , and death .
5 . 13 Co - administration of Drugs Containing Desvenlafaxine and Venlafaxine Desvenlafaxine is the major active metabolite of venlafaxine .
Products containing desvenlafaxine and products containing venlafaxine should not be used concomitantly with PRISTIQ .
5 . 14 Interstitial Lung Disease and Eosinophilic Pneumonia Interstitial lung disease and eosinophilic pneumonia associated with venlafaxine ( the parent drug of PRISTIQ ) therapy have been rarely reported .
The possibility of these adverse events should be considered in patients treated with PRISTIQ who present with progressive dyspnea , cough , or chest discomfort .
Such patients should undergo a prompt medical evaluation , and discontinuation of PRISTIQ should be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label ; • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] • Effects on blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Abnormal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Mydriasis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypomania and mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Serum cholesterol and triglyceride elevation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Seizure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Adverse reactions in patients in short - term fixed - dose studies ( incidence ≥ 5 % and twice the rate of placebo in the 50 or 100 mg dose groups ) were : nausea , dizziness , insomnia , hyperhidrosis , constipation , somnolence , decreased appetite , anxiety , and specific male sexual function disorders ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 934 - 5556 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience The most commonly observed adverse reactions in PRISTIQ treated MDD patients in short - term fixed - dose studies ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo in the 50 or 100 mg dose groups ) were : nausea , dizziness , insomnia , hyperhidrosis , constipation , somnolence , decreased appetite , anxiety , and specific male sexual function disorders .
Adverse reactions reported as reasons for discontinuation of treatment Combined across 8 - week placebo - controlled pre - marketing studies for major depressive disorder , 12 % of the 1 , 834 patients who received PRISTIQ ( 50 - 400 mg ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse event , compared with 3 % of the 1 , 116 placebo - treated patients in those studies .
At the recommended dose of 50 mg , the discontinuation rate due to an adverse event for PRISTIQ ( 4 . 1 % ) was similar to the rate for placebo ( 3 . 8 % ) .
For the 100 mg dose of PRISTIQ the discontinuation rate due to an adverse event was 8 . 7 % .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in at least 2 % of the PRISTIQ treated patients in the short - term studies , up to 8 weeks , were : nausea ( 4 % ) ; dizziness , headache and vomiting ( 2 % each ) ; in the long - term study , up to 9 months , the most common was vomiting ( 2 % ) .
Patient exposure PRISTIQ was evaluated for safety in 3 , 292 patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder who participated in multiple - dose pre - marketing studies , representing 1 , 289 patient - years of exposure .
Among these 3 , 292 PRISTIQ treated patients , 1 , 834 patients were exposed to PRISTIQ in 8 - week , placebo - controlled studies at doses ranging from 50 to 400 mg / day .
Out of the 1 , 834 patients , 687 PRISTIQ treated patients continued into a 10 - month open - label study .
Of the total 3 , 292 patients exposed to at least one dose of PRISTIQ , 1 , 070 were exposed to PRISTIQ for 6 months , representing 842 patient - years of exposure , and 274 were exposed for one year , representing 241 patient - years of exposure .
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Common adverse reactions in placebo - controlled MDD studies Table 3 shows the incidence of common adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of PRISTIQ treated MDD patients at any dose in the 8 - week , placebo - controlled , fixed dose , pre - marketing clinical studies .
In general , the adverse reactions were most frequent in the first week of treatment .
Table 3 : Common Adverse Reactions : Percentage of Patients ( ≥ 2 % in any Fixed - Dose Group ) in MDD 8 ‑ Week Placebo - Controlled Studiesa Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction PRISTIQ System Organ Class Preferred Term Placebo 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 400 mg Cardiac disorders Palpitations 2 1 3 2 3 Tachycardia 1 1 < 1 1 2 Blood pressure increased 1 1 1 2 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 10 22 26 36 41 Dry mouth 9 11 17 21 25 Diarrhea 9 11 9 7 5 Constipation 4 9 9 10 14 Vomiting 3 3 4 6 9 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 4 7 7 10 11 Chills 1 1 < 1 3 4 Feeling jittery 1 1 2 3 3 Asthenia 1 1 2 1 1 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 2 5 8 10 10 Weight decreased 1 2 1 1 2 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 5 13 10 15 16 Somnolence 4 4 9 12 12 Headache 23 20 22 29 25 Tremor 2 2 3 9 9 Paraesthesia 1 2 2 1 3 Disturbance in attention < 1 < 1 1 2 1 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 6 9 12 14 15 Anxiety 2 3 5 4 4 Nervousness 1 < 1 1 2 2 Irritability 1 2 2 2 2 Abnormal dreams 1 2 3 2 4 Renal and urinary disorders Urinary hesitation 0 < 1 1 2 2 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Yawning < 1 1 1 4 3 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hyperhidrosis 4 10 11 18 21 Rash < 1 1 1 2 < 1 Special Senses Vision blurred 1 3 4 4 4 Mydriasis < 1 2 2 6 6 Vertigo 1 2 1 5 3 Tinnitus 1 2 1 1 2 Dysgeusia 1 1 1 1 2 Vascular disorders Hot flush < 1 1 1 2 2 a : Percentage based on the number of patients ( placebo , n = 636 ; PRISTIQ 50 mg , n = 317 ; PRISTIQ 100 mg , n = 424 ; PRISTIQ 200 mg , n = 307 ; PRISTIQ 400 mg , n = 317 ) .
Sexual function adverse reactions Table 4 shows the incidence of sexual function adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of PRISTIQ treated MDD patients in any fixed - dose group ( 8 - week , placebo - controlled , fixed and flexible - dose , pre - marketing clinical studies ) .
Table 4 : Sexual Function Disorders : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % in Mena or Womenb in any PRISTIQ Group ) During the On - Therapy Period PRISTIQ System Organ Class Preferred Term Placebo 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 400 mg a : Percentage based on the number of men ( placebo , n = 239 ; PRISTIQ 50 mg , n = 108 ; PRISTIQ 100 mg , n = 157 ; PRISTIQ 200 mg , n = 131 ; PRISTIQ 400 mg , n = 154 ) .
b : Percentage based on the number of women ( placebo , n = 397 ; PRISTIQ 50 mg , n = 209 ; PRISTIQ 100 mg , n = 267 ; PRISTIQ 200 mg , n = 176 ; PRISTIQ 400 mg , n = 163 ) .
Men only Anorgasmia 0 0 3 5 8 Libido decreased 1 4 5 6 3 Orgasm abnormal 0 0 1 2 3 Ejaculation delayed < 1 1 5 7 6 Erectile dysfunction 1 3 6 8 11 Ejaculation disorder 0 0 1 2 5 Ejaculation failure 0 1 0 2 2 Sexual dysfunction 0 1 0 0 2 Women only Anorgasmia 0 1 1 0 3 Other adverse reactions observed in pre - marketing clinical studies Other infrequent adverse reactions , not described elsewhere in section 6 . 1 , occurring at an incidence of < 2 % in MDD patients treated with PRISTIQ were : Immune system disorders – Hypersensitivity .
Investigations – Weight increased , liver function test abnormal , blood prolactin increased .
Nervous system disorders – Convulsion , syncope , extrapyramidal disorder .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders – Musculoskeletal stiffness .
Psychiatric disorders – Depersonalization , hypomania , bruxism .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders – Epistaxis .
Vascular disorders – Orthostatic hypotension .
In clinical studies , there were uncommon reports of ischemic cardiac adverse events , including myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , and coronary occlusion requiring revascularization ; these patients had multiple underlying cardiac risk factors .
More patients experienced these events during PRISTIQ treatment as compared to placebo [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Discontinuation events Adverse events reported in association with abrupt discontinuation , dose reduction or tapering of treatment in MDD clinical studies at a rate of ≥ 5 % include : dizziness , nausea , headache , irritability , insomnia , diarrhea , anxiety , abnormal dreams , fatigue , and hyperhidrosis .
In general , discontinuation events occurred more frequently with longer duration of therapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Laboratory , ECG and vital sign changes observed in MDD clinical studies The following changes were observed in placebo - controlled , short - term , pre - marketing MDD studies with PRISTIQ .
Lipids Elevations in fasting serum total cholesterol , LDL ( low density lipoproteins ) cholesterol , and triglycerides occurred in the controlled studies .
Some of these abnormalities were considered potentially clinically significant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
The percentage of patients who exceeded a predetermined threshold value is shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Incidence ( % ) of Patients With Lipid Abnormalities of Potential Clinical Significance * PRISTIQ Placebo 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 400 mg Total Cholesterol * ( Increase of ≥ 50 mg / dl and an absolute value of ≥ 261 mg / dl ) 2 3 4 4 10 LDL Cholesterol * ( Increase ≥ 50 mg / dl and an absolute value of ≥ 190 mg / dl ) 0 1 0 1 2 Triglycerides , fasting * ( Fasting : ≥ 327 mg / dl ) 3 2 1 4 6 Proteinuria Proteinuria , greater than or equal to trace , was observed in the fixed - dose controlled studies ( see Table 6 ) .
This proteinuria was not associated with increases in BUN or creatinine and was generally transient .
Table 6 : Incidence ( % ) of Patients with Proteinuria in the Fixed - dose Clinical Studies PRISTIQ Placebo 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 400 mg Proteinuria 4 6 8 5 7 ECG changes Electrocardiograms were obtained from 1 , 492 PRISTIQ treated patients with major depressive disorder and 984 placebo - treated patients in clinical studies lasting up to 8 weeks .
No clinically relevant differences were observed between PRISTIQ treated and placebo - treated patients for QT , QTc , PR , and QRS intervals .
In a thorough QTc study with prospectively determined criteria , desvenlafaxine did not cause QT prolongation .
No difference was observed between placebo and desvenlafaxine treatments for the QRS interval .
Vital sign changes Table 7 summarizes the changes that were observed in placebo - controlled , short - term , pre - marketing studies with PRISTIQ in patients with MDD ( doses 50 to 400 mg ) .
Table 7 : Mean Changes in Vital Signs at Final on Therapy for All Short - term , Fixed - dose Controlled Studies PRISTIQ Placebo 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 400 mg Blood pressure Supine systolic bp ( mm Hg ) - 1 . 4 1 . 2 2 . 0 2 . 5 2 . 1 Supine diastolic bp ( mm Hg ) - 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 1 . 8 2 . 3 Pulse rate Supine pulse ( bpm ) - 0 . 3 1 . 3 1 . 3 0 . 9 4 . 1 Weight ( kg ) 0 . 0 - 0 . 4 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 9 - 1 . 1 At the final on - therapy assessment in the 6 - month , double - blind , placebo - controlled phase of a long - term study in patients who had responded to PRISTIQ during the initial 12 - week , open - label phase , there was no statistical difference in mean weight change between PRISTIQ and placebo - treated patients .
Orthostatic hypotension In the short - term , placebo - controlled clinical studies with doses of 50 - 400 mg , systolic orthostatic hypotension ( decrease ≥ 30 mm Hg from supine to standing position ) occurred more frequently in patients ≥ 65 years of age receiving PRISTIQ ( 8 . 0 % , 7 / 87 ) versus placebo ( 2 . 5 % , 1 / 40 ) , compared to patients < 65 years of age receiving PRISTIQ ( 0 . 9 % , 18 / 1 , 937 ) versus placebo ( 0 . 7 % , 8 / 1 , 218 ) .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Identified During Post - Approval Use The following adverse reaction has been identified during post - approval use of PRISTIQ .
Because post - approval reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders – Angioedema .
6 . 3 Adverse Reactions Reported With Other SNRIs Although the following are not considered adverse reactions for PRISTIQ , they are adverse reactions for other SNRIs and may also occur with PRISTIQ : gastrointestinal bleeding , hallucinations , photosensitivity reactions and severe cutaneous reactions ( such as Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and / or erythema multiforme ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Central Nervous System ( CNS ) - Active Agents The risk of using PRISTIQ in combination with other CNS - active drugs has not been systematically evaluated .
Consequently , caution is advised when PRISTIQ is taken in combination with other CNS - active drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) Adverse reactions , some of which were serious , have been reported in patients who have recently been discontinued from a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) and started on antidepressants with pharmacological properties similar to PRISTIQ ( SNRIs or SSRIs ) , or who have recently had SNRI or SSRI therapy discontinued prior to initiation of an MAOI [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 3 Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of PRISTIQ and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when PRISTIQ is co - administered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis ( e . g . , NSAIDs , Aspirin , and Warfarin ) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis .
Epidemiological studies of case - control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding .
These studies have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding .
Altered anticoagulant effects , including increased bleeding , have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin .
Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when PRISTIQ is initiated or discontinued .
7 . 5 Ethanol A clinical study has shown that desvenlafaxine does not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by ethanol .
However , as with all CNS - active drugs , patients should be advised to avoid alcohol consumption while taking PRISTIQ .
7 . 6 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Desvenlafaxine Inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( ketoconazole ) CYP3A4 is a minor pathway for the metabolism of PRISTIQ .
In a clinical study , ketoconazole ( 200 mg BID ) increased the area under the concentration vs . time curve ( AUC ) of PRISTIQ ( 400 mg single dose ) by about 43 % and Cmax by about 8 % .
Concomitant use of PRISTIQ with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may result in higher concentrations of PRISTIQ .
Inhibitors of other CYP enzymes Based on in vitro data , drugs that inhibit CYP isozymes 1A1 , 1A2 , 2A6 , 2D6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , and 2E1 are not expected to have significant impact on the pharmacokinetic profile of PRISTIQ .
7 . 7 Potential for Desvenlafaxine to Affect Other Drugs Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( desipramine ) In vitro studies showed minimal inhibitory effect of desvenlafaxine on CYP2D6 .
Clinical studies have shown that desvenlafaxine does not have a clinically relevant effect on CYP2D6 metabolism at the dose of 100 mg daily .
When desvenlafaxine succinate was administered at a dose of 100 mg daily in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine , a CYP2D6 substrate , the Cmax and AUC of desipramine increased approximately 25 % and 17 % , respectively .
When 400 mg ( 8 times the recommended 50 mg dose ) was administered , the Cmax and AUC of desipramine increased approximately 50 % and 90 % , respectively .
Concomitant use of desvenlafaxine with a drug metabolized by CYP2D6 can result in higher concentrations of that drug .
Drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 ( midazolam ) In vitro , desvenlafaxine does not inhibit or induce the CYP3A4 isozyme .
In a clinical study , PRISTIQ 400 mg daily ( 8 times the recommended 50 mg dose ) was co ‑ administered with a single 4 mg dose of midazolam ( a CYP3A4 substrate ) .
The AUC and Cmax of midazolam decreased by approximately 31 % and 16 % , respectively .
Concomitant use of PRISTIQ with a drug metabolized by CYP3A4 can result in lower exposures to that drug .
Drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2C8 , 2C9 and 2C19 In vitro , desvenlafaxine does not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , and 2C19 isozymes and would not be expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are metabolized by these CYP isozymes .
7 . 8 P - glycoprotein Transporter In vitro , desvenlafaxine is not a substrate or an inhibitor for the P - glycoprotein transporter .
The pharmacokinetics of PRISTIQ are unlikely to be affected by drugs that inhibit the P ‑ glycoprotein transporter , and desvenlafaxine is not likely to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of the P - glycoprotein transporter .
7 . 9 Electroconvulsive Therapy There are no clinical data establishing the risks and / or benefits of electroconvulsive therapy combined with PRISTIQ treatment .
7 . 10 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions False - positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine ( PCP ) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking desvenlafaxine .
This is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests .
False positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of desvenlafaxine therapy .
Confirmatory tests , such as gas chromatography / mass spectrometry , will distinguish desvenlafaxine from PCP and amphetamine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment and end - stage renal disease .
The dose should not be escalated in moderate to severe impairment or in ESRD ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 and 12 . 6 ) .
• There is an increased incidence of orthostatic hypotension in PRISTIQ treated patients ≥ 65 years ( 6 . 1 and 8 . 5 ) .
• For elderly patients , the possibility of reduced renal clearance of desvenlafaxine should be considered when determining dose ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Only administer PRISTIQ to pregnant or breastfeeding women if the expected benefits outweigh the possible risks ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy .
Teratogenic effects – Pregnancy Category C When desvenlafaxine succinate was administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis , there was no evidence of teratogenicity in rats at any doses tested , up to 10 times a human dose of 100 mg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis ) in rats , and up to 15 times a human dose of 100 mg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis ) in rabbits .
However , fetal weights were decreased in rats , with a no - effect dose 10 times a human dose of 100 mg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis ) .
When desvenlafaxine succinate was administered orally to pregnant rats throughout gestation and lactation , there was a decrease in pup weights and an increase in pup deaths during the first four days of lactation .
The cause of these deaths is not known .
The no - effect dose for rat pup mortality was 10 times a human dose of 100 mg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Post - weaning growth and reproductive performance of the progeny were not affected by maternal treatment with desvenlafaxine at a dose 29 times a human dose of 100 mg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of PRISTIQ in pregnant women .
Therefore , PRISTIQ should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefits justify the potential risks .
Non - teratogenic effects Neonates exposed to SNRIs ( Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors ) , or SSRIs ( Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ) , late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization , respiratory support , and tube feeding .
Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery .
Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress , cyanosis , apnea , seizures , temperature instability , feeding difficulty , vomiting , hypoglycemia , hypotonia , hypertonia , hyperreflexia , tremor , jitteriness , irritability , and constant crying .
These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or , possibly , a drug discontinuation syndrome .
It should be noted that , in some cases , the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
When treating a pregnant woman with PRISTIQ during the third trimester , the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effect of PRISTIQ on labor and delivery in humans is unknown .
PRISTIQ should be used during labor and delivery only if the potential benefits justify the potential risks .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Desvenlafaxine ( O - desmethylvenlafaxine ) is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from PRISTIQ , a decision should be made whether or not to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Only administer PRISTIQ to breastfeeding women if the expected benefits outweigh any possible risk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established [ see Box Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Anyone considering the use of PRISTIQ in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 3 , 292 patients in clinical studies with PRISTIQ , 5 % were 65 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between these patients and younger patients ; however , in the short - term , placebo - controlled studies , there was a higher incidence of systolic orthostatic hypotension in patients ≥ 65 years of age compared to patients < 65 years of age treated with PRISTIQ [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
For elderly patients , possible reduced renal clearance of desvenlafaxine should be considered when determining dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
If PRISTIQ is poorly tolerated , every other day dosing can be considered .
SSRIs and SNRIs , including PRISTIQ , have been associated with cases of clinically significant hyponatremia in elderly patients , who may be at greater risk for this adverse event [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In subjects with renal impairment the clearance of PRISTIQ was decreased .
In subjects with severe renal impairment ( 24 - hr CrCl < 30 mL / min ) and end - stage renal disease , elimination half - lives were significantly prolonged , increasing exposures to PRISTIQ ; therefore , dosage adjustment is recommended in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The mean t1 / 2 changed from approximately 10 hours in healthy subjects and subjects with mild hepatic impairment to 13 and 14 hours in moderate and severe hepatic impairment , respectively .
The recommended dose in patients with hepatic impairment is 50 mg / day .
Dose escalation above 100 mg / day is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Desvenlafaxine is not a controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse and Dependence Although PRISTIQ has not been systematically studied in preclinical or clinical studies for its potential for abuse , no indication of drug - seeking behavior was seen in the clinical studies .
However , it is not possible to predict on the basis of pre - marketing experience , the extent to which a CNS - active drug will be misused , diverted , and / or abused once marketed .
Consequently , physicians should carefully evaluate patients for a history of drug abuse and follow such patients closely , observing them for signs of misuse or abuse of PRISTIQ ( e . g . , development of tolerance , incrementation of dose , drug - seeking behavior ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Human Experience with Overdosage There is limited clinical experience with desvenlafaxine succinate overdosage in humans .
In pre - marketing clinical studies , no cases of fatal acute overdose of desvenlafaxine were reported .
Among the patients included in the MDD pre - marketing studies of PRISTIQ , there were four adults who ingested desvenlafaxine succinate ( 4000 mg [ desvenlafaxine alone ] , 900 , 1800 and 5200 mg [ in combination with other drugs ] ) ; all patients recovered .
In addition , one patient ' s 11 - month - old child accidentally ingested 600 mg of desvenlafaxine succinate , was treated , and recovered .
The adverse reactions reported within 5 days of an overdose > 600 mg that were possibly related to PRISTIQ included : headache , vomiting , agitation , dizziness , nausea , constipation , diarrhea , dry mouth , paresthesia , and tachycardia .
Desvenlafaxine ( PRISTIQ ) is the major active metabolite of venlafaxine .
Overdose experience reported with venlafaxine ( the parent drug of PRISTIQ ) is presented below ; the identical information can be found in the Overdosage section of the venlafaxine package insert .
In postmarketing experience , overdose with venlafaxine ( the parent drug of PRISTIQ ) has occurred predominantly in combination with alcohol and / or other drugs .
The most commonly reported events in overdosage include tachycardia , changes in level of consciousness ( ranging from somnolence to coma ) , mydriasis , seizures , and vomiting .
Electrocardiogram changes ( e . g . , prolongation of QT interval , bundle branch block , QRS prolongation ) , sinus and ventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , hypotension , rhabdomyolysis , vertigo , liver necrosis , serotonin syndrome , and death have been reported .
Published retrospective studies report that venlafaxine overdosage may be associated with an increased risk of fatal outcomes compared to that observed with SSRI antidepressant products , but lower than that for tricyclic antidepressants .
Epidemiological studies have shown that venlafaxine - treated patients have a higher pre - existing burden of suicide risk factors than SSRI - treated patients .
The extent to which the finding of an increased risk of fatal outcomes can be attributed to the toxicity of venlafaxine in overdosage , as opposed to some characteristic ( s ) of venlafaxine - treated patients , is not clear .
Prescriptions for PRISTIQ should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
10 . 2 Management of Overdosage Treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any SSRI / SNRI .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
General supportive and symptomatic measures are also recommended .
Gastric lavage with a large - bore orogastric tube with appropriate airway protection , if needed , may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic patients .
Activated charcoal should be administered .
Induction of emesis is not recommended .
Because of the moderate volume of distribution of this drug , forced diuresis , dialysis , hemoperfusion , and exchange transfusion are unlikely to be of benefit .
No specific antidotes for desvenlafaxine are known .
In managing an overdose , consider the possibility of multiple drug involvement .
The physician should consider contacting a poison control center for additional information on the treatment of any overdose .
Telephone numbers for certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians Desk Reference ® ( PDR ) .
11 DESCRIPTION PRISTIQ is an extended - release tablet for oral administration that contains desvenlafaxine succinate , a structurally novel SNRI for the treatment of MDD .
Desvenlafaxine ( O ‑ desmethylvenlafaxine ) is the major active metabolite of the antidepressant venlafaxine , a medication used to treat major depressive , generalized anxiety , social anxiety and panic disorders .
Desvenlafaxine is designated RS - 4 - [ 2 - dimethylamino - 1 - ( 1 - hydroxycyclohexyl ) ethyl ] phenol and has the empirical formula of C16H25NO2 ( free base ) and C16H25NO2 • C4H6O4 • H2O ( succinate monohydrate ) .
Desvenlafaxine succinate monohydrate has a molecular weight of 399 . 48 .
The structural formula is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Desvenlafaxine succinate is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water .
The solubility of desvenlafaxine succinate is pH dependent .
Its octanol : aqueous system ( at pH 7 . 0 ) partition coefficient is 0 . 21 .
PRISTIQ is formulated as an extended - release tablet for once - a - day oral administration .
Each tablet contains 76 or 152 mg of desvenlafaxine succinate equivalent to 50 or 100 mg of desvenlafaxine , respectively .
Inactive ingredients for the 50 mg tablet consist of hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , magnesium stearate and film coating , which consists of polyvinyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol , talc , titanium dioxide , and iron oxides .
Inactive ingredients for the 100 mg tablet consist of hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , magnesium stearate and film coating , which consists of polyvinyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide and FD & C yellow # 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Non - clinical studies have shown that desvenlafaxine succinate is a potent and selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor ( SNRI ) .
The clinical efficacy of desvenlafaxine succinate is thought to be related to the potentiation of these neurotransmitters in the central nervous system .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Desvenlafaxine lacked significant affinity for numerous receptors , including muscarinic - cholinergic , H1 - histaminergic , or α1 - adrenergic receptors in vitro .
PRISTIQ also lacked monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitory activity .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The single - dose pharmacokinetics of desvenlafaxine are linear and dose - proportional in a dose range of 100 to 600 mg / day .
The mean terminal half - life , t1 / 2 , is approximately 11 hours .
With once - daily dosing , steady - state plasma concentrations are achieved within approximately 4 - 5 days .
At steady - state , multiple - dose accumulation of desvenlafaxine is linear and predictable from the single - dose pharmacokinetic profile .
12 . 4 Absorption and Distribution The absolute oral bioavailability of PRISTIQ after oral administration is about 80 % .
Mean time to peak plasma concentrations ( Tmax ) is about 7 . 5 hours after oral administration .
A food - effect study involving administration of PRISTIQ to healthy subjects under fasting and fed conditions ( high - fat meal ) indicated that the Cmax was increased about 16 % in the fed state , while the AUCs were similar .
This difference is not clinically significant ; therefore , PRISTIQ can be taken without regard to meals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The plasma protein binding of desvenlafaxine is low ( 30 % ) and is independent of drug concentration .
The desvenlafaxine volume of distribution at steady - state following intravenous administration is 3 . 4 L / kg , indicating distribution into nonvascular compartments .
12 . 5 Metabolism and Elimination Desvenlafaxine is primarily metabolized by conjugation ( mediated by UGT isoforms ) and , to a minor extent , through oxidative metabolism .
CYP3A4 is the cytochrome P450 isozyme mediating the oxidative metabolism ( N - demethylation ) of desvenlafaxine .
The CYP2D6 metabolic pathway is not involved , and after administration of 100 mg , the pharmacokinetics of desvenlafaxine was similar in subjects with CYP2D6 poor and extensive metabolizer phenotype .
Approximately 45 % of desvenlafaxine is excreted unchanged in urine at 72 hours after oral administration .
Approximately 19 % of the administered dose is excreted as the glucuronide metabolite and < 5 % as the oxidative metabolite ( N , O - didesmethylvenlafaxine ) in urine .
12 . 6 Special Populations Age In a study of healthy subjects administered doses of up to 300 mg , there was an approximate 32 % increase in Cmax and a 55 % increase in AUC in subjects older than 75 years of age ( n = 17 ) , compared with subjects 18 to 45 years of age ( n = 16 ) .
Subjects 65 to 75 years of age ( n = 15 ) had no change in Cmax , but an approximately 32 % increase in AUC , compared to subjects 18 to 45 years of age [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Gender In a study of healthy subjects administered doses of up to 300 mg , women had an approximately 25 % higher Cmax and an approximately 10 % higher AUC than age - matched men .
No adjustment of dosage on the basis of gender is needed .
Race Pharmacokinetic analysis showed that race ( White , n = 466 ; Black , n = 97 ; Hispanic , n = 39 ; Other , n = 33 ) had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of PRISTIQ .
No adjustment of dosage on the basis of race is needed .
Hepatic insufficiency The disposition of desvenlafaxine succinate after administration of 100 mg was studied in subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh A , n = 8 ) , moderate ( Child - Pugh B , n = 8 ) , and severe ( Child - Pugh C , n = 8 ) hepatic impairment and to healthy subjects ( n = 12 ) .
Average AUC was increased by approximately 31 % and 35 % in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
Average AUC values were similar in subjects with mild hepatic impairment and healthy subjects ( < 5 % difference ) .
Systemic clearance ( CL / F ) was decreased by approximately 20 % and 36 % in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
CL / F values were comparable in mild hepatic impairment and healthy subjects ( < 5 % difference ) .
The mean t1 / 2 changed from approximately 10 hours in healthy subjects and subjects with mild hepatic impairment to 13 and 14 hours in moderate and severe hepatic impairment , respectively .
The recommended dose in patients with hepatic impairment is 50 mg / day .
Dose escalation above 100 mg / day is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Renal insufficiency The disposition of desvenlafaxine after administration of 100 mg was studied in subjects with mild ( n = 9 ) , moderate ( n = 8 ) , severe ( n = 7 ) and end - stage renal disease [ ESRD ] ( n = 9 ) requiring dialysis and in healthy , age - matched control subjects ( n = 8 ) .
Elimination was significantly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Increases in AUCs of about 42 % in mild renal impairment ( 24 ‑ hr CrCl = 50 ‑ 80 mL / min ) , about 56 % in moderate renal impairment ( 24 ‑ hr CrCl = 30 ‑ 50 mL / min ) , about 108 % in severe renal impairment ( 24 ‑ hr CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min ) , and about 116 % in ESRD subjects were observed , compared with healthy , age - matched control subjects .
The mean terminal half - life ( t1 / 2 ) was prolonged from 11 . 1 hours in the control subjects to approximately 13 . 5 , 15 . 5 , 17 . 6 , and 22 . 8 hours in mild , moderate , severe renal impairment and ESRD subjects , respectively .
Less than 5 % of the drug in the body was cleared during a standard 4 - hour hemodialysis procedure .
The recommended dose in patients with moderate renal impairment is 50 mg per day .
Dosage adjustment ( 50 mg every other day ) is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD .
Doses should not be escalated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment , or ESRD [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Desvenlafaxine succinate administered by oral gavage to mice and rats for 2 years did not increase the incidence of tumors in either study .
Mice received desvenlafaxine succinate at dosages up to 500 / 300 mg / kg / day ( dosage lowered after 45 weeks of dosing ) .
The 300 mg / kg / day dose is 15 times a human dose of 100 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
Rats received desvenlafaxine succinate at dosages up to 300 mg / kg / day ( males ) or 500 mg / kg / day ( females ) .
The highest dose is 29 ( males ) or 48 ( females ) times a human dose of 100 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Desvenlafaxine was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial mutation assay ( Ames test ) and was not clastogenic in an in vitro chromosome aberration assay in cultured CHO cells , an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , or an in vivo chromosome aberration assay in rats .
Additionally , desvenlafaxine was not genotoxic in the in vitro CHO mammalian cell forward mutation assay and was negative in the in vitro BALB / c - 3T3 mouse embryo cell transformation assay .
Impairment of fertility Reduced fertility was observed in a study in which both male and female rats received desvenlafaxine succinate .
This effect was noted at oral doses approximately 10 times a human dose of 100 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
There was no effect on fertility at oral doses approximately 3 times a human dose of 100 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of PRISTIQ as a treatment for depression was established in four 8 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , fixed - dose studies ( at doses of 50 mg / day to 400 mg / day ) in adult outpatients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM - IV ) criteria for major depressive disorder .
In the first study , patients received 100 mg ( n = 114 ) , 200 mg ( n = 116 ) , or 400 mg ( n = 113 ) of PRISTIQ once daily , or placebo ( n = 118 ) .
In a second study , patients received either 200 mg ( n = 121 ) or 400 mg ( n = 124 ) of PRISTIQ once daily , or placebo ( n = 124 ) .
In two additional studies , patients received 50 mg ( n = 150 and n = 164 ) or 100 mg ( n = 147 and n = 158 ) of PRISTIQ once daily , or placebo ( n = 150 and n = 161 ) .
PRISTIQ showed superiority over placebo as measured by improvement in the 17 - item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression ( HAM - D17 ) total score in four studies and overall improvement , as measured by the Clinical Global Impressions Scale - Improvement ( CGI - I ) , in three of the four studies .
In studies directly comparing 50 mg / day and 100 mg / day there was no suggestion of a greater effect with the higher dose and adverse events and discontinuations were more frequent at higher doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Analyses of the relationships between treatment outcome and age and treatment outcome and gender did not suggest any differential responsiveness on the basis of these patient characteristics .
There was insufficient information to determine the effect of race on outcome in these studies .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PRISTIQ ® ( desvenlafaxine ) Extended - Release Tablets are available as follows : 50 mg , light pink , square pyramid tablet debossed with “ W ” ( over ) “ 50 ” on the flat side NDC 54868 - 2932 - 0 , bottle of 30 tablets in unit - of - use package Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Each tablet contains 76 or 152 mg of desvenlafaxine succinate equivalent to 50 or 100 mg of desvenlafaxine , respectively .
The unit - of - use package is intended to be dispensed as a unit .
The appearance of these tablets is a trademark of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with PRISTIQ and counsel them in its appropriate use .
Advise patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and assist them in understanding its contents .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
17 . 1 Suicide Risk Advise patients , their families and caregivers to look for the emergence of suicidality , especially early during treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down [ see Box Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Concomitant Medication Advise patients taking PRISTIQ not to use concomitantly other products containing desvenlafaxine or venlafaxine .
Healthcare professionals should instruct patients not to take PRISTIQ with an MAOI or within 14 days of stopping an MAOI and to allow 7 days after stopping PRISTIQ before starting an MAOI [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like Reactions Caution patients about the risk of serotonin syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like reactions , particularly with the concomitant use of PRISTIQ and triptans , tramadol , tryptophan supplements , other serotonergic agents , or antipsychotic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 4 Elevated Blood Pressure Advise patients that they should have regular monitoring of blood pressure when taking PRISTIQ [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 5 Abnormal Bleeding Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of PRISTIQ and NSAIDs , aspirin , warfarin , or other drugs that affect coagulation since combined use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and these agents has been associated with an increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 6 Narrow - angle Glaucoma Advise patients with raised intraocular pressure or those at risk of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( angle - closure glaucoma ) that mydriasis has been reported and they should be monitored [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 7 Activation of Mania / Hypomania Advise patients , their families and caregivers to observe for signs of activation of mania / hypomania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
17 . 8 Cardiovascular / Cerebrovascular Disease Caution is advised in administering PRISTIQ to patients with cardiovascular , cerebrovascular , or lipid metabolism disorders [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 9 Serum Cholesterol and Triglyceride Elevation Advise patients that elevations in total cholesterol , LDL and triglycerides may occur and that measurement of serum lipids may be considered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
17 . 10 Discontinuation Advise patients not to stop taking PRISTIQ without talking first with their healthcare professional .
Patients should be aware that discontinuation effects may occur when stopping PRISTIQ [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 11 Switching Patients From Other Antidepressants to PRISTIQ Discontinuation symptoms have been reported when switching patients from other antidepressants , including venlafaxine , to PRISTIQ .
Tapering of the initial antidepressant may be necessary to minimize discontinuation symptoms .
17 . 12 Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance Caution patients about operating hazardous machinery , including automobiles , until they are reasonably certain that PRISTIQ therapy does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities .
17 . 13 Alcohol Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking PRISTIQ [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 14 Allergic Reactions Advise patients to notify their physician if they develop allergic phenomena such as rash , hives , swelling , or difficulty breathing .
17 . 15 Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 16 Nursing Advise patients to notify their physician if they are breastfeeding an infant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 17 Residual Inert Matrix Tablet Patients receiving PRISTIQ may notice an inert matrix tablet passing in the stool or via colostomy .
Patients should be informed that the active medication has already been absorbed by the time the patient sees the inert matrix tablet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0452 - 5 . 0 Revised October 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 MEDICATION GUIDE PRISTIQ ® ( pris - TEEK ) Extended - Release Tablets ( desvenlafaxine ) Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and Other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with your or your family member ' s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ' s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
• Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
• Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
• How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse irritability • new or worse depression • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • new or worse anxiety • acting on dangerous impulses • feeling very agitated or restless • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • panic attacks • other unusual changes in behavior or mood What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ' s healthcare provider for more information .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants .
Important Information about PRISTIQ ® Extended - Release Tablets Read the patient information that comes with PRISTIQ before you take PRISTIQ and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
If you have questions , ask your healthcare provider .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is PRISTIQ ?
• PRISTIQ is a prescription medicine used to treat depression .
PRISTIQ belongs to a class of medicines known as SNRIs ( or serotonin - norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ) .
• PRISTIQ has not been studied or approved for use in children and adolescents .
Who should not take PRISTIQ ?
Do not take PRISTIQ if you : • are allergic to desvenlafaxine , venlafaxine or any of the ingredients in PRISTIQ .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in PRISTIQ .
• currently take or have taken within the last 14 days , any medicine known as an MAOI .
Taking an MAOI with certain other medicines , including PRISTIQ , can cause serious or even life - threatening side effects .
Also , you must wait at least 7 days after you stop taking PRISTIQ before you take any MAOI .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking PRISTIQ ?
Tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have high blood pressure • have heart problems • have high cholesterol or high triglycerides • have a history of a stroke • have or had depression , suicidal thoughts or behavior • have glaucoma • have kidney problems • have liver problems • have or had bleeding problems • have or had seizures or convulsions • have mania or bipolar disorder • have low sodium levels in your blood • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PRISTIQ will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
PRISTIQ can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take PRISTIQ .
Serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) - like reactions Rare , but potentially life - threatening , conditions called serotonin syndrome or Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) - like reactions can happen when medicines such as PRISTIQ are taken with certain other medicines .
Serotonin syndrome or NMS - like reactions can cause serious changes in how your brain , muscles , heart and blood vessels , and digestive system work .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take the following : • medicines to treat migraine headaches known as triptans • medicines used to treat mood , anxiety , psychotic , or thought disorders , including tricyclics , lithium , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , antipsychotic drugs , or other dopamine antagonists , such as metoclopramide • silbutramine • tramadol • St . John ' s Wort • MAOIs ( including linezolid , an antibiotic ) • tryptophan supplements Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you are taking any of these medicines .
Before you take PRISTIQ with any of these medicines , talk to your healthcare provider about serotonin syndrome .
See “ What are the possible side effects of PRISTIQ ? ”
PRISTIQ contains the medicine desvenlafaxine .
Do not take PRISTIQ with other medicines containing venlafaxine or desvenlafaxine .
How should I take PRISTIQ ?
• Take PRISTIQ exactly as your healthcare provider has told you .
• Take PRISTIQ at about the same time each day .
• PRISTIQ may be taken either with or without food .
• Swallow PRISTIQ tablets whole , with fluid .
Do not crush , cut , chew , or dissolve PRISTIQ tablets because the tablets are time - released .
• When you take PRISTIQ , you may see something in your stool that looks like a tablet .
This is the empty shell from the tablet after the medicine has been absorbed by your body .
• It is common for antidepressant medicines such as PRISTIQ to take several weeks before you start to feel better .
Do not stop taking PRISTIQ if you do not feel results right away .
• Do not stop taking or change the dose of PRISTIQ without talking with your healthcare provider , even if you feel better .
• Talk with your healthcare provider about how long you should use PRISTIQ .
Take PRISTIQ for as long as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• If you miss a dose of PRISTIQ , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose .
Do not try to “ make up ” for the missed dose by taking two doses at the same time .
• Do not take more PRISTIQ than prescribed by your healthcare provider .
If you take more PRISTIQ than the amount prescribed , contact your healthcare provider right away .
• In case of an overdose of PRISTIQ , call your healthcare provider or poison control center , or go to the emergency room right away .
Switching from other antidepressants Side effects from discontinuing antidepressant medication have occurred when patients switched from other antidepressants , including venlafaxine , to PRISTIQ .
Your doctor may gradually reduce the dose of your initial antidepressant medication to help to reduce these side effects .
What should I avoid while taking PRISTIQ ?
• Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how PRISTIQ affects you .
• Avoid drinking alcohol while taking PRISTIQ .
What are the possible side effects of PRISTIQ ?
PRISTIQ can cause serious side effects , including : • See the beginning of this Medication Guide - Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions .
• Serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) - like reactions .
See “ What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking PRISTIQ ? ”
Get medical help right away if you think that you have these syndromes .
Signs and symptoms of these syndromes may include one or more of the following : • restlessness • increase in blood pressure • hallucinations ( seeing and hearing things that are not real ) • diarrhea • loss of coordination • coma • fast heart beat • nausea • increased body temperature • vomiting • muscle stiffness • confusion PRISTIQ may also cause other serious side effects , including : • New or worsened high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Your healthcare provider should monitor your blood pressure before and while you are taking PRISTIQ .
If you have high blood pressure , it should be controlled before you start taking PRISTIQ .
• Abnormal bleeding or bruising .
PRISTIQ and other SNRIs / SSRIs may cause you to have an increased chance of bleeding .
Taking aspirin , NSAIDs ( non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) , or blood thinners may add to this risk .
Tell your healthcare provider right away about any unusual bleeding or bruising .
• Glaucoma ( increased eye pressure ) • Increased cholesterol and triglyceride levels in your blood • Symptoms when stopping PRISTIQ ( discontinuation symptoms ) .
Side effects may occur when stopping PRISTIQ ( discontinuation symptoms ) , especially when therapy is stopped suddenly .
Your healthcare provider may want to decrease your dose slowly to help avoid side effects .
Some of these side effects may include : • dizziness • anxiety • nausea • abnormal dreams • headache • tiredness • irritability • sweating • sleeping problems ( insomnia ) • diarrhea • Seizures ( convulsions ) • Low sodium levels in your blood .
Symptoms of this may include : headache , difficulty concentrating , memory changes , confusion , weakness and unsteadiness on your feet .
In severe or more sudden cases , symptoms can include : hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not real ) , fainting , seizures and coma .
If not treated , severe low sodium levels could be fatal .
• Allergic reactions .
Some reactions can be severe such as swelling beneath the skin ( e . g . , throat , face , hands ) .
Contact your healthcare provider if you think you have any of these side effects .
Common side effects with PRISTIQ include : • nausea • tiredness • headache • diarrhea • dry mouth • vomiting • sweating • anxiety • dizziness • tremor • insomnia • dilated pupils • constipation • decreased sex drive • loss of appetite • delayed orgasm and ejaculation • sleepiness • feeling that your surroundings are spinning or moving These are not all the possible side effects of PRISTIQ .
Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
For more information on these and other side effects associated with PRISTIQ , talk to your healthcare provider , visit our web site at www . pristiq . com or call our toll - free number at 1 ‑ 888 ‑ PRISTIQ ( 774 ‑ 7847 ) .
How should I store PRISTIQ ?
• Store PRISTIQ at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not use PRISTIQ after the expiration date ( EXP ) , which is on the container .
The expiration date refers to the last day of that month .
• Keep PRISTIQ and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of PRISTIQ Medicines are sometimes used for conditions that are not mentioned in Medication Guides .
Do not use PRISTIQ for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PRISTIQ to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about PRISTIQ .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about PRISTIQ that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , go to www . pristiq . com or call 1 ‑ 888 ‑ PRISTIQ ( 774 ‑ 7847 ) .
What are the ingredients in PRISTIQ ?
Active ingredient : desvenlafaxine Inactive ingredients : For the 50 mg tablet , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , magnesium stearate and film coating , which consists of polyvinyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol , talc , titanium dioxide , and iron oxides .
For the 100 mg tablet , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , magnesium stearate , a film coating which consists of polyvinyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide and FD & C yellow # 6 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued April 2011 .
Contact Information Please visit our web site at www . pristiq . com , or call our toll - free number 1 - 888 - PRISTIQ ( 774 - 7847 ) to receive more information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current package insert and further product information , please visit www . wyeth . com or call our medical communications department toll - free at 1 ‑ 800 ‑ 934 ‑ 5556 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0539 - 2 . 0 Revised July 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 50 MG LABEL NDC 54868 - 2932 - 0 Pristiq ™ desvenlafaxine Extended - Release Tablets 50 mg Note : Give attached Medication Guide when dispensing Pristiq ™ .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
