For intravenous infusion after dilution only .
Description INFUVITE ADULT is a sterile product consisting of two 5 mL single - dose vials labeled Vial 1 and Vial 2 .
Each 5 mL of Vial 1 contains : Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) ....................................... 200 mg Vitamin A * ( as palmitate ) .....................................
3 , 300 IU Vitamin D3 * ( cholecalciferol ) .................................. 200 IU Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as the hydrochloride ) ..............................................
6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) ( as riboflavin 5 - phosphate sodium ) ........................ 3 . 6 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( Vitamin B6 ) ....................................... 6 mg Niacinamide ..............................................................
40 mg Dexpanthenol ( as d - pantothenyl alcohol ) ...................................... 15 mg Vitamin E * ( dl - α - tocopheryl acetate ) .......................... 10 IU Vitamin K1 * .......................................................... 150 mcg Inactive ingredients : 1 . 4 % polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment , and water for injection .
* Polysorbate 80 is used to water solubilize the oil - soluble vitamins A , D , E , and K . Each 5 mL of Vial 2 contains : Folic acid ............................................................... 600 mcg Biotin .......................................................................
60 mcg Vitamin B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) .................................. 5 mcg Inactive ingredients : 30 % propylene glycol , citric acid and / or sodium citrate for pH adjustment , and water for injection .
“ Aqueous ” multiple vitamin preparation for intravenous infusion : INFUVITE ADULT ( Multiple Vitamins for Infusion ) makes available a combination of important oil - soluble and water - soluble vitamins in an aqueous solution , formulated for incorporation into intravenous solutions .
The liposoluble vitamins A , D , E , and K have been solubilized in an aqueous medium with polysorbate 80 , permitting intravenous administration of these vitamins .
Contains no more than 70 mcg / L of aluminum ( combined Vials 1 and 2 ) .
Indications and Usage INFUVITE ADULT is indicated as a daily multivitamin maintenance supplement for adults and children aged 11 and older receiving parenteral nutrition .
INFUVITE ADULT is also indicated in other situations where administration by the intravenous route is required .
Such situations include surgery , extensive burns , fractures and other trauma , severe infectious diseases , and comatose states , which may provoke a “ stress ” situation with profound alterations in the body ’ s metabolic demands and consequent tissue depletion of nutrients .
The physician should not await the development of clinical signs of vitamin deficiency before initiating vitamin therapy .
INFUVITE ADULT ( administered in intravenous fluids under proper dilution ) contributes intake of necessary vitamins toward maintaining the body ’ s normal resistance and repair processes .
Patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or with markedly increased requirements may be given multiples of the daily dosage for two or more days , as indicated by the clinical status .
Some patients do not maintain adequate levels of certain vitamins when a multiple vitamin preparation , such as INFUVITE ADULT , in recommended amounts , is the sole source of vitamins .
Blood levels of vitamins A , C , D , and folic acid may decline in patients receiving parenteral multivitamins as their sole source of vitamins for 4 to 6 months .
Therefore , in patients for whom total parenteral nutrition will be continued for long periods of time blood vitamin concentrations should be monitored to ensure maintenance of adequate levels .
If deficiencies appear to be developing , multiples of the formulation ( 1 . 5 to 3 times ) may be needed for a period of time .
When multiples of the formulation are used for more than a few weeks , vitamins A and D should be monitored occasionally to be certain that an excess accumulation of these vitamins is not occurring .
Contraindications INFUVITE ADULT is contraindicated where there is a preexisting hypervitaminosis , or a known hypersensitivity to any of the vitamins or excipients in the product .
Allergic reactions have been known to occur following intravenous administration of thiamine and vitamin K .
The formulation is contraindicated prior to blood sampling for detection of megaloblastic anemia , as the folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the vitamin solution can mask serum deficits .
Warnings This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Precautions If this formulation is the only source of vitamins for long periods of time , blood concentration of each of the vitamins should be monitored , particularly vitamins A , C , D , and folic acid , to determine if deficiencies are occurring .
If deficiencies are developing or when long - standing vitamin deficiencies are present , it may be necessary to add therapeutic amounts of certain vitamins to supplement the maintenance vitamins provided in INFUVITE ADULT .
Drug – Drug / Solution Interactions : Caution should be exercised when administering INFUVITE ADULT to patients on warfarin sodium - type anticoagulant therapy .
In such patients , vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic response to anticoagulant drugs , such as warfarin and its congeners .
Therefore , periodic monitoring of prothrombin / INR response is essential in determining the appropriate dosage of anticoagulant therapy .
INFUVITE ADULT ( Multiple Vitamins for Infusion ) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide , chlorothiazide sodium , aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate .
Tetracycline HCl and ampicillin may not be physically compatible with INFUVITE ADULT .
Also , it has been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate .
Direct addition to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended .
Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion .
In such circumstances , admixture or Y - site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided .
A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported which may affect the metabolism of either agent .
The following are examples of these types of interactions .
Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity .
Conversely , phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations and , therefore , should be avoided in pregnancy .
Folic acid may decrease the patient ’ s response to methotrexate therapy .
Pyridoxine may decrease the efficacy of levodopa by increasing its metabolism .
Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements .
In patients with pernicious anemia , the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol .
Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics .
Thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin , kanamycin , streptomycin , doxycycline , and lincomycin .
Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin .
Vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic effect of oral anticoagulants ( see bolded statement above ) .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Some of the vitamins in INFUVITE ADULT may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite ; if bisulfite solutions are necessary , patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies .
Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions : Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies have not been performed with INFUVITE ADULT .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with INFUVITE ADULT ( Multiple Vitamins for Infusion ) .
INFUVITE ADULT should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pregnant women should follow the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowances for their condition , because their vitamin requirements may exceed those of nonpregnant women .
The use of INFUVITE ADULT has not been studied in human pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers : Lactating women should follow the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowances for their condition , because their vitamin requirement may exceed those of nonlactating women .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when INFUVITE ADULT is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 11 years have not been established .
Adverse Reactions There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration .
Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported following large intravenous doses of thiamine .
However , the risk is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins of the B group .
There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions : Dermatologic – rash , erythema , pruritis CNS – headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety Ophthalmic – diplopia Allergic – urticaria , shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema .
Overdosage The fat - soluble vitamins A , D , and E can accumulate to harmful levels .
The possibility of hypervitaminosis A or D should be borne in mind .
Clinical manifestations of hypervitaminosis A have been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1 . 5 mg / day retinol .
Therefore , vitamin A supplementation of renal failure patients should be undertaken with caution .
Water - soluble vitamins are readily excreted in the urine .
Treatment of vitamin overdosage usually consists of withdrawal of the vitamin .
Dosage and Administration INFUVITE ADULT is ready for immediate use in adults and children aged 11 years and older when added to intravenous infusion fluids .
INFUVITE ADULT should not be given as a direct , undiluted intravenous injection as it may give rise to dizziness , faintness , and possible tissue irritation .
For intravenous feeding , one daily dose of INFUVITE ADULT ( 5 mL of Vial 1 plus 5 mL of Vial 2 ) added directly to not less than 500 mL , and preferably 1 , 000 mL , of intravenous dextrose , saline or similar infusion solutions .
Discard any unused portion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
After INFUVITE ADULT is diluted in an intravenous infusion , the resulting solution should be refrigerated unless it is to be used immediately .
The solution should be used within 24 hours after dilution .
Some of the vitamins in this product , particularly A , D , and riboflavin , are light sensitive , therefore , exposure to light should be minimized .
How Supplied INFUVITE ADULT – NDC 54643 - 5649 - 1 , is available in boxes containing 10 vials - 5 each of Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) , one Vial 1 plus one Vial 2 to be used for a single dose .
Store under refrigeration , 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Rx only Manufactured by Sandoz Canada Inc . 145 Jules - Leger Street Boucherville , QC , Canada J4B 7K8 Distributed by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Clintec Nutrition Division Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in Canada D1006230 Rev . September 2007 ® INFUVITE is a registered trademark of Sandoz Canada Inc .
Infuvite Adult Carton 2A9018 NDC 54643 - 5649 - 1 Baxter INFUVITE ADULT Multiple Vitamins for Infusion For intravenous infusion after dilution only .
Rx only Sterile Contains 5 each of Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) .
One vial of each to be used for a single dose .
Store under refrigeration , 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
