1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Qbrexza is indicated for topical treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis in adult and pediatric patients 9 years of age and older .
Qbrexza is an anticholinergic indicated for topical treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis in adults and pediatric patients 9 years of age and older ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Qbrexza is for topical use in the underarm area only and not for use in other body areas .
Qbrexza is administered by a single - use pre - moistened cloth packaged in individual pouches .
Qbrexza should be applied to clean dry skin on the underarm areas only .
Qbrexza should not be used more frequently than once every 24 hours .
Tear open the pouch and pull out the cloth , unfold the cloth , and wipe it across one entire underarm once .
Using the same cloth , wipe the other underarm once .
A single cloth should be used to apply Qbrexza to both underarms .
After applying Qbrexza , discard the cloth in the household trash out of reach of children and others .
Wash hands immediately with soap and water after applying and discarding the Qbrexza cloth .
Qbrexza may cause temporary dilation of the pupils and blurred vision if it comes in contact with the eyes .
Avoid transfer of Qbrexza to the periocular area [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Do not apply Qbrexza to broken skin .
Avoid using Qbrexza with occlusive dressings .
For topical use only .
Apply Qbrexza once daily to both axillae using a single cloth ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cloth : A single - use cloth pre - moistened with 2 . 4 % glycopyrronium solution Cloth : A single - use cloth pre - moistened with 2 . 4 % glycopyrronium solution ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Qbrexza is contraindicated in patients with medical conditions that can be exacerbated by the anticholinergic effect of Qbrexza ( e . g . , glaucoma , paralytic ileus , unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage , severe ulcerative colitis , toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis , myasthenia gravis , Sjogren ’ s syndrome ) .
Qbrexza is contraindicated in patients with medical conditions that can be exacerbated by the anticholinergic effect of Qbrexza ( e . g . , glaucoma , paralytic ileus , unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage , severe ulcerative colitis , toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis , myasthenia gravis , Sjogren ’ s syndrome ) ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • New or worsening urinary retention : Use with caution in patients with a history of documented urinary retention ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Control of body temperature : In the presence of high ambient temperature , heat illness may occur ; avoid use if patients develop generalized lack of sweating when exposed to hot or very warm environmental temperatures ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Operating machinery or an automobile : Transient blurred vision may occur with use of Qbrexza .
If blurred vision occurs , discontinue use of Qbrexza until symptoms resolve ; avoid operating a motor vehicle or other machinery until symptoms resolve ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 New or Worsening Urinary Retention New or worsening signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , distended bladder ) have occurred in patients taking Qbrexza with or without a history of documented urinary retention .
Instruct patients to discontinue use immediately and consult a physician should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
Qbrexza should be used with caution in patients with prostatic hypertrophy or bladder - neck obstruction .
5 . 2 Control of Body Temperature In the presence of high ambient temperature , heat illness ( hyperpyrexia and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with the use of anticholinergic drugs such as Qbrexza .
Advise patients using Qbrexza to watch for generalized lack of sweating when in hot or very warm environmental temperatures and to avoid use if not sweating under these conditions .
5 . 3 Operating Machinery or an Automobile Transient blurred vision may occur with use of Qbrexza .
If blurred vision occurs , the patient should discontinue use until symptoms resolve .
Patients should be warned not to engage in activities that require clear vision such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work until the symptoms have resolved .
5 . 4 Risk of Accidental Exposure Cases of accidental exposure resulting in mydriasis , anisocoria , and blurred vision have been reported in postmarketing surveillance of Qbrexza .
The exposures occurred when children accessed Qbrexza wipes discarded in trash or when patients touched the periocular area after using Qbrexza .
In most cases , the mydriasis , anisocoria , and blurred vision were temporary and resolved within one week following exposure .
The risk of accidental exposure was increased in these cases by not adhering to recommendations for the appropriate use of Qbrexza .
Strict adherence to the recommended hand washing after use and disposal instructions is of the utmost importance to prevent accidental exposure .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections • New or Worsening Urinary Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) are dry mouth , mydriasis , oropharyngeal pain , headache , urinary hesitation , vision blurred , nasal dryness , dry throat , dry eye , dry skin , constipation .
Local skin reactions , including erythema , burning / stinging and pruritus were also common ( > 5 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Journey Medical Corp . at 1 - 855 - 531 - 1859 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials ( Trial 1 [ NCT02530281 ] and Trial 2 [ NCT02530294 ] ) of 459 subjects treated with Qbrexza once daily and 232 treated with vehicle , subjects were 9 to 76 years of age , 47 % male , and the percentages of White , Black ( including African Americans ) , and Asian subjects were 82 % , 12 % , and 1 % , respectively .
Table 1 summarizes the most frequent adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in subjects with primary axillary hyperhidrosis treated with Qbrexza .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of SubjectsAdverse Reactions Qbrexza ( N = 459 ) n ( % ) Vehicle ( N = 232 ) n ( % ) Dry mouth 111 ( 24 . 2 % ) 13 ( 5 . 6 % ) Mydriasis 31 ( 6 . 8 % ) 0 Oropharyngeal pain 26 ( 5 . 7 % ) 3 ( 1 . 3 % ) Headache 23 ( 5 . 0 % ) 5 ( 2 . 2 % ) Urinary hesitation 16 ( 3 . 5 % ) 0 Vision blurred 16 ( 3 . 5 % ) 0 Nasal dryness 12 ( 2 . 6 % ) 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) Dry throat 12 ( 2 . 6 % ) 0 Dry eye 11 ( 2 . 4 % ) 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) Dry skin 10 ( 2 . 2 % ) 0 Constipation 9 ( 2 . 0 % ) 0 Table 2 shows the most frequently reported local skin reactions , which were relatively common in both the Qbrexza and vehicle groups .
Table 2 : Local Skin Reactionsa Patients with a post - baseline local skin reaction assessment Local Skin Reactions Qbrexza ( N = 454 ) a n ( % ) Vehicle ( N = 231 ) a n ( % ) Erythema 77 ( 17 . 0 % ) 39 ( 16 . 9 % ) Burning / stinging 64 ( 14 . 1 % ) 39 ( 16 . 9 % ) Pruritus 37 ( 8 . 1 % ) 14 ( 6 . 1 % ) In an open - label safety trial ( NCT02553798 ) , 564 subjects were treated for up to an additional 44 weeks after completing Trial 1 or Trial 2 .
Adverse reactions occurring at a frequency ≥ 2 . 0 % were : dry mouth ( 16 . 9 % ) , vision blurred ( 6 . 7 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 5 . 8 % ) , mydriasis ( 5 . 3 % ) , urinary hesitation ( 4 . 2 % ) , nasal dryness ( 3 . 6 % ) , dry eye ( 2 . 9 % ) , pharyngitis ( 2 . 2 % ) , and application site reactions ( pain [ 6 . 4 % ] , dermatitis [ 3 . 8 % ] , pruritus [ 3 . 8 % ] , rash [ 3 . 8 % ] , erythema [ 2 . 4 % ] ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Qbrexza .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to Qbrexza exposure .
• Genitourinary system disorders : new onset urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of Qbrexza with anticholinergic medications may result in additive interaction leading to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects .
Avoid coadministration of Qbrexza with other anticholinergic - containing drugs ( 7 ) 7 . 1 Anticholinergics Coadministration of Qbrexza with anticholinergic medications may result in additive interaction leading to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Avoid coadministration of Qbrexza with other anticholinergic - containing drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric use : Safety and efficacy are not established in patients under 9 years of age ( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Qbrexza use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
In pregnant rats , daily oral administration of glycopyrrolate ( glycopyrronium bromide ) during organogenesis did not result in an increased incidence of gross external or visceral defects [ see Data ] .
When glycopyrrolate was administered intravenously to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis , no adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were seen .
The available data do not support relevant comparisons of systemic glycopyrronium exposures achieved in the animal studies to exposures observed in humans after topical use of Qbrexza .
The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Glycopyrrolate was orally administered to pregnant rats at dosages of 50 , 200 , and 400 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Glycopyrrolate had no effect on maternal survival , but significantly reduced mean maternal body weight gain over the period of dosing at all dosages evaluated .
Mean fetal weight was significantly reduced in the 200 and 400 mg / kg / day dose groups .
There were two litters with all resorbed fetuses in the 400 mg / kg / day dose group .
There were no effects of treatment on the incidence of gross external or visceral defects .
Minor treatment - related skeletal effects included reduced ossification of various bones in the 200 and 400 mg / kg / day dose groups ; these skeletal effects were likely secondary to maternal toxicity .
Glycopyrrolate was intravenously administered to pregnant rabbits at dosages of 0 . 1 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Glycopyrrolate did not affect maternal survival under the conditions of this study .
Mean maternal body weight gain and mean food consumption over the period of dosing were lower than the corresponding control value in the 0 . 5 and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day treatment groups .
There were no effects of treatment on fetal parameters , including fetal survival , mean fetal weight , and the incidence of external , visceral , or skeletal defects .
Female rats that were pregnant or nursing were orally dosed with glycopyrrolate daily at dosages of 0 , 50 , 200 , or 400 mg / kg / day , beginning on day 7 of gestation , and continuing until day 20 of lactation .
Mean body weight of pups in all treatment groups was reduced compared to the control group during the period of nursing , but eventually recovered to be comparable to the control group , post - weaning .
No other notable delivery or litter parameters were affected by treatment in any group , including no effects on mean duration of gestation or mean numbers of live pups per litter .
No treatment - related effects on survival or adverse clinical signs were observed in pups .
There were no effects of maternal treatment on behavior , learning , memory , or reproductive function of pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of glycopyrrolate or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Qbrexza and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Qbrexza or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety , effectiveness and pharmacokinetics of Qbrexza have been established in pediatric patients age 9 years and older for topical treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use of Qbrexza in this age group is supported by evidence from two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , vehicle - controlled 4 - week trials which included 34 pediatric subjects 9 years and older [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of Qbrexza have not been established in pediatric patients under 9 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Qbrexza did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The elimination of glycopyrronium is severely impaired in patients with renal failure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Because glycopyrronium is a quaternary amine which does not easily cross the blood - brain barrier , symptoms of glycopyrronium overdosage are generally more peripheral in nature rather than central compared to other anticholinergic agents .
Associated signs and symptoms related to excessive anticholinergic activity may include flushing , hyperthermia , tachycardia , ileus , urinary retention , loss of ocular accommodation and light sensitivity due to mydriasis .
In the case of overdose when symptoms are severe or life threatening , therapy may include : • Managing per standard of care any acute conditions such as hyperthermia , coma , and / or seizures , as applicable , and managing any myoclonic or choreoathetoid movements which may lead to rhabdomyolysis in some cases of anticholinergic overdosage • Managing severe urinary retention with catheterization if not spontaneously reversed within several hours • Providing cardiovascular support and / or controlling arrhythmias • Maintaining an open airway , providing ventilation as necessary • Administering a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase such as neostigmine to help alleviate severe and / or life threatening peripheral anticholinergic effects .
Topical overdosing of Qbrexza could result in an increased incidence or severity of local skin reactions .
Administration of Qbrexza under occlusive conditions may result in an increase in anticholinergic effects , including dry mouth and urinary hesitation .
11 DESCRIPTION Qbrexza ( glycopyrronium ) cloth , 2 . 4 % is an anticholinergic drug available as a clear , colorless to pale yellow solution on a single - use pre - moistened cloth ( an absorbent polypropylene pad ) packaged in a pouch for topical administration .
Each pouch contains 105 mg glycopyrronium tosylate , equivalent to 66 mg of glycopyrronium .
The inactive ingredients are citric acid , dehydrated alcohol , purified water , and sodium citrate .
Glycopyrronium tosylate is chemically described as pyrrolidinium , 3 - [ ( 2 - cyclopentyl - 2 - hydroxy - 2 - phenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - , 4 - methylbenzensulfonate , hydrate ( 1 : 1 : 1 ) with an empirical formula of C26H37NO7S and a molecular weight of 507 . 6 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Glycopyrronium is a competitive inhibitor of acetylcholine receptors that are located on certain peripheral tissues , including sweat glands .
In hyperhidrosis , glycopyrronium inhibits the action of acetylcholine on sweat glands , reducing sweating .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of Qbrexza are not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of glycopyrronium were evaluated in adult and pediatric patients with primary axillary hyperhidrosis following Qbrexza once daily applied to the axillae for 5 days .
The mean ± SD exposures of glycopyrronium are presented in Tables 3 and 4 .
There was no evidence of accumulation .
Table 3 : Mean ± SD Plasma Exposures of Glycopyrronium in Adults Following Qbrexza Once Daily for 5 daysAbbreviations : Maximum concentration ( Cmax ) , Area under the time concentration curve ( AUC ) between 0 and 6 hours following administration of Qbrexza ( AU0 - 6 h ) , AUC between 0 and 24 hours following administration of Qbrexza ( AUC0 - 24 h ) Parameter Adult Patients Cmax ( ng / mL ) 0 . 08 ± 0 . 04 AUC0 - 6 h ( h ∗ ng / mL ) 0 . 2 ± 0 . 14 AUC0 - 24 h ( h ∗ ng / mL ) 0 . 88 ± 0 . 57 Median Tmax ( Range ) ( h ) 1 ( 0 , 10 ) Distribution After IV administration , glycopyrronium has a mean volume of distribution in children aged 1 to 14 years of approximately 1 . 3 to 1 . 8 L / kg , with a range from 0 . 7 to 3 . 9 L / kg .
In adults aged 60 - 75 years , the volume of distribution was lower ( 0 . 42 L / kg ± 0 . 22 ) .
Elimination Metabolism A small proportion of glycopyrronium is metabolized following IV administration .
The metabolic pathway for glycopyrronium is not characterized .
Excretion Following administration of a single radiolabeled IV glycopyrronium dose to adult subjects who underwent surgery for cholelithiasis , approximately 85 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and < 5 % was present in bile drainage .
Greater than 80 % of the radioactivity in both urine and bile was unchanged drug .
Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of glycopyrronium were not evaluated in pregnant women or patients with hepatic impairment .
Pediatric Subjects The mean ± SD exposures of glycopyrronium in pediatric subjects following Qbrexza once daily for 5 days are presented in Table 4 .
There was no evidence of accumulation .
Table 4 : Mean ± SD Plasma Exposures of Glycopyrronium in Pediatric Subjects Aged 10 to 17 years Following Qbrexza Once Daily for 5 daysParameter Pediatric Patients Cmax ( ng / mL ) 0 . 07 ± 0 . 06 AUC0 - 6 h ( h ∗ ng / mL ) 0 . 18 ± 0 . 13 AUC0 - 24 h ( h ∗ ng / mL ) Not calculated Median Tmax ( Range ) ( h ) 1 . 5 ( 0 , 6 ) Patients with Renal Impairment Following a 4 mcg / kg IV dose of a glycopyrronium formulation for IV use , mean glycopyrronium AUC ( 10 . 6 mcg · h / L ) , CL ( 0 . 43 L / h / kg ) and 3 - hour urinary excretion ( 0 . 7 % ) were significantly different in uremic subjects undergoing renal transplantation surgery than those of healthy subjects ( 3 . 73 mcg · h / L , 1 . 14 L / h / kg , and 50 % , respectively ) .
Pharmacokinetics of Qbrexza in subjects with renal impairment has not been studied .
In Vitro Studies In vitro studies indicated that under the conditions of clinical use , Qbrexza is not expected to induce cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes 1A2 , 2B6 and 3A4 ; or inhibit 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 and 3A4 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Glycopyrronium tosylate was not carcinogenic when topically applied to rats daily for up to 24 months in solution at concentrations of 1 % , 2 % , and 4 % w / w .
When glycopyrrolate was administered via oral gavage to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 2 . 5 , 7 , and 20 mg / kg / day in both genders , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
When glycopyrrolate was administered via oral gavage to rats for up to 24 months at dosages of 5 , 15 , and 40 mg / kg / day in both genders , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
Glycopyrrolate was negative in a battery of genetic toxicology studies that included a bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , a mouse lymphoma assay conducted with L5178Y / TK + / - cells , and an in vivo micronucleus assay with mice .
Glycopyrronium tosylate was negative in an Ames assay .
Glycopyrrolate was assessed for effects on fertility or general reproductive function in rats .
Rats of both genders received glycopyrrolate at dosages up to 100 mg / kg / day via oral gavage .
No treatment - related effects on fertility or reproductive parameters were observed in either gender .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Efficacy and Safety Trials Two randomized , vehicle - controlled multicenter trials , Trial 1 ( NCT02530281 ) and Trial 2 ( NCT02530294 ) , were conducted in subjects with primary axillary hyperhidrosis and enrolled a total of 697 subjects 9 years of age or older .
Inclusion criteria required that prior to the start of treatment , all subjects produce at least 50 mg of sweat in each axilla over a 5 - minute period and rate the severity of their sweating daily over a week with a mean score of 4 or higher on the ASDD item # 2 , a patient reported outcome instrument scored from 0 ( no sweating ) to 10 ( worst possible sweating ) .
The median sweat production over 5 minutes at baseline was 122 mg in the Qbrexza arm and 113 mg in the vehicle arm in Trial 1 , and 127 mg in the Qbrexza arm and 117 mg in the vehicle arm in Trial 2 .
The average weekly mean score on the ASDD item # 2 at baseline was approximately 7 . 2 across both trials .
Subjects were randomized to receive either Qbrexza or vehicle applied once daily to each axilla .
The co - primary endpoints were the proportion of subjects having at least a 4 - point improvement from baseline in the weekly mean ASDD item # 2 score at Week 4 and the mean absolute change from baseline in gravimetrically measured sweat production at Week 4 .
Clinical Response The results of Trial 1 and Trial 2 are presented in Table 5 below .
Table 5 : Primary Efficacy Outcomes in Subjects with Primary Axillary Hyperhidrosis Trial 1 Trial 2 Qbrexza , 2 . 4 % N = 229 Vehicle N = 115 Qbrexza 2 . 4 % N = 234 Vehicle N = 119 ASDD Item # 2 Response at Week 4 : Proportion of subjects with at least a 4 - point improvement from baseline in the weekly mean ASDD item # 2 at Week 4 53 % 28 % 66 % 27 % Change from Baseline in Sweat Production at Week 4 ( mg / 5 minutes ) : Median - 81 - 66 - 79 - 58 25 th percentile , 75 th percentile - 149 , - 40 - 106 , - 28 - 144 , - 45 - 122 , - 21 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Qbrexza is supplied as : A single - use cloth pre - moistened with a 2 . 4 % glycopyrronium solution in a pouch Carton of 30 pouches NDC 69489 - 411 - 30 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Qbrexza is flammable ; keep away from heat or flame .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
New or Worsening Urinary Retention Instruct patients to be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , distended bladder ) .
Instruct patients to discontinue use and consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
Control of Body Temperature ( Risk of Overheating or Heat Illness ) In the presence of high ambient temperature , heat illness due to decreased sweating can occur with the use of anticholinergic drugs such as Qbrexza .
Advise patients using Qbrexza to watch for generalized lack of sweating when in hot or very warm environmental temperatures and to avoid use if not sweating under these conditions .
Operating Machinery or an Automobile Transient blurred vision may occur with Qbrexza .
If this occurs , instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider , discontinue use of Qbrexza and avoid operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work until symptoms resolve .
Instructions for Administering Qbrexza It is important for patients to understand how to correctly apply Qbrexza ( see Patient Information ) .
• Instruct patients to use one cloth to apply Qbrexza to both axillae by wiping the cloth across one underarm , ONE TIME .
• Using the same cloth , apply the medication to the other underarm , ONE TIME .
• After applying Qbrexza , discard the cloth in the household trash out of reach of children and others .
• Wash your hands with soap and water right away after you apply Qbrexza and have thrown away the cloth .
• Inform patients to avoid touching the periocular area .
The Qbrexza that is still on your hands can cause you to have temporary pupil dilation and blurred vision if you touch your eyes .
• Remind patients not to apply Qbrexza to other body areas or to broken skin .
Instruct patients to avoid using Qbrexza with occlusive dressings .
• Qbrexza is flammable ; avoid use near heat or flame .
Manufactured for : Journey Medical Corporation Scottsdale , AZ 85258 Version 2 , October 2022 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 10 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION Qbrexza ™ ( kew brex ’ zah ) ( glycopyrronium ) cloth , 2 . 4 % Important Information : Qbrexza is for use on the skin in the underarm area only .
What is Qbrexza ?
Qbrexza is a prescription anticholinergic medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat excessive underarm sweating ( primary axillary hyperhidrosis ) in adults and children 9 years of age and older .
It is not known if Qbrexza is safe and effective in children under 9 years of age .
Who should not use Qbrexza ?
Do not use Qbrexza if you have certain medical conditions that can be made worse by taking an anticholinergic medicine such as glaucoma , severe ulcerative colitis or certain other serious bowel problems associated with severe ulcerative colitis , myasthenia gravis , and Sjogren ’ s syndrome .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you have a medical condition that can be made worse by taking an anticholinergic medicine .
Before using Qbrexza , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have prostate or bladder problems , or problems passing urine • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Qbrexza will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Qbrexza passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with Qbrexza .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription medicines , over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Qbrexza may affect the way other medicines work causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take anticholinergic medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Qbrexza ?
• Use Qbrexza exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Qbrexza comes as a single - use pre - moistened cloth in individual pouches .
• Qbrexza should be applied to the clean , dry , intact skin , of your underarm areas only .
Do not apply Qbrexza to broken skin .
Do not cover the treated area with a plastic ( occlusive ) dressing .
• Apply Qbrexza to both underarm areas using 1 cloth 1 time every 24 hours .
Applying Qbrexza : • Carefully tear open the pouch to avoid tearing the Qbrexza cloth .
• Unfold the Qbrexza cloth and apply Qbrexza by wiping across 1 entire underarm 1 time .
Using the same Qbrexza cloth , wipe across the other underarm 1 time .
• Throw away ( discard ) the used Qbrexza cloth in the trash out of the reach of children and others .
• Wash your hands right away after you apply Qbrexza and have thrown away the cloth .
It is important that you wash your hands because the Qbrexza that is still on your hands can cause you to have blurred vision if you touch your eyes .
• Do not reuse the Qbrexza cloth .
What should I avoid while using Qbrexza ?
• • Avoid touching eyes .
Qbrexza may cause you to have blurred vision that is temporary .
If you develop blurred vision , call your healthcare provider , stop using Qbrexza and do not drive , operate machinery , or do hazardous work until your vision is clear .
• Qbrexza is flammable .
Avoid heat and flame while applying Qbrexza to your skin What are the possible side effects of Qbrexza ?
Qbrexza can cause serious side effects , including : • New or worsened urinary retention . People who use Qbrexza may develop new or worse urinary retention .
Urinary retention can be caused by a blockage in your bladder .
Urinary retention can also happen in men who have a larger than normal prostate .
Symptoms of urinary retention may include : • difficulty urinating • urinating frequently • urination in a weak stream or drips • full bladder or difficulty emptying your bladder ( distended bladder ) If you have these symptoms , stop using Qbrexza and call your healthcare provider right away .
• Problems with control of your body temperature .
Qbrexza can cause you to have decreased sweating in areas other than the underarm area which could cause you to become overheated and to develop heat illness .
When in hot or very warm temperatures , watch for lack of sweating on your body ( generalized ) and stop using Qbrexza if you develop lack of sweating on your body . Stop using Qbrexza and call your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of these symptoms of heat illness : • hot , red skin • decreased alertness or passing out ( unconsciousness ) • fast , weak pulse • fast , shallow breathing • increased body temperature ( fever ) • Blurred vision .
If you develop blurred vision during treatment with Qbrexza , call your healthcare provider , stop using Qbrexza and do not drive , or operate machinery , or do hazardous work until your vision is clear .
• The most common side effects of Qbrexza include : • dry mouth • dilation of the pupils of your eyes ( mydriasis ) • sore throat • skin redness , burning / stinging or itching in underarm area • headache • problems with urination • blurred vision • nasal dryness • throat , eye , and skin dryness • constipation These are not all of the possible side effects of Qbrexza .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Qbrexza ?
• Store Qbrexza at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Qbrexza is flammable .
Keep Qbrexza away from heat and flame .
Keep Qbrexza and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Qbrexza .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Qbrexza for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Qbrexza to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Qbrexza that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Qbrexza ?
Active Ingredient : glycopyrronium tosylate Inactive Ingredients : citric acid , dehydrated alcohol , purified water , and sodium citrate Manufactured for : Journey Medical Corporation , Scottsdale , AZ 85258 For more information , go to www . Qbrexza . com or call 1 - 855 - 531 - 1859 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69489 - 411 - 01 - 1 - Count Pouch Label NDC 69489 - 411 - 01 Rx Only 1 Single - use Cloth Qbrexza ® ( glycopyrronium ) cloth 2 . 4 % For Topical Use Only Each pouch contains 1 cloth with 2 . 8 grams of solution Avoid touching eyes .
Wash hands with soap and water immediately after discarding the used cloth .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69489 - 411 - 30 - 30 - Count Carton Label NDC 69489 - 411 - 30 Rx Only Qbrexza ® ( glycopyrronium ) cloth 2 . 4 % For Topical Use Only 30 Single - use Cloths www . Qbrexza . com Avoid touching eyes .
Wash hands with soap and water immediately after discarding the used cloth .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
