DESCRIPTION Propoxyphene napsylate USP is an odorless , white crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is very slightly soluble in water and soluble in methanol , ethanol , chloroform , and acetone .
Chemically , it is ( αS , 1 R ) - α - [ 2 - ( Dimethylamino ) - 1 - methylethyl ] - α - phenylphenethyl propionate compound with 2 - naphthalenesulfonic acid ( 1 : 1 ) monohydrate , which can be represented by the accompanying structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Propoxyphene napsylate differs from propoxyphene hydrochloride in that it allows more stable liquid dosage forms and tablet formulations .
Because of differences in molecular weight , a dose of 100 mg ( 176 . 8 μmol ) of propoxyphene napsylate is required to supply an amount of propoxyphene equivalent to that present in 65 mg ( 172 . 9 μmol ) of propoxyphene hydrochloride .
The acetaminophen component is 4 ′ - Hydroxyacetanilide , a white , odorless , crystalline powder possessing a slightly bitter taste , and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet of Propoxyphene Napsylate and Acetaminophen Tablets USP , for oral administration , contains 100 mg ( 176 . 8 μmol ) propoxyphene napsylate and 650 mg ( 4 , 300 μmol ) acetaminophen .
Each pink tablet also contains crospovidone , D and C Red No . 27 Aluminum Lake , FD and C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , silicon dioxide , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Each white tablet also contains crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , silicon dioxide , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Propoxyphene is a centrally acting narcotic analgesic agent .
Equimolar doses of propoxyphene hydrochloride or napsylate provide similar plasma concentrations .
Following administration of 65 , 130 , or 195 mg of propoxyphene hydrochloride , the bioavailability of propoxyphene is equivalent to that of 100 , 200 , or 300 mg respectively of propoxyphene napsylate .
Peak plasma concentrations of propoxyphene are reached in 2 to 2 1 / 2 hours .
After a 100 mg oral dose of propoxyphene napsylate , peak plasma levels of 0 . 05 to 0 . 1 mcg / mL are achieved .
As shown in Figure 1 , the napsylate salt tends to be absorbed more slowly than the hydrochloride .
At or near therapeutic doses , this absorption difference is small when compared with that among subjects and among doses .
Figure 1 .
Mean plasma concentrations of propoxyphene in 8 human subjects following oral administration of 65 and 130 mg of the hydrochloride salt and 100 and 200 mg of the napsylate salt and in 7 given 195 mg of the hydrochloride and 300 mg of the napsylate salt .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Because of this several hundredfold difference in solubility , the absorption rate of very large doses of the napsylate salt is significantly lower than that of equimolar doses of the hydrochloride .
Repeated doses of propoxyphene at 6 - hour intervals lead to increasing plasma concentrations , with a plateau after the ninth dose at 48 hours .
Propoxyphene is metabolized in the liver to yield norpropoxyphene .
Propoxyphene has a half - life of 6 to 12 hours , whereas that of norpropoxyphene is 30 to 36 hours .
Norpropoxyphene has substantially less central - nervous - system - depressant effect than propoxyphene but a greater local anesthetic effect , which is similar to that of amitriptyline and antiarrhythmic agents , such as lidocaine and quinidine .
In animal studies in which propoxyphene and norpropoxyphene were continuously infused in large amounts , intracardiac conduction time ( PR and QRS intervals ) was prolonged .
Any intracardiac conduction delay attributable to high concentrations of norpropoxyphene may be of relatively long duration .
ActionsPropoxyphene is a mild narcotic analgesic structurally related to methadone .
The potency of propoxyphene napsylate is from two thirds to equal that of codeine .
Propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets provide the analgesic activity of propoxyphene napsylate and the antipyretic - analgesic activity of acetaminophen .
The combination of propoxyphene and acetaminophen produces greater analgesia than that produced by either propoxyphene or acetaminophen administered alone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE This product is indicated for the relief of mild to moderate pain , either when pain is present alone or when it is accompanied by fever .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to propoxyphene or acetaminophen .
WARNINGS • Do not prescribe propoxyphene for patients who are suicidal or addiction - prone .
• Prescribe propoxyphene with caution for patients taking tranquilizers or antidepressant drugs and patients who use alcohol in excess .
• Tell your patients not to exceed the recommended dose and to limit their intake of alcohol .
Propoxyphene products in excessive doses , either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , are a major cause of drug - related deaths .
Fatalities within the first hour of overdosage are not uncommon .
In a survey of deaths due to overdosage conducted in 1975 , in approximately 20 % of the fatal cases , death occurred within the first hour ( 5 % occurred within 15 minutes ) .
Propoxyphene should not be taken in doses higher than those recommended by the physician .
The judicious prescribing of propoxyphene is essential to the safe use of this drug .
With patients who are depressed or suicidal , consideration should be given to the use of non - narcotic analgesics .
Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of propoxyphene products and alcohol because of potentially serious CNS - additive effects of these agents .
Because of its added depressant effects , propoxyphene should be prescribed with caution for those patients whose medical condition requires the concomitant administration of sedatives , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , antidepressants , or other CNS - depressant drugs .
Patients should be advised of the additive depressant effects of these combinations .
Many of the propoxyphene - related deaths have occurred in patients with previous histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation or attempts as well as histories of misuse of tranquilizers , alcohol , and other CNS - active drugs .
Some deaths have occurred as a consequence of the accidental ingestion of excessive quantities of propoxyphene alone or in combination with other drugs .
Patients taking propoxyphene should be warned not to exceed the dosage recommended by the physician .
Usage in Ambulatory Patients Propoxyphene may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralPropoxyphene should be administered with caution to patients with hepatic or renal impairment since higher serum concentrations or delayed elimination may occur .
Information for Patients See accompanying Patient Information Sheet .
Drug Interactions The CNS - depressant effect of propoxyphene is additive with that of other CNS depressants , including alcohol .
As is the case with many medicinal agents , propoxyphene may slow the metabolism of a concomitantly administered drug .
Should this occur , the higher serum concentrations of that drug may result in increased pharmacologic or adverse effects of that drug .
Such occurrences have been reported when propoxyphene was administered to patients on antidepressants , anticonvulsants , or warfarin - like drugs .
Severe neurologic signs , including coma , have occurred with concurrent use of carbamazepine .
Pregnancy Safe use in pregnancy has not been established relative to possible adverse effects on fetal development .
Instances of withdrawal symptoms in the neonate have been reported following usage during pregnancy .
Therefore , propoxyphene should not be used in pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers Low levels of propoxyphene have been detected in human milk .
In postpartum studies involving nursing mothers who were given propoxyphene , no adverse effects were noted in infants receiving mother ’ s milk .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use The rate of propoxyphene metabolism may be reduced in some patients .
Increased dosing interval should be considered .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a survey conducted in hospitalized patients , less than 1 % of patients taking propoxyphene hydrochloride at recommended doses experienced side effects .
The most frequently reported were dizziness , sedation , nausea , and vomiting .
Some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include constipation , abdominal pain , skin rashes , lightheadedness , headache , weakness , euphoria , dysphoria , hallucinations , and minor visual disturbances .
Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets .
Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and , more rarely , with instances of reversible jaundice ( including cholestatic jaundice ) .
Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
In chronic ethanol abusers , this has been reported rarely with short - term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2 . 5 to 10 g / day .
Fatalities have occurred .
Renal papillary necrosis may result from chronic acetaminophen use , particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin .
Subacute painful myopathy has occurred following chronic propoxyphene overdosage .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Propoxyphene , when taken in higher - than - recommended doses over long periods of time , can produce drug dependence characterized by psychic dependence and , less frequently , physical dependence and tolerance .
Propoxyphene will only partially suppress the withdrawal syndrome in individuals physically dependent on morphine or other narcotics .
The abuse liability of propoxyphene is qualitatively similar to that of codeine although quantitatively less , and propoxyphene should be prescribed with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of codeine .
OVERDOSAGE In all cases of suspected overdosage , call your regional Poison Control Center to obtain the most up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose .
This recommendation is made because , in general , information regarding the treatment of overdosage may change more rapidly than do package inserts .
Initial consideration should be given to the management of the CNS effects of propoxyphene overdosage .
Resuscitative measures should be initiated promptly .
Symptoms of Propoxyphene OverdosageThe manifestations of acute overdosage with propoxyphene are those of narcotic overdosage .
The patient is usually somnolent but may be stuporous or comatose and convulsing .
Respiratory depression is characteristic .
The ventilatory rate and / or tidal volume is decreased , which results in cyanosis and hypoxia .
Pupils , initially pinpoint , may become dilated as hypoxia increases .
Cheyne - Stokes respiration and apnea may occur .
Blood pressure and heart rate are usually normal initially , but blood pressure falls and cardiac performance deteriorates , which ultimately results in pulmonary edema and circulatory collapse , unless the respiratory depression is corrected and adequate ventilation is restored promptly .
Cardiac arrhythmias and conduction delay may be present .
A combined respiratory - metabolic acidosis occurs owing to retained CO2 ( hypercapnia ) and to lactic acid formed during anaerobic glycolysis .
Acidosis may be severe if large amounts of salicylates have also been ingested .
Death may occur .
Treatment of Propoxyphene Overdosage Attention should be directed first to establishing a patent airway and to restoring ventilation .
Mechanically assisted ventilation , with or without oxygen , may be required , and positive pressure respiration may be desirable if pulmonary edema is present .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone will markedly reduce the degree of respiratory depression , and 0 . 4 to 2 mg should be administered promptly , preferably intravenously .
If the desired degree of counteraction with improvement in respiratory functions is not obtained , naloxone should be repeated at 2 - to 3 - minute intervals .
The duration of action of the antagonist may be brief .
If no response is observed after 10 mg of naloxone have been administered , the diagnosis of propoxyphene toxicity should be questioned .
Naloxone may also be administered by continuous intravenous infusion .
Treatment of Propoxyphene Overdosage in Pediatric PatientsThe usual initial dose of naloxone in pediatric patients is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight given intravenously .
If this dose does not result in the desired degree of clinical improvement , a subsequent increased dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg body weight may be administered .
If an IV route of administration is not available , naloxone may be administered IM or subcutaneously in divided doses .
If necessary , naloxone can be diluted with Sterile Water for Injection .
Blood gases , pH , and electrolytes should be monitored in order that acidosis and any electrolyte disturbance present may be corrected promptly .
Acidosis , hypoxia , and generalized CNS depression predispose to the development of cardiac arrhythmias .
Ventricular fibrillation or cardiac arrest may occur and necessitate the full complement of cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) measures .
Respiratory acidosis rapidly subsides as ventilation is restored and hypercapnia eliminated , but lactic acidosis may require intravenous bicarbonate for prompt correction .
Electrocardiographic monitoring is essential .
Prompt correction of hypoxia , acidosis , and electrolyte disturbance ( when present ) will help prevent these cardiac complications and will increase the effectiveness of agents administered to restore normal cardiac function .
In addition to the use of a narcotic antagonist , the patient may require careful titration with an anticonvulsant to control convulsions .
Analeptic drugs ( for example , caffeine or amphetamine ) should not be used because of their tendency to precipitate convulsions .
General supportive measures , in addition to oxygen , include , when necessary , intravenous fluids , vasopressor - inotropic compounds , and , when infection is likely , anti - infective agents .
Gastric lavage may be useful , and activated charcoal can adsorb a significant amount of ingested propoxyphene .
Dialysis is of little value in poisoning due to propoxyphene .
Efforts should be made to determine whether other agents , such as alcohol , barbiturates , tranquilizers , or other CNS depressants , were also ingested , since these increase CNS depression as well as cause specific toxic effects .
Symptoms of Acetaminophen OverdosageShortly after oral ingestion or an overdose of acetaminophen and for the next 24 hours , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , general malaise , and abdominal pain have been noted .
The patient may then present no symptoms , but evidence of liver dysfunction may become apparent up to 72 hours after ingestion , with elevated serum transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase levels , an increase in serum bilirubin concentrations , and a prolonged prothrombin time .
Death from hepatic failure may result 3 to 7 days after overdosage .
Acute renal failure may accompany the hepatic dysfunction and has been noted in patients who do not exhibit signs of fulminant hepatic failure .
Typically , renal impairment is more apparent 6 to 9 days after ingestion of the overdose .
Treatment of Acetaminophen OverdosageAcetaminophen in massive overdosage may cause hepatic toxicity in some patients .
In all cases of suspected overdose , immediately call your regional poison center or the Rocky Mountain Poison Center ’ s toll - free number ( 800 - 525 - 6115 ) for assistance in diagnosis and for directions in the use of N - acetylcysteine as an antidote .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 g and fatalities with less than 15 g . Importantly , young children seem to be more resistant than adults to the hepatotoxic effect of an acetaminophen overdose .
Despite this , the measures outlined below should be initiated in any adult or pediatric patients suspected of having ingested an acetaminophen overdose .
Because clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours postingestion , liver function studies should be obtained initially and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Consider emptying the stomach promptly by lavage or by induction of emesis with syrup of ipecac .
Patients ’ estimates of the quantity of a drug ingested are notoriously unreliable .
Therefore , if an acetaminophen overdose is suspected , a serum acetaminophen assay should be obtained as early as possible , but no sooner than 4 hours following ingestion .
The antidote , N - acetylcysteine , should be administered as early as possible , and within 16 hours of the overdose ingestion for optimal results .
Following recovery , there are no residual , structural , or functional hepatic abnormalities .
HOW SUPPLIED This product is given orally .
The usual dosage is 100 mg propoxyphene napsylate and 650 mg acetaminophen every 4 hours as needed for pain .
The maximum recommended dose of propoxyphene napsylate is 600 mg per day .
Consideration should be given to a reduced total daily dosage in patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
HOW SUPPLIED Each white Propoxyphene Napsylate and Acetaminophen Tablet USP 100 mg / 650 mg is available as a capsule - shaped , white , coated tablet , one side debossed and the other side debossed “ 1721 ” .
Bottles of 15 ....................................... NDC 67296 - 0104 - 1 Dispense in tight containers .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The acute lethal doses of the hydrochloride and napsylate salts of propoxyphene were determined in 4 species .
The results shown in Figure 2 indicate that , on a molar basis , the napsylate salt is less toxic than the hydrochloride .
This may be due to the relative insolubility and retarded absorption of propoxyphene napsylate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Some indication of the relative insolubility and retarded absorption of propoxyphene napsylate was obtained by measuring plasma propoxyphene levels in 2 groups of 4 dogs following oral administration of equimolar doses of the 2 salts .
As shown in Figure 3 , the peak plasma concentration observed with propoxyphene hydrochloride was much higher than that obtained after administration of the napsylate salt .
Although none of the animals in this experiment died , 3 of the 4 dogs given propoxyphene hydrochloride exhibited convulsive seizures during the time interval corresponding to the peak plasma levels .
The 4 animals receiving the napsylate salt were mildly ataxic but not acutely ill .
Figure 3 .
Plasma propoxyphene concentrations in dogs following large doses of the hydrochloride and napsylate salts .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Mallinckrodt Inc . , Hazelwood , MO 63042 USA .
Printed in U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label copy of label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
