Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 cc disposable tube ) Purpose Docusate Sodium 283 mg Stool Softener Enema Benzocaine 20 mg Topical Analgesic Uses • For the relief of occasional constipation and / or aid in preventing constipation • Helps to reduce pain or rectal damage caused by hard stools or by straining during bowel movements • usually produces bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • appendicitis • symptoms of appendicitis ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain ) • bleeding from the rectum • undiagnosed bleeding • congestive heart failure • high blood pressure • fecal impaction • intestinal obstruction • been taking other prescriptions Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking mineral oils .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding from the rectum • you fail to have a bowel movement after using this product .
These may indicate a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion or overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions E - VAC ™ MINI - ENEMA & E - VAC ™ PLUS MINI - ENEMA is to be used as an enema .
This is not a suppository .
Do not take orally .
Administering the mini enema Twist off and remove tip .
Place water or a few drops of the product on the shaft of the tube to lubricate prior to insertion .
It is also recommended that one of these lubricants be applied to the anus before inserting the enema .
With steady pressure , gently insert the enema into the rectum with care to prevent damage to the rectal wall .
Squeeze to empty the contents .
Keep the tube squeezed until it is removed from the rectum .
After the contents have been emptied , remove the disposable tube and discard .
A small amount of liquid may remain in the unit after use .
Positioning • For best results , lay on left side with knees bent .
• Second position : Kneel , then lower head and chest forward until side of face resting on surface .
Other Information • each mini - enema contains : 283 mg sodium docusate • Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
• Protect from Freezing .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
• Below 50 % relative humidity is optimal .
• See box and tube crimp for Lot Number and Expiration Date .
Inactive ingredients a medicinal soft soap base of Polyethylene Glycol and Glycerin .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tube Box E - VAC Plus MINI - ENEMA Suavizante de Heces / Evacuante zürich medical labs 30 x 5 cc TUBOS DESECHABLES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
