DESCRIPTION Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is a white , crystalline tricyclic amine salt with the empirical formula C20H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 311 . 9 .
It has a melting point of 217 ° C , and a pKa of 8 . 47 at 25 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water and alcohol , sparingly soluble in isopropanol , and insoluble in hydrocarbon solvents .
If aqueous solutions are made alkaline , the free base separates .
Cyclobenzaprine HCl is designated chemically as 3 - ( 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cyclohepten - 5 - ylidene ) - N , N - dimethyl - 1 - propanamine hydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP are supplied as 5 mg and 10 mg tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Yellow # 6 , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide ; 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Red # 40 and 10 mg tablets contain D & C Yellow # 10 and polysorbate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclobenzaprine HCl relieves skeletal muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
It is ineffective in muscle spasm due to central nervous system disease .
Cyclobenzaprine reduced or abolished skeletal muscle hyperactivity in several animal models .
Animal studies indicate that cyclobenzaprine does not act at the neuromuscular junction or directly on skeletal muscle .
Such studies show that cyclobenzaprine acts primarily within the central nervous system at brain stem as opposed to spinal cord levels , although its action on the latter may contribute to its overall skeletal muscle relaxant activity .
Evidence suggests that the net effect of cyclobenzaprine is a reduction of tonic somatic motor activity , influencing both gamma ( γ ) and alpha ( α ) motor systems .
Pharmacological studies in animals showed a similarity between the effects of cyclobenzaprine and the structurally related tricyclic antidepressants , including reserpine antagonism , norepinephrine potentiation , potent peripheral and central anticholinergic effects , and sedation .
Cyclobenzaprine caused slight to moderate increase in heart rate in animals .
Clinical Studies Eight double - blind controlled clinical studies were performed in 642 patients comparing cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg , diazepam , and placebo .
Muscle spasm , local pain and tenderness , limitation of motion , and restriction in activities of daily living were evaluated .
In three of these studies there was a significantly greater improvement with cyclobenzaprine than with diazepam , while in the other studies the improvement following both treatments was comparable .
Although the frequency and severity of adverse reactions observed in patients treated with cyclobenzaprine were comparable to those observed in patients treated with diazepam , dry mouth was observed more frequently in patients treated with cyclobenzaprine and dizziness more frequently in those treated with diazepam .
The incidence of drowsiness , the most frequent adverse reaction , was similar with both drugs .
The efficacy of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 mg was demonstrated in two seven - day , double - blind , controlled clinical trials enrolling 1405 patients .
One study compared cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 and 10 mg t . i . d . to placebo ; and a second study compared cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 and 2 . 5 mg t . i . d . to placebo .
Primary endpoints for both trials were determined by patient - generated data and included global impression of change , medication helpfulness , and relief from starting backache .
Each endpoint consisted of a score on a 5 - point rating scale ( from 0 or worst outcome to 4 or best outcome ) .
Secondary endpoints included a physician ' s evaluation of the presence and extent of palpable muscle spasm .
Comparisons of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 mg and placebo groups in both trials established the statistically significant superiority of the 5 mg dose for all three primary endpoints at day 8 and , in the study comparing 5 and 10 mg , at day 3 or 4 as well .
A similar effect was observed with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 10 mg ( all endpoints ) .
Physician - assessed secondary endpoints also showed that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 mg was associated with a greater reduction in palpable muscle spasm than placebo .
Analysis of the data from controlled studies shows that cyclobenzaprine produces clinical improvement whether or not sedation occurs .
Surveillance Program A post - marketing surveillance program was carried out in 7607 patients with acute musculoskeletal disorders , and included 297 patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 10 mg for 30 days or longer .
The overall effectiveness of cyclobenzaprine was similar to that observed in the double - blind controlled studies ; the overall incidence of adverse effects was less ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Improvement is manifested by relief of muscle spasm and its associated signs and symptoms , namely , pain , tenderness , limitation of motion , and restriction in activities of daily living .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets should be used only for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets have not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease , or in children with cerebral palsy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
Hyperpyretic crisis seizures , and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine ( or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants ) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs .
Acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction , and patients with arrhythmias , heart block or conduction disturbances , or congestive heart failure .
Hyperthyroidism .
WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride when used in combination with other drugs , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
The concomitant use of Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride with MAO inhibitors is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , confusion , agitation , hallucinations ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , diaphoresis , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular abnormalities ( e . g . , tremor , ataxia , hyperreflexia , clonus , muscle rigidity ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Treatment with Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above reactions occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated .
If concomitant treatment with Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , careful observation is advised , particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cyclobenzaprine is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants , e . g . , amitriptyline and imipramine .
In short term studies for indications other than muscle spasm associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions , and usually at doses somewhat greater than those recommended for skeletal muscle spasm , some of the more serious central nervous system reactions noted with the tricyclic antidepressants have occurred ( see WARNINGS , below , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to produce arrhythmias , sinus tachycardia , prolongation of the conduction time leading to myocardial infarction and stroke .
Cyclobenzaprine may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
PRECAUTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS Incidence of most common adverse reactions in the 2 double - blind ‡ , placebo - controlled 5 mg studies ( incidence of > 3 % on cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 mg ) : Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets 5 mg N = 464 Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets 10 mg N = 249 Placebo N = 469 Drowsiness 29 % 38 % 10 % Dry Mouth 21 % 32 % 7 % Fatigue 6 % 6 % 3 % Headache 5 % 5 % 8 % Adverse reactions which were reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : abdominal pain , acid regurgitation , constipation , diarrhea , dizziness , nausea , irritability , mental acuity decreased , nervousness , upper respiratory infection , and pharyngitis .
The following list of adverse reactions is based on the experience in 473 patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 10 mg in additional controlled clinical studies , 7607 patients in the post - marketing surveillance program , and reports received since the drug was marketed .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions among patients in the surveillance program was less than the incidence in the controlled clinical studies .
The adverse reactions reported most frequently with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride were drowsiness , dry mouth and dizziness .
The incidence of these common adverse reactions was lower in the surveillance program than in the controlled clinical studies : ‡ Note : Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 10 mg data are from one clinical trial .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets 5 mg and placebo data are from two studies .
Clinical Studies with Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets 10 mg Surveillance Program with Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets 10 mg Drowsiness 39 % 16 % Dry Mouth 27 % 7 % Dizziness 11 % 3 % Among the less frequent adverse reactions , there was no appreciable difference in incidence in controlled clinical studies or in the surveillance program .
Adverse reactions which were reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : fatigue / tiredness , asthenia , nausea , constipation , dyspepsia , unpleasant taste , blurred vision , headache , nervousness , and confusion .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience or with an incidence of less than 1 % of patients in clinical trials with the 10 mg tablet : Body as a Whole : Syncope ; malaise .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia ; arrhythmia ; vasodilatation ; palpitation ; hypotension .
Digestive : Vomiting ; anorexia ; diarrhea ; gastrointestinal pain ; gastritis ; thirst ; flatulence ; edema of the tongue ; abnormal liver function and rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice and cholestasis .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis ; angioedema ; pruritus ; facial edema ; urticaria ; rash .
Musculoskeletal : Local weakness .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Seizures , ataxia ; vertigo ; dysarthria ; tremors ; hypertonia ; convulsions ; muscle twitching ; disorientation ; insomnia ; depressed mood ; abnormal sensations ; anxiety ; agitation ; psychosis , abnormal thinking and dreaming ; hallucinations ; excitement ; paresthesia ; diplopia , serotonin syndrome .
Skin : Sweating .
Special Senses : Ageusia ; tinnitus .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency and / or retention .
Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions , reported rarely for cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established or reported for other tricyclic drugs , are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians : Body as a Whole : Chest pain ; edema .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension ; myocardial infarction ; heart block ; stroke .
Digestive : Paralytic ileus ; tongue discoloration ; stomatitis ; parotid swelling .
Endocrine : Inappropriate ADH syndrome .
Hematic and Lymphatic : Purpura ; bone marrow depression ; leukopenia ; eosinophilia ; thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic , Nutritional and Immune : Elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels ; weight gain or loss .
Musculoskeletal : Myalgia .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Decreased or increased libido ; abnormal gait ; delusions ; aggressive behavior ; paranoia ; peripheral neuropathy ; Bell ' s palsy ; alteration in EEG patterns ; extrapyramidal symptoms .
Respiratory : Dyspnea .
Skin : Photosensitization ; alopecia .
Urogenital : Impaired urination ; dilatation of urinary tract ; impotence ; testicular swelling ; gynecomastia ; breast enlargement ; galactorrhea .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic drugs require that certain withdrawal symptoms be considered when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is administered , even though they have not been reported to occur with this drug .
Abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged administration rarely may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
These are not indicative of addiction .
OVERDOSAGE Although rare , deaths may occur from overdosage with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate cyclobenzaprine overdose .
As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity may develop rapidly after cyclobenzaprine overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
The acute oral LD50 of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is approximately 338 and 425 mg / kg in mice and rats , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients , the recommended dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg three times a day .
Based on individual patient response , the dose may be increased to 10 mg three times a day .
Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Less frequent dosing should be considered for hepatically impaired or elderly patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Impaired Hepatic Function , and Use in the Elderly ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 5 mg round , orange film - coated tablets , debossed " 2631 " on one side and debossed " V " on the reverse side .
You may report side effects to Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 951 - 270 - 0816 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
You may also report side effects to Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Repackaged by : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured for : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA 8182950 - 01 Revised : 02 / 2017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
