Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses • • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • • common cold • • hay fever • • upper respiratory allergies • • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • • do not use more than directed • • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• • children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor Shake well before use .
Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the proactive cap on tip .
Other information • • store at room temperature How to use : • Push down cap while turning counter - clockwise and remove cap .
Remove clip under rim .
Secure cap after use .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL OVER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , camphor , edetate disodium , eucalyptol , menthol , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Best Choice ® NDC # 63941 - 721 - 30 COMPARE TO ACTIVE INGREDIENT AFRIN ® NO DRIP ALLERGY SINUS * 12 HOUR NO - DRIP ALLERGY SINUS Nasal Mist OXYMETAZOLINE HCL 0 . 05 % NASAL DECONGESTANT • • Fast and Powerful Congestion Relief Allergens 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) Best Choice ® 100 % Guaranteed www . bestchoicebrand . com PROUDLY DISTRIBUTED BY : VALU MERCHANDISERS , CO .
5000 KANSAS AVE KANSAS CITY , KS 66106 BEST CHOICE IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC , distributor of Afrin ® No Drip Severe Congestion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
