[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient Step 1 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 2 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 3 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Use reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Do not use • • if you continue to smoke , chew tobacco , use snuff , use nicotine gum , or use another nicotine patch or other nicotine containing products Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • an allergy to adhesive tape or have skin problems , because you are more likely to get rashes .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • • do not smoke even when not wearing the patch .
The nicotine in your skin will still be entering your blood stream for several hours after you take off the patch .
• • if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or if your skin swells , or you get a rash • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose , such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness and rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
Directions • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • • before using this product , read the enclosed self - help guide for complete directions and other information • • stop smoking completely when you begin using the patch • • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use the following schedule below : STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Use one 21 mg patch / day Use one 14 mg patch / day Use one 7 mg patch / day Weeks 1 - 4 Weeks 5 - 6 Weeks 7 - 8 • • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 for 6 weeks , then Step 3 for 2 weeks and then stop • • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean and hairless • • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• • wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
• • the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • • if you have vivid dreams , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • • do not wear more than one patch at a time • • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • • to avoid possible burns , remove patch before undergoing any MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) procedures • • stop using the patch at the end of 8 weeks .
If you still feel the need to use the patch talk to your doctor .
• Other information store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Acrylate adhesive , aluminized polyester , cellulose paper , methacrylic acid copolymer Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 585 - 8682 Weekdays ( 9 am - 8 pm ET ) or visit us at www . habitrol . com TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
2 .
Use one patch daily according to directions .
3 .
It is important to complete treatment .
4 .
If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
5 .
Use patch with a behavioural support program , such as the one described in the enclosed booklet .
For your family ' s protection , patches are supplied in child - resistant pouches .
Do not use if individual pouch is open or torn .
• • Not for sale to persons under 18 years of age .
• • Proof of age required .
• • Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified .
Principal Display Panel Kit Nicotine Transdermal SystemPATCH Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ]
