Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 ) 10 / 2021 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 5 , 2 . 6 ) 10 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 11 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide oral solution is indicated for : • Treatment of partial - onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Partial - Onset Seizures Lacosamide oral solution is indicated for the treatment of partial - onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Adults ( 17 years and older ) : • Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial - onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial - onset seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability , no more frequently than once per week ( 2 . 1 ) • Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2 . 3 , 12 . 3 ) • Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment ; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2 . 4 , 12 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial - onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1 .
In pediatric patients , the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight .
Dosage should be increased based on clinical response and tolerability , no more frequently than once per week .
Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosages for Partial - Onset Seizures ( Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy ) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older * Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults ( 17 years and older ) Monotherapy ** : 100 mg twice daily ( 200 mg per day ) Adjunctive Therapy : 50 mg twice daily ( 100 mg per day ) Increase by 50 mg twice daily ( 100 mg per day ) every week Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 300 mg to 400 mg per day ) Adjunctive Therapy : 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 200 mg to 400 mg per day ) Alternate Initial Dosage : 200 mg single loading dose , followed 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more 50 mg twice daily ( 100 mg per day ) Increase by 50 mg twice daily ( 100 mg per day ) every week Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 300 mg to 400 mg per day ) Adjunctive Therapy : 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 200 mg to 400 mg per day ) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 mg / kg / day ) Increase by 1 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 mg / kg / day ) every week 2 mg / kg to 4 mg / kg twice daily ( 4 mg / kg / day to 8 mg / kg / day ) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 mg / kg / day ) Increase by 1 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 mg / kg / day ) every week 3 mg / kg to 6 mg / kg twice daily ( 6 mg / kg / day to 12 mg / kg / day ) * when not specified , the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial - onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial - onset seizures .
** Monotherapy for partial - onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial - onset seizures , a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily ( 400 mg per day ) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Loading Dose in Adult Patients ( 17 Years and Older ) Lacosamide oral solution may be initiated in adult patients with a single loading dose of 200 mg , followed approximately 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily ( 200 mg per day ) .
The maintenance dose regimen should be continued for one week .
Lacosamide oral solution can then be titrated as recommended in Table 1 .
The adult loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the increased incidence of CNS adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The use of a loading dose in pediatric patients has not been studied .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 2 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic ( AED ) to Lacosamide Oral Solution Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial - Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide oral solution monotherapy , withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide oral solution is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days .
A gradual withdrawal of the concomitant AED over at least 6 weeks is recommended .
2 . 3 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment , no dosage adjustment is necessary .
For patients with severe renal impairment [ creatinine clearance ( CLCR ) less than 30 mL / min as estimated by the Cockcroft - Gault equation for adults ; CLCR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients ] or end - stage renal disease , a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dosage is recommended .
In all patients with renal impairment , the dose titration should be performed with caution .
Hemodialysis Lacosamide oral solution is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis .
Following a 4 - hour hemodialysis treatment , dosage supplementation of up to 50 % should be considered .
Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Information for Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dosage is recommended .
The dose titration should be performed with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Lacosamide oral solution use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Administration Instructions for Lacosamide Oral Solution Lacosamide oral solution may be taken with or without food .
Lacosamide Oral Solution A calibrated measuring device is recommended to measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately .
A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device .
Lacosamide oral solution may also be administered using a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy tube .
Discard any unused lacosamide oral solution remaining after 6 months of first opening the bottle .
2 . 7 Discontinuation of Lacosamide Oral Solution When discontinuing lacosamide oral solution , a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Lacosamide Oral Solution , USP • 10 mg / mL : clear , colorless to yellow or yellow - brown , strawberry - flavored liquid • 10 mg / mL oral solution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Monitor patients for suicidal behavior and ideation ( 5 . 1 ) • Lacosamide oral solution may cause dizziness and ataxia ( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities : Obtaining ECG before beginning and after titration to steady - state maintenance is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction ; closely monitor these patients ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 2 ) • Lacosamide oral solution may cause syncope ( 5 . 4 ) • Lacosamide oral solution should be gradually withdrawn to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency ( 5 . 5 ) • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multi - Organ Hypersensitivity : Discontinue if no alternate etiology ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , including lacosamide oral solution , increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication .
Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression , suicidal thoughts or behavior , and / or any unusual changes in mood or behavior .
Pooled analyses of 199 placebo - controlled clinical trials ( mono - and adjunctive therapy ) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk ( adjusted Relative Risk 1 . 8 , 95 % CI : 1 . 2 , 2 . 7 ) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo .
In these trials , which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks , the estimated incidence of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27 , 863 AED - treated patients was 0 . 43 % , compared to 0 . 24 % among 16 , 029 placebo - treated patients , representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated .
There were four suicides in drug - treated patients in the trials and none in placebo - treated patients , but the number of events is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed .
Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks , the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed .
The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed .
The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication .
The risk did not vary substantially by age ( 5 to 100 years ) in the clinical trials analyzed .
Table 2 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs .
Table 2 : Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1 , 000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1 , 000 Patients Relative Risk : Incidence of Events in Drug Patients / Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference : Additional Drug Patientswith Events Per 1 , 000 Patients Epilepsy 1 . 0 3 . 4 3 . 5 2 . 4 Psychiatric 5 . 7 8 . 5 1 . 5 2 . 9 Other 1 . 0 1 . 8 1 . 9 0 . 9 Total 2 . 4 4 . 3 1 . 8 1 . 9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions , but the absolute risk differences were similar .
Anyone considering prescribing lacosamide oral solution or any other AED must balance this risk with the risk of untreated illness .
Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which antiepileptics are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior .
Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment , the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated .
5 . 2 Dizziness and Ataxia Lacosamide oral solution may cause dizziness and ataxia in adult and pediatric patients .
In adult patients with partial - onset seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant AEDs , dizziness was experienced by 25 % of patients randomized to the recommended doses ( 200 to 400 mg / day ) of lacosamide oral solution ( compared with 8 % of placebo patients ) and was the adverse event most frequently leading to discontinuation ( 3 % ) .
Ataxia was experienced by 6 % of patients randomized to the recommended doses ( 200 to 400 mg / day ) of lacosamide oral solution ( compared to 2 % of placebo patients ) .
The onset of dizziness and ataxia was most commonly observed during titration .
There was a substantial increase in these adverse events at doses higher than 400 mg / day [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities PR Interval Prolongation , Atrioventricular Block , and Ventricular Tachyarrhythmia Dose - dependent prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide oral solution have been observed in clinical studies in adult patients and in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial - onset seizures , asymptomatic first - degree atrioventricular ( AV ) block was observed as an adverse reaction in 0 . 4 % ( 4 / 944 ) of patients randomized to receive lacosamide oral solution and 0 % ( 0 / 364 ) of patients randomized to receive placebo .
One case of profound bradycardia was observed in a patient during a 15 - minute infusion of 150 mg lacosamide oral solution .
When lacosamide oral solution is given with other drugs that prolong the PR interval , further PR prolongation is possible .
In the postmarketing setting , there have been reports of cardiac arrhythmias in patients treated with lacosamide oral solution , including bradycardia , AV block , and ventricular tachyarrhythmia , which have rarely resulted in asystole , cardiac arrest , and death .
Most , although not all , cases have occurred in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions , or in those taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction or prolong the PR interval .
These events have occurred with both oral and intravenous routes of administration and at prescribed doses as well as in the setting of overdose [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Lacosamide oral solution should be used with caution in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as known cardiac conduction problems ( e . g . , marked first - degree AV block , second - degree or higher AV block and sick sinus syndrome without pacemaker ) , severe cardiac disease ( such as myocardial ischemia or heart failure , or structural heart disease ) , and cardiac sodium channelopathies ( e . g . , Brugada Syndrome ) .
Lacosamide oral solution should also be used with caution in patients on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction , including sodium channel blockers , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , potassium channel blockers , and medications that prolong the PR interval [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
In such patients , obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide oral solution , and after lacosamide oral solution is titrated to steady - state maintenance dose , is recommended .
In addition , these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Atrial Fibrillation and Atrial Flutter In the short - term investigational trials of lacosamide oral solution in adult patients with partial - onset seizures there were no cases of atrial fibrillation or flutter .
Both atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter have been reported in open label partial - onset seizure trials and in postmarketing experience .
In adult patients with diabetic neuropathy , for which lacosamide oral solution is not indicated , 0 . 5 % of patients treated with lacosamide oral solution experienced an adverse reaction of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter , compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Lacosamide oral solution administration may predispose to atrial arrhythmias ( atrial fibrillation or flutter ) , especially in patients with diabetic neuropathy and / or cardiovascular disease .
5 . 4 Syncope In the short - term controlled trials of lacosamide oral solution in adult patients with partial - onset seizures with no significant system illnesses , there was no increase in syncope compared to placebo .
In the short - term controlled trials in adult patients with diabetic neuropathy , for which lacosamide oral solution is not indicated , 1 . 2 % of patients who were treated with lacosamide oral solution reported an adverse reaction of syncope or loss of consciousness , compared with 0 % of placebo - treated patients with diabetic neuropathy .
Most of the cases of syncope were observed in patients receiving doses above 400 mg / day .
The cause of syncope was not determined in most cases .
However , several were associated with either changes in orthostatic blood pressure , atrial flutter / fibrillation ( and associated tachycardia ) , or bradycardia .
Cases of syncope have also been observed in open - label clinical partial - onset seizure studies in adult and pediatric patients .
These cases were associated with a history of risk factors for cardiac disease and the use of drugs that slow AV conduction .
5 . 5 Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs ( AEDs ) As with all AEDs , lacosamide oral solution should be withdrawn gradually ( over a minimum of 1 week ) to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency in patients with seizure disorders .
5 . 6 Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multi - Organ Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) , also known as multi - organ hypersensitivity , has been reported in patients taking antiepileptic drugs , including lacosamide oral solution .
Some of these events have been fatal or life - threatening .
DRESS typically , although not exclusively , presents with fever , rash , lymphadenopathy and / or facial swelling , in association with other organ system involvement , such as hepatitis , nephritis , hematologic abnormalities , myocarditis , or myositis , sometimes resembling an acute viral infection .
Eosinophilia is often present .
This disorder is variable in its expression , and other organ systems not noted here may be involved .
It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity ( e . g . , fever , lymphadenopathy ) may be present even though rash is not evident .
If such signs or symptoms are present , the patient should be evaluated immediately .
Lacosamide oral solution should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established .
5 . 7 Risks in Patients with Phenylketonuria Phenylalanine can be harmful in patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
Lacosamide oral solution contains aspartame , a source of phenylalanine .
A 200 mg dose of lacosamide oral solution ( equivalent to 20 mL ) contains 0 . 56 mg of phenylalanine .
Before prescribing lacosamide oral solution to a patient with PKU , consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources , including lacosamide oral solution .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Dizziness and Ataxia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Adjunctive therapy : Most common adverse reactions in adults ( ≥ 10 % and greater than placebo ) are diplopia , headache , dizziness , nausea , and somnolence ( 6 . 1 ) • Monotherapy : Most common adverse reactions are similar to those seen in adjunctive therapy studies ( 6 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients : Adverse reactions are similar to those seen in adult patients ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASCRX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Lacosamide Oral Solution in Adults In the premarketing development of adjunctive therapy for partial - onset seizures , 1 , 327 adult patients received lacosamide tablets in controlled and uncontrolled trials , of whom 1 , 000 were treated for longer than 6 months , and 852 for longer than 12 months .
The monotherapy development program for partial - onset seizures included 425 adult patients , 310 of whom were treated for longer than 6 months , and 254 for longer than 12 months .
Partial - Onset Seizures Monotherapy Historical - Control Trial ( Study 1 ) In the monotherapy trial for partial - onset seizures , 16 % of patients randomized to receive lacosamide oral solution at the recommended doses of 300 and 400 mg / day discontinued from the trial as a result of an adverse reaction .
The adverse reaction most commonly ( ≥ 1 % on lacosamide oral solution ) leading to discontinuation was dizziness .
Adverse reactions that occurred in this study were generally similar to those that occurred in adjunctive placebo - controlled studies .
One adverse reaction , insomnia , occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % and was not reported at a similar rate in previous studies .
This adverse reaction has also been observed in postmarketing experience [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Because this study did not include a placebo control group , causality could not be established .
Dizziness , headache , nausea , somnolence , and fatigue all occurred at lower incidences during the AED Withdrawal Phase and Monotherapy Phase , compared with the Titration Phase [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Adjunctive Therapy Controlled Trials ( Studies 2 , 3 , and 4 ) In adjunctive therapy controlled clinical trials for partial - onset seizures , the rate of discontinuation as a result of an adverse reaction was 8 % and 17 % in patients randomized to receive lacosamide oral solution at the recommended doses of 200 and 400 mg / day , respectively , 29 % at 600 mg / day ( 1 . 5 times greater than the maximum recommended dose ) , and 5 % in patients randomized to receive placebo .
The adverse reactions most commonly ( > 1 % on lacosamide oral solution and greater than placebo ) leading to discontinuation were dizziness , ataxia , vomiting , diplopia , nausea , vertigo , and blurred vision .
Table 3 gives the incidence of adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of adult patients with partial - onset seizures in the lacosamide oral solution total group and for which the incidence was greater than placebo .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Incidence in Adjunctive Therapy Pooled , Placebo - Controlled Trials in Adult Patients with Partial - Onset Seizures ( Studies 2 , 3 , and 4 ) Adverse Reaction Placebo N = 364 % Lacosamide Oral Solution 200 mg / day N = 270 % Lacosamide Oral Solution 400 mg / day N = 471 % Lacosamide Oral Solution 600 mg / day * N = 203 % Lacosamide Oral Solution Total N = 944 % Ear and labyrinth disorder Vertigo 1 5 3 4 4 Eye disorders Diplopia 2 6 10 16 11 Blurred Vision 3 2 9 16 8 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 4 7 11 17 11 Vomiting 3 6 9 16 9 Diarrhea 3 3 5 4 4 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 6 7 7 15 9 Gait disturbance < 1 < 1 2 4 2 Asthenia 1 2 2 4 2 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Contusion 3 3 4 2 3 Skin laceration 2 2 3 3 3 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 8 16 30 53 31 Headache 9 11 14 12 13 Ataxia 2 4 7 15 8 Somnolence 5 5 8 8 7 Tremor 4 4 6 12 7 Nystagmus 4 2 5 10 5 Balance disorder 0 1 5 6 4 Memory impairment 2 1 2 6 2 Psychiatric disorders Depression 1 2 2 2 2 Skin and subcutaneous disorders Pruritus 1 3 2 3 2 * 600 mg dose is 1 . 5 times greater than the maximum recommended dose .
The overall adverse reaction rate was similar in male and female patients .
Although there were few non - Caucasian patients , no differences in the incidences of adverse reactions compared to Caucasian patients were observed .
Lacosamide Oral Solution in Pediatric Patients Safety of lacosamide oral solution was evaluated in clinical studies of pediatric patients 4 to less than 17 years of age for the treatment of partial - onset seizures .
Across studies in pediatric patients with partial - onset seizures , 328 patients 4 to less than 17 years of age received Lacosamide oral solution or tablet , of whom 148 received lacosamide for at least 1 year .
Adverse reactions reported in clinical studies of pediatric patients 4 to less than 17 years of age were similar to those seen in adult patients .
Laboratory Abnormalities Abnormalities in liver function tests have occurred in controlled trials with lacosamide oral solution in adult patients with partial - onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant anti - epileptic drugs .
Elevations of ALT to ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0 . 7 % ( 7 / 935 ) of lacosamide oral solution patients and 0 % ( 0 / 356 ) of placebo patients .
One case of hepatitis with transaminases > 20 x ULN occurred in one healthy subject 10 days after lacosamide oral solution treatment completion , along with nephritis ( proteinuria and urine casts ) .
Serologic studies were negative for viral hepatitis .
Transaminases returned to normal within one month without specific treatment .
At the time of this event , bilirubin was normal .
The hepatitis / nephritis was interpreted as a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to lacosamide oral solution .
Other Adverse Reactions The following is a list of adverse reactions reported by patients treated with lacosamide oral solution in all clinical trials in adult patients , including controlled trials and long - term open - label extension trials .
Adverse reactions addressed in other tables or sections are not listed here .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : neutropenia , anemia Cardiac disorders : palpitations Ear and labyrinth disorders : tinnitus Gastrointestinal disorders : constipation , dyspepsia , dry mouth , oral hypoaesthesia General disorders and administration site conditions : irritability , pyrexia , feeling drunk Injury , poisoning , and procedural complications : fall Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscle spasms Nervous system disorders : paresthesia , cognitive disorder , hypoaesthesia , dysarthria , disturbance in attention , cerebellar syndrome Psychiatric disorders : confusional state , mood altered , depressed mood Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of lacosamide oral solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Agranulocytosis Psychiatric disorders : Aggression , agitation , hallucination , insomnia , psychotic disorder Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Angioedema , rash , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Neurologic disorders : Dyskinesia , new or worsening seizures 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 may have a significant increase in exposure to lacosamide oral solution .
Dose reduction may be necessary in these patients .
7 . 2 Concomitant Medications that Affect Cardiac Conduction Lacosamide oral solution should be used with caution in patients on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction ( sodium channel blockers , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , potassium channel blockers ) including those that prolong PR interval ( including sodium channel blocking AEDs ) , because of a risk of AV block , bradycardia , or ventricular tachyarrhythmia .
In such patients , obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide oral solution , and after lacosamide oral solution is titrated to steady - state , is recommended .
In addition , these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , such as lacosamide oral solution , during pregnancy .
Encourage women who are taking lacomsamide oral solution during pregnancy to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) pregnancy registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 or visiting http : / / www . aedpregnancyregistry . org / .
Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with the use of lacosamide oral solution in pregnant women .
Lacosamide produced developmental toxicity ( increased embryofetal and perinatal mortality , growth deficit ) in rats following administration during pregnancy .
Developmental neurotoxicity was observed in rats following administration during a period of postnatal development corresponding to the third trimester of human pregnancy .
These effects were observed at doses associated with clinically relevant plasma exposures ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of lacosamide to pregnant rats ( 20 , 75 , or 200 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( 6 . 25 , 12 . 5 , or 25 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis did not produce any effects on the incidences of fetal structural abnormalities .
However , the maximum doses evaluated were limited by maternal toxicity in both species and embryofetal death in rats .
These doses were associated with maternal plasma lacosamide exposures ( AUC ) approximately 2 and 1 times ( rat and rabbit , respectively ) that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 400 mg / day .
In two studies in which lacosamide ( 25 , 70 , or 200 mg / kg / day and 50 , 100 , or 200 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation , increased perinatal mortality and decreased body weights in the offspring were observed at the highest dose tested .
The no - effect dose for pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity in rats ( 70 mg / kg / day ) was associated with a maternal plasma lacosamide AUC similar to that in humans at the MRHD .
Oral administration of lacosamide ( 30 , 90 , or 180 mg / kg / day ) to rats during the neonatal and juvenile periods of development resulted in decreased brain weights and long - term neurobehavioral changes ( altered open field performance , deficits in learning and memory ) .
The early postnatal period in rats is generally thought to correspond to late pregnancy in humans in terms of brain development .
The no - effect dose for developmental neurotoxicity in rats was associated with a plasma lacosamide AUC less than that in humans at the MRHD .
In Vitro Data Lacosamide has been shown in vitro to interfere with the activity of collapsin response mediator protein - 2 ( CRMP - 2 ) , a protein involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal outgrowth .
Potential adverse effects on CNS development related to this activity cannot be ruled out .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lacosamide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Studies in lactating rats have shown excretion of lacosamide and / or its metabolites in milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for lacosamide oral solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from lacosamide oral solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Partial - Onset Seizures Safety and effectiveness of lacosamide oral solution for the treatment of partial - onset seizures have been established in pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age .
Use of lacosamide oral solution in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of lacosamide oral solution in adults with partial - onset seizures , pharmacokinetic data from adult and pediatric patients , and safety data in 328 pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below 1 month of age have not been established .
Animal Data Lacosamide has been shown in vitro to interfere with the activity of collapsin response mediator protein - 2 ( CRMP - 2 ) , a protein involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal outgrowth .
Potential related adverse effects on CNS development cannot be ruled out .
Administration of lacosamide to rats during the neonatal and juvenile periods of postnatal development ( approximately equivalent to neonatal through adolescent development in humans ) resulted in decreased brain weights and long - term neurobehavioral changes ( altered open field performance , deficits in learning and memory ) .
The no - effect dose for developmental neurotoxicity in rats was associated with a plasma lacosamide exposure ( AUC ) less than that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose of 400 mg / day .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There were insufficient numbers of elderly patients enrolled in partial - onset seizure trials ( n = 18 ) to adequately determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
No lacosamide oral solution dose adjustment based on age is necessary .
In elderly patients , dose titration should be performed with caution , usually starting at the lower end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic function , decreased renal function , increased cardiac conduction abnormalities , and polypharmacy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Based on data in adults , no dose adjustment is necessary in adult and pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLCR ≥ 30 mL / min ) .
In adult and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment ( CLCR < 30 mL / min ) and in those with end - stage renal disease , a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dosage is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In all patients with renal impairment , dose titration should be performed with caution .
Lacosamide oral solution is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis .
Dosage supplementation of up to 50 % following hemodialysis should be considered .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Based on data in adults , for adult and pediatric patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment , a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dosage is recommended .
Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be observed closely during dose titration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide has not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment .
Lacosamide oral solution use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Lacosamide oral solution is a Schedule V controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse In a human abuse potential study , single doses of 200 mg and 800 mg lacosamide produced euphoria - type subjective responses that differentiated statistically from placebo ; at 800 mg , these euphoria - type responses were statistically indistinguishable from those produced by alprazolam , a Schedule IV drug .
The duration of the euphoria - type responses following lacosamide was less than that following alprazolam .
A high rate of euphoria was also reported as an adverse event in the human abuse potential study following single doses of 800 mg lacosamide ( 15 % [ 5 / 34 ] ) compared to placebo ( 0 % ) and in two pharmacokinetic studies following single and multiple doses of 300 to 800 mg lacosamide ( ranging from 6 % [ 2 / 33 ] to 25 % [ 3 / 12 ] ) compared to placebo ( 0 % ) .
However , the rate of euphoria reported as an adverse event in the lacosamide oral solution development program at therapeutic doses was less than 1 % .
9 . 3 Dependence Abrupt termination of lacosamide in clinical trials with diabetic neuropathic pain patients produced no signs or symptoms that are associated with a withdrawal syndrome indicative of physical dependence .
However , psychological dependence cannot be excluded due to the ability of lacosamide to produce euphoria - type adverse events in humans .
10 OVERDOSAGE Events reported after an intake of more than 800 mg ( twice the maximum recommended daily dosage ) of lacosamide oral solution include dizziness , nausea , and seizures ( generalized tonic - clonic seizures , status epilepticus ) .
Cardiac conduction disorders , confusion , decreased level of consciousness , cardiogenic shock , cardiac arrest , and coma have also been observed .
Fatalities have occurred following lacosamide overdoses of several grams .
There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide oral solution .
Standard decontamination procedures should be followed .
General supportive care of the patient is indicated including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the clinical status of patient .
A Certified Poison Control Center should be contacted for up to date information on the management of overdose with lacosamide oral solution .
Standard hemodialysis procedures result in significant clearance of lacosamide oral solution ( reduction of systemic exposure by 50 % in 4 hours ) .
Hemodialysis may be indicated based on the patient ' s clinical state or in patients with significant renal impairment .
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name of lacosamide , the single ( R ) - enantiomer , is ( R ) - 2 - acetamido - N - benzyl - 3 methoxypropionamide ( IUPAC ) .
Lacosamide is a functionalized amino acid .
Its molecular formula is C13H18N2O3and its molecular weight is 250 . 30 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lacosamide , USP is a white to light yellow powder .
It is freely soluble in methanol , soluble in anhydrous ethanol , sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in acetonitrile , and practically insoluble in heptane .
11 . 3 Lacosamide Oral Solution , USP Lacosamide oral solution , USP contains 10 mg of lacosamide per mL .
The inactive ingredients are acesulfame potassium , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , methyl paraben , noncrystallizing sorbitol solution , polyethylene glycol , sodium chloride , strawberry flavor ( propylene glycol , artificial flavors , acetic acid ) , masking flavor ( propylene glycol , water , acetic acid , artificial flavors , ammoniated glycyrrhizin , aspartame acesulfame ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which lacosamide oral solution exerts its antiepileptic effects in humans remains to be fully elucidated .
In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage - gated sodium channels , resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable neuronal membranes and inhibition of repetitive neuronal firing .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics A pharmacokinetic - pharmacodynamic ( efficacy ) analysis was performed based on the pooled data from the 3 efficacy trials for partial - onset seizures .
Lacosamide exposure is correlated with the reduction in seizure frequency .
However , doses above 400 mg / day do not appear to confer additional benefit in group analyses .
Cardiac Electrophysiology Electrocardiographic effects of lacosamide oral solution were determined in a double - blind , randomized clinical pharmacology trial of 247 healthy subjects .
Chronic oral doses of 400 and 800 mg / day were compared with placebo and a positive control ( 400 mg moxifloxacin ) .
Lacosamide oral solution did not prolong QTc interval and did not have a dose - related or clinically important effect on QRS duration .
Lacosamide oral solution produced a small , dose - related increase in mean PR interval .
At steady - state , the time of the maximum observed mean PR interval corresponded with tmax .
The placebo - subtracted maximum increase in PR interval ( at tmax ) was 7 . 3 ms for the 400 mg / day group and 11 . 9 ms for the 800 mg / day group .
For patients who participated in the controlled trials , the placebo - subtracted mean maximum increase in PR interval for a 400 mg / day lacosamide oral solution dose was 3 . 1 ms in patients with partial - onset seizures and 9 . 4 ms for patients with diabetic neuropathy .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution have been studied in healthy adult subjects ( age range 18 to 87 ) , adults with partial - onset seizures , adults with diabetic neuropathy , and subjects with renal and hepatic impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution are similar in healthy subjects , patients with partial - onset seizures , and patients with primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures .
Lacosamide oral solution is completely absorbed after oral administration with negligible first - pass effect with a high absolute bioavailability of approximately 100 % .
The maximum lacosamide plasma concentrations occur approximately 1 to 4 hour post - dose after oral dosing , and elimination half - life is approximately 13 hours .
Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after 3 days of twice daily repeated administration .
Pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution are dose proportional ( 100 to 800 mg ) and time invariant , with low inter - and intra - subject variability .
Compared to lacosamide the major metabolite , O - desmethyl metabolite , has a longer Tmax ( 0 . 5 to 12 hours ) and elimination half - life ( 15 to 23 hours ) .
Absorption and Bioavailability Lacosamide oral solution is completely absorbed after oral administration .
The oral bioavailability of lacosamide tablets is approximately 100 % .
Food does not affect the rate and extent of absorption .
After intravenous administration , Cmax is reached at the end of infusion .
The 30 - and 60 - minute intravenous infusions are bioequivalent to the oral tablet .
For the 15 - minute intravenous infusion , bioequivalence was met for AUC ( 0 - tz ) but not for Cmax .
The point estimate of Cmax was 20 % higher than Cmax for oral tablet and the 90 % CI for Cmax exceeded the upper boundary of the bioequivalence range .
In a trial comparing the oral tablet with an oral solution containing 10 mg / mL lacosamide , bioequivalence between both formulations was shown .
A single loading dose of 200 mg approximates steady - state concentrations comparable to the 100 mg twice daily oral administration .
Distribution The volume of distribution is approximately 0 . 6 L / kg and thus close to the volume of total body water .
Lacosamide oral solution is less than 15 % bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism and Elimination Lacosamide oral solution is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and biotransformation .
After oral administration of 100 mg [ 14 C ] - lacosamide approximately 95 % of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0 . 5 % in the feces .
The major compounds excreted were unchanged lacosamide ( approximately 40 % of the dose ) , its O - desmethyl metabolite ( approximately 30 % ) , and a structurally unknown polar fraction ( ~ 20 % ) .
The plasma exposure of the major human metabolite , O desmethyl - lacosamide , is approximately 10 % of that of lacosamide .
This metabolite has no known pharmacological activity .
The CYP isoforms mainly responsible for the formation of the major metabolite ( O - desmethyl ) are CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
The elimination half - life of the unchanged drug is approximately 13 hours and is not altered by different doses , multiple dosing or intravenous administration .
There is no enantiomeric interconversion of lacosamide .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment Lacosamide and its major metabolite are eliminated from the systemic circulation primarily by renal excretion .
The AUC of lacosamide oral solution was increased approximately 25 % in mildly ( CLCR50 to 80 mL / min ) and moderately ( CLCR 30 to 50 mL / min ) and 60 % in severely ( CLCR ≤ 30 mL / min ) renally impaired patients compared to subjects with normal renal function ( CLCR > 80 mL / min ) , whereas Cmax was unaffected .
Lacosamide oral solution is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis .
Following a 4 - hour hemodialysis treatment , AUC of lacosamide oral solution is reduced by approximately 50 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Lacosamide undergoes metabolism .
Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) showed higher plasma concentrations of lacosamide ( approximately 50 to 60 % higher AUC compared to healthy subjects ) .
The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide have not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients ( 4 to less than 17 Years of Age ) The pediatric pharmacokinetic profile of Lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in two open - label in 79 pediatric patients with epilepsy aged 4 years to less than 17 years who received oral solution or oral tablet formulations .
A weight based dosing regimen is necessary to achieve lacosamide exposures in pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age similar to those observed in adults treated at effective doses of lacosamide [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
For patients weighing 11 kg , 28 . 9 kg ( the mean population body weight ) , and 70 kg , the typical plasma half - life ( t1 / 2 ) is 7 . 4 hours , 10 . 6 hours , and 14 . 8 hours , respectively .
Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after 3 days of twice daily repeated administration .
The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide in pediatric patients are similar when used as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial - onset seizures .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Geriatric Patients In the elderly ( > 65 years ) , dose and body - weight normalized AUC and Cmax is about 20 % increased compared to young subjects ( 18 to 64 years ) .
This may be related to body weight and decreased renal function in elderly subjects .
Gender Lacosamide oral solution clinical trials indicate that gender does not have a clinically relevant influence on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution .
Race There are no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution between Asian , Black , and Caucasian subjects .
CYP2C19 Polymorphism There are no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution between CYP2C19 poor metabolizers and extensive metabolizers .
Results from a trial in poor metabolizers ( PM ) ( N = 4 ) and extensive metabolizers ( EM ) ( N = 8 ) of cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 2C19 showed that lacosamide plasma concentrations were similar in PMs and EMs , but plasma concentrations and the amount excreted into urine of the O - desmethyl metabolite were about 70 % reduced in PMs compared to EMs .
Drug Interactions In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions In vitro metabolism studies indicate that lacosamide does not induce the enzyme activity of drug metabolizing cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 , 2C19 and 3A4 .
Lacosamide did not inhibit CYP 1A1 , 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 / 5 at plasma concentrations observed in clinical studies .
In vitro data suggest that lacosamide has the potential to inhibit CYP2C19 at therapeutic concentrations .
However , an in vivo study with omeprazole did not show an inhibitory effect on omeprazole pharmacokinetics .
Lacosamide was not a substrate or inhibitor for P - glycoprotein .
Lacosamide is a substrate of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 may have increased exposure to lacosamide .
Since < 15 % of lacosamide is bound to plasma proteins , a clinically relevant interaction with other drugs through competition for protein binding sites is unlikely .
In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions • Drug interaction studies with AEDs o Effect of Lacosamide oral solution on concomitant AEDs Lacosamide oral solution 400 mg / day had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of 600 mg / day valproic acid and 400 mg / day carbamazepine in healthy subjects .
The placebo - controlled clinical studies in patients with partial - onset seizures showed that steady - state plasma concentrations of levetiracetam , carbamazepine , carbamazepine epoxide , lamotrigine , topiramate , oxcarbazepine monohydroxy derivative ( MHD ) , phenytoin , valproic acid , phenobarbital , gabapentin , clonazepam , and zonisamide were not affected by concomitant intake of lacosamide oral solution at any dose .
o Effect of concomitant AEDs on Lacosamide oral solution Drug - drug interaction studies in healthy subjects showed that 600 mg / day valproic acid had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of 400 mg / day lacosamide oral solution .
Likewise , 400 mg / day carbamazepine had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution in a healthy subject study .
Population pharmacokinetics results in patients with partial - onset seizures showed small reductions ( 15 % to 20 % lower ) in lacosamide plasma concentrations when lacosamide oral solution was coadministered with carbamazepine , phenobarbital or phenytoin .
• Drug - drug interaction studies with other drugs o Digoxin There was no effect of lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin ( 0 . 5 mg once daily ) in a study in healthy subjects .
o Metformin There were no clinically relevant changes in metformin levels following coadministration of lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) .
Metformin ( 500 mg three times a day ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) .
o Omeprazole Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and inhibitor .
There was no effect of lacosamide oral solution ( 600 mg / day ) on the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole ( 40 mg single dose ) in healthy subjects .
The data indicated that lacosamide had little in vivo inhibitory or inducing effect on CYP2C19 .
Omeprazole at a dose of 40 mg once daily had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide oral solution ( 300 mg single dose ) .
However , plasma levels of the O - desmethyl metabolite were reduced about 60 % in the presence of omeprazole .
o Midazolam Midazolam is a 3A4 substrate .
There was no effect of lacosamide oral solution ( 200 mg single dose or repeat doses of 400 mg / day given as 200 mg BID ) on the pharmacokinetics of midazolam ( single dose , 7 . 5 mg ) , indicating no inhibitory or inducing effects on CYP3A4 .
o Oral Contraceptives There was no influence of lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive containing 0 . 03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel in healthy subjects , except that a 20 % increase in ethinylestradiol Cmax was observed .
o Warfarin Co - administration of lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) with warfarin ( 25 mg single dose ) did not result in a clinically relevant change in the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin in a study in healthy male subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no evidence of drug related carcinogenicity in mice or rats .
Mice and rats received lacosamide once daily by oral administration for 104 weeks at doses producing plasma exposures ( AUC ) up to approximately 1 and 3 times , respectively , the plasma AUC in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 400 mg / day .
Mutagenesis Lacosamide was negative in an in vitro Ames test and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Lacosamide induced a positive response in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Fertility No adverse effects on male or female fertility or reproduction were observed in rats at doses producing plasma exposures ( AUC ) up to approximately 2 times the plasma AUC in humans at the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Monotherapy in Patients with Partial - Onset Seizures The efficacy of lacosamide oral solution in monotherapy was established in a historical - control , multicenter , randomized trial that included 425 patients , age 16 to 70 years , with partial - onset seizures ( Study 1 ) .
To be included in Study 1 , patients were required to be taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic drugs .
This treatment continued into the 8 week baseline period .
To remain in the study , patients were required to have at least 2 partial - onset seizures per 28 days during the 8 week baseline period .
The baseline period was followed by a 3 week titration period , during which lacosamide oral solution was added to the ongoing antiepileptic regimen .
This was followed by a 16 - week maintenance period ( i . e . , a 6 - week withdrawal period for background antiepileptic drugs , followed by a 10 - week monotherapy period ) .
Patients were randomized 3 to 1 to receive lacosamide oral solution 400 mg / day or lacosamide oral solution 300 mg / day .
Treatment assignments were blinded .
Response to treatment was based upon a comparison of the number of patients who met exit criteria during the maintenance phase , compared to historical controls .
The historical control consisted of a pooled analysis of the control groups from 8 studies of similar design , which utilized a sub - therapeutic dose of an antiepileptic drug .
Statistical superiority to the historical control was considered to be demonstrated if the upper limit from a 2 - sided 95 % confidence interval for the percentage of patients meeting exit criteria in patients receiving lacosamide oral solution remained below the lower 95 % prediction limit of 65 % derived from the historical control data .
The exit criteria were one or more of the following : ( 1 ) doubling of average monthly seizure frequency during any 28 consecutive days , ( 2 ) doubling of highest consecutive 2 - day seizure frequency , ( 3 ) occurrence of a single generalized tonic - clonic seizure , ( 4 ) clinically significant prolongation or worsening of overall seizure duration , frequency , type or pattern considered by the investigator to require trial discontinuation , ( 5 ) status epilepticus or new onset of serial / cluster seizures .
The study population profile appeared comparable to that of the historical control population .
For the lacosamide oral solution 400 mg / day group , the estimate of the percentage of patients meeting at least 1 exit criterion was 30 % ( 95 % CI : 25 % , 36 % ) .
The upper limit of the 2 - sided 95 % CI ( 36 % ) was below the threshold of 65 % derived from the historical control data , meeting the pre - specified criteria for efficacy .
Lacosamide oral solution 300 mg / day also met the pre - specified criteria for efficacy .
14 . 2 Adjunctive Therapy in Patients with Partial - Onset Seizures The efficacy of lacosamide oral solution as adjunctive therapy in partial - onset seizures was established in three 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter trials in adult patients ( Study 2 , Study 3 , and Study 4 ) .
Enrolled patients had partial - onset seizures with or without secondary generalization , and were not adequately controlled with 1 to 3 concomitant AEDs .
During an 8 - week baseline period , patients were required to have an average of ≥ 4 partial - onset seizures per 28 days with no seizure - free period exceeding 21 days .
In these 3 trials , patients had a mean duration of epilepsy of 24 years and a median baseline seizure frequency ranging from 10 to 17 per 28 days .
84 % of patients were taking 2 to 3 concomitant AEDs with or without concurrent vagal nerve stimulation .
Study 2 compared doses of lacosamide oral solution 200 , 400 , and 600 mg / day with placebo .
Study 3 compared doses of lacosamide oral solution 400 and 600 mg / day with placebo .
Study 4 compared doses of lacosamide oral solution 200 and 400 mg / day with placebo .
In all three trials , following an 8 - week baseline phase to establish baseline seizure frequency prior to randomization , patients were randomized and titrated to the randomized dose ( a 1 - step back - titration of lacosamide oral solution 100 mg / day or placebo was allowed in the case of intolerable adverse events at the end of the titration phase ) .
During the titration phase , in all 3 adjunctive therapy trials , treatment was initiated at 100 mg / day ( 50 mg twice daily ) , and increased in weekly increments of 100 mg / day to the target dose .
The titration phase lasted 6 weeks in Study 2 and Study 3 , and 4 weeks in Study 4 .
In all three trials , the titration phase was followed by a maintenance phase that lasted 12 weeks , during which patients were to remain on a stable dose of lacosamide oral solution .
A reduction in 28 day seizure frequency ( baseline to maintenance phase ) , as compared to the placebo group , was the primary variable in all three adjunctive therapy trials .
A statistically significant effect was observed with lacosamide oral solution treatment ( Figure 1 ) at doses of 200 mg / day ( Study 4 ) , 400 mg / day ( Studies 2 , 3 , and 4 ) , and 600 mg / day ( Studies 2 and 3 ) .
Subset evaluations of lacosamide oral solution demonstrate no important differences in seizure control as a function of gender or race , although data on race was limited ( about 10 % of patients were non - Caucasian ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 presents the percentage of patients ( X - axis ) with a percent reduction in partial seizure frequency ( responder rate ) from baseline to the maintenance phase at least as great as that represented on the Y - axis .
A positive value on the Y - axis indicates an improvement from baseline ( i . e . , a decrease in seizure frequency ) , while a negative value indicates a worsening from baseline ( i . e . , an increase in seizure frequency ) .
Thus , in a display of this type , a curve for an effective treatment is shifted to the left of the curve for placebo .
The proportion of patients achieving any particular level of reduction in seizure frequency was consistently higher for the lacosamide oral solution groups , compared to the placebo group .
For example , 40 % of patients randomized to lacosamide oral solution ( 400 mg / day ) experienced a 50 % or greater reduction in seizure frequency , compared to 23 % of patients randomized to placebo .
Patients with an increase in seizure frequency > 100 % are represented on the Y - axis as equal to or greater than - 100 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Lacosamide Oral Solution , USP • 10 mg / mL is a clear , colorless to yellow or yellow - brown , strawberry flavored liquid , free from particulate matter .
It is supplied in PET bottles as follows : 200 mL bottles NDC 67877 - 732 - 95 465 mL bottles NDC 67877 - 732 - 97 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze lacosamide oral solution .
Discard any unused lacosamide oral solution remaining after six ( 6 ) months of first opening the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Suicidal Thinking and Behavior Patients , their caregivers , and families should be counseled that AEDs , including lacosamide oral solution , may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of symptoms of depression , any unusual changes in mood or behavior , or the emergence of suicidal thoughts , behavior , or thoughts about self - harm .
Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dizziness and Ataxia Patients should be counseled that lacosamide oral solution use may cause dizziness , double vision , abnormal coordination and balance , and somnolence .
Patients taking lacosamide oral solution should be advised not to drive , operate complex machinery , or engage in other hazardous activities until they have become accustomed to any such effects associated with lacosamide oral solution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities Patients should be counseled that lacosamide oral solution is associated with electrocardiographic changes that may predispose to irregular heart beat and syncope .
Cardiac arrest has been reported .
This risk is increased in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease , with heart conduction problems , or who are taking other medications that affect the heart .
Patients should be made aware of and report cardiac signs or symptoms to their healthcare provider right away .
Patients who develop syncope should lay down with raised legs and contact their health care provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multi - Organ Hypersensitivity Patients should be aware that lacosamide oral solution may cause serious hypersensitivity reactions affecting multiple organs such as the liver and kidney .
Lacosamide oral solution should be discontinued if a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected .
Patients should also be instructed to report promptly to their physicians any symptoms of liver toxicity ( e . g . , fatigue , jaundice , dark urine ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during lacosamide oral solution therapy .
Encourage patients to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) pregnancy registry if they become pregnant .
This registry is collecting information about the safety of AEDs during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : March , 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE Lacosamide ( la koe ' sa mide ) Oral Solution , USP CV Read this Medication Guide before you start taking lacosamide oral solution and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide describes important safety information about lacosamide oral solution .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about lacosamide oral solution ?
Do not stop taking lacosamide oral solution without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping lacosamide oral solution suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping seizure medicine suddenly in a patient who has epilepsy can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
Lacosamide oral solution can cause serious side effects , including : • Like other antiepileptic drugs , lacosamide oral solution may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • attempt to commit suicide • new or worse irritability • new or worse depression • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • new or worse anxiety • acting on dangerous impulses • feeling agitated or restless • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • panic attacks • other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
• Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
• Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
• Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
• Lacosamide oral solution may cause you to feel dizzy , have double vision , feel sleepy , or have problems with coordination and walking .
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how lacosamide oral solution affects you .
• Lacosamide oral solution may cause you to have an irregular heartbeat or may cause you to faint .
In rare cases , cardiac arrest has been reported .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you : • have a fast , slow , or pounding heartbeat or feel your heart skip a beat • feel lightheaded • have shortness of breath • fainted or if you feel like you are going to faint • have chest pain If you have fainted or feel like you are going to faint you should lay down with your legs raised .
4 .
Lacosamide oral solution is a federally controlled substance ( CV ) because it can be abused or lead to drug dependence .
Keep your lacosamide oral solution in a safe place , to protect it from theft .
Never give your lacosamide oral solution to anyone else , because it may harm them .
Selling or giving away this medicine is against the law .
What is Lacosamide oral solution ?
Lacosamide oral solution is a prescription medicine used : • to treat partial - onset seizures in people 4 years of age and older .
It is not known if lacosamide oral solution is safe and effective for partial - onset seizures in children under 1 month of age .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking lacosamide oral solution ?
Before you take lacosamide oral solution , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had depression , mood problems or suicidal thoughts or behavior .
• have heart problems .
• have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have abused prescription medicines , street drugs or alcohol in the past .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if lacosamide oral solution can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking lacosamide oral solution .
You and your healthcare provider will decide if you should take lacosamide oral solution while you are pregnant .
• If you become pregnant while taking lacosamide oral solution , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of antiepileptic medicine during pregnancy .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if lacosamide passes into your breast milk or if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take lacosamide oral solution .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking lacosamide oral solution with certain other medicines may cause side effects or affect how well they work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take lacosamide oral solution ?
• Take lacosamide oral solution exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much lacosamide oral solution to take and when to take it .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• Do not stop lacosamide oral solution without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping lacosamide oral solution suddenly in a patient who has epilepsy can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
• Lacosamide oral solution may be taken with or without food .
• If your healthcare provider has prescribed lacosamide oral solution , be sure to ask your pharmacist for a medicine dropper or medicine cup to help you measure the correct amount of lacosamide oral solution .
Do not use a household teaspoon .
Ask your pharmacist for instructions on how to use the measuring device the right way .
• If you take too much lacosamide oral solution , call your healthcare provider or local Poison Control Center right away .
What should I avoid while taking lacosamide oral solution ?
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how lacosamide oral solution affects you .
Lacosamide oral solution may cause you to feel dizzy , have double vision , feel sleepy , or have problems with coordination and walking .
What are the possible side effects of lacosamide oral solution ?
• See “ What is the most important information I should know about lacosamide oral solution ? ”
Lacosamide oral solution may cause other serious side effects including : • A serious allergic reaction that may affect your skin or other parts of your body such as your liver or blood cells .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • a skin rash , hives • swelling of the legs • fever or swollen glands that do not go away • yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes • shortness of breath • dark urine • tiredness ( fatigue ) The most common side effects of lacosamide oral solution include : • double vision • dizziness • headache • · nausea • sleepiness These are not all of the possible side effects of lacosamide oral solution .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store lacosamide oral solution ?
• Store at lacosamide oral solution at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Do not freeze lacosamide oral solution .
• Throw away any unused lacosamide oral solution 6 months after you first open the bottle .
Keep lacosamide oral solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of lacosamide oral solution .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use lacosamide oral solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give lacosamide oral solution to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about lacosamide oral solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about lacosamide oral solution that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in lacosamide oral solution ?
Active ingredient : lacosamide , USP Oral solution inactive ingredients : acesulfame potassium , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , methyl paraben , noncrystallizing sorbitol solution , polyethylene glycol , sodium chloride , strawberry flavor ( propylene glycol , artificial flavors , acetic acid ) , masking flavor ( propylene glycol , water , acetic acid , artificial flavors , ammoniated glycyrrhizin , aspartame acesulfame ) .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s VIMPAT ® ( lacosamide ) oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 For more information , call 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : March , 2022 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67877 - 732 - 95 ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Each patient is required to received the accompanying Medication Guide .
Rx Only 200 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 67877 - 732 - 97 ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Each patient is required to received the accompanying Medication Guide .
Rx Only 465 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
