DESCRIPTION ISOPTO CETAMIDE ® ( sulfacetamide sodium ophthalmic solution USP ) 15 % and CETAMIDE ™ ( sulfacetamide sodium ophthalmic ointment , USP ) 10 % are sterile topical antibacterial agents for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical name : N - Sulfanilylacetamide monosodium salt monohydrate .
Each mL of solution contains : Active : Sulfacetamide sodium 15 % ( 150 mg / mL ) .
Preservative : Methylparaben 0 . 05 % , Propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
Vehicle : 0 . 5 % Hydroxyporpyl Methylcellulose 2910 ( viscosity type , 4000 cps ) .
Inactive : Sodium Thiosulfate 0 . 3 % , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate and / or Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( to adjust pH ) , Purified Water .
pH range between 7 . 0 and 7 . 8 DM - 02 Each gram of ointment contains : Active : Sulfacetamide Sodium 10 % ( 100 mg ) .
Preservatives : Methylparaben 0 . 05 % , Propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
Inactive : White Petrolatum , Anhydrous Liquid Lanolin , Mineral Oil .
DM - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology The sulfonamides are bacteriostatic agents and the spectrum of activity is similar for all .
Sulfonamides inhibit bacterial synthesis of dihydrofolic acid by preventing the condensation of the pteridine with aminobenzoic acid through competitive inhibition of the enzyme dihydropteroate synthetase .
Resistant strains have altered dihydropteroate synthetase with reduced affinity for sulfonamides or produce increased quantities of aminobenzoic acid .
Topically applied sulfonamides are considered active against susceptible strains of the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus ( viridans group ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species .
Topically applied sulfonamides do not provide adequate coverage against Neisseria species , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
A significant percentage of Staphylococcal isolates are completely resistant to sulfa drugs .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Solution For the treatment of conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections due to susceptible microorganisms and as an adjunctive in systemic sulfonamide therapy of trachoma : Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus ( viridans group ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species .
Ointment For the treatment of conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections due to susceptible microorganisms .
Topically applied sulfonamides do not provide adequate coverage against Neisseria species , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
A significant percentage of staphylococcal isolates are completely resistant to sulfa drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any ingredient of the preparation .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL EYE USE ONLY – NOT FOR INJECTION .
FATALITIES HAVE OCCURRED , ALTHOUGH RARELY , DUE TO SEVERE REACTIONS TO SULFONAMIDES INCLUDING STEVENS - JOHNSON SYNDROME , TOXIC EPIDERMAL NECROLYSIS , FULMINANT HEPATIC NECROSIS , AGRANULOCYTOSIS , APLASTIC ANEMIA AND OTHER BLOOD DYSCRASIAS .
Sensitizations may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
Sensitivity reactions have been reported in individuals with no prior history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , skin rash or other serious reaction , discontinue use of this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of topical anti - bacterial agents may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to sulfonamides may also develop .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
The effectiveness of sulfonamides may be reduced by the para - aminobenzoic acid present in purulent exudates .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration , and cross - sensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , increase in purulent discharge , or aggravation of inflammation or pain , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information for Patients To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to eye , eyelid or any surface .
Drug Interactions Sulfacetamide preparations are incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the possibility of these effects with ocularly administered sulfacetamide .
Rats appear to be especially susceptible to the goitrogenic effects of sulfonamides , and long - term oral administration of sulfonamides has resulted in thyroid malignancies in these animals .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations .
Kernicterus may occur in the newborn as a result of treatment of a pregnant woman at term with orally administered sulfonamides .
This product should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered sulfonamides are capable of producing kernicterus in infants of lactating women .
Because of the potential for the development of kernicterus in neonates , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of two months have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported reactions are local irritation , stinging and burning .
Less commonly reported reactions include non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival hyperemia , secondary infections and allergic reactions .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections : Solution : Instill one or two drops into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every two to three hours initially .
Dosages may be tapered by increasing the time interval between doses as the condition responds .
The usual duration of treatment is seven to ten days .
Ointment : Apply a small amount ( approximately one - half inch ribbon ) into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every three to four hours and at bedtime .
Dosages may be tapered by increasing the time interval between doses as the condition responds .
The ointment may be used as adjunct to the solution .
The usual duration of treatment is seven to ten days .
How to apply CETAMIDE ™ Ointment : • Tilt your head back .
• Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a “ V ” pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
• Place a small amount ( about ½ inch ) of CETAMIDE ™ Ointment in the “ V ” pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
• Look downward before closing your eye .
For Trachoma : Solution : Instill two drops into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every two hours .
Topical administration must be accompanied by systemic administration .
HOW SUPPLIED Solution in 5 mL and 15 mL plastic DROP - TAINER ® Dispensers .
Ointment in 3 . 5 g ophthalmic tubes : 5 mL solution - NDC 0998 - 0522 - 05 15 mL solution - NDC 0998 - 0522 - 15 3 . 5 g ointment - NDC 0065 - 0526 - 35 STORAGE Solution – Store at 8 ° - 24 ° C ( 46 ° - 75 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Do not use if solution is discolored ( dark brown ) .
Sulfonamide solutions , on long standing , will darken in color and should be discarded .
Ointment – Store at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
CAUTION : Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
341035 Rev : January 1995 Alcon ® OPHTHALMIC ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA Printed in USA
