DESCRIPTION Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0 . 4 % is a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) for ophthalmic use .
Structural and Molecular Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : ( ± ) - 5 - Benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol ( 1 : 1 ) Contains : Active : ketorolac tromethamine 0 . 4 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 006 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride ; edetate disodium 0 . 015 % ; octoxynol 40 ; purified water ; and hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is supplied as a sterile isotonic aqueous 0 . 4 % solution , with a pH of approximately 7 . 4 .
Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is a racemic mixture of R - ( + ) and S - ( - ) - ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine may exist in three crystal forms .
All forms are equally soluble in water .
The pKa of ketorolac is 3 . 5 .
This white to off - white crystalline substance discolors on prolonged exposure to light .
The osmolality of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is approximately 290 mOsml / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug which , when administered systemically , has demonstrated analgesic , anti - inflammatory , and anti - pyretic activity .
The mechanism of its action is thought to be due to its ability to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis .
Ketorolac tromethamine given systemically does not cause pupil constriction .
Pharmacokinetics One drop ( 0 . 05 mL ) of 0 . 5 % ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution was instilled into one eye and one drop of vehicle into the other eye TID in 26 normal subjects .
Only 5 of 26 subjects had a detectable amount of ketorolac in their plasma ( range 10 . 7 to 22 . 5 ng / mL ) at day 10 during topical ocular treatment .
When ketorolac tromethamine 10 mg is administered systemically every 6 hours , peak plasma levels at steady state are around 960 ng / mL .
Clinical Studies In two double - masked , multi - centered , parallel - group studies , 313 patients who had undergone photorefractive keratectomy received ketorolac tromethamine 0 . 4 % or its vehicle QID for up to 4 days .
Significant differences favored ketorolac tromethamine for the reduction of ocular pain and burning / stinging following photorefractive keratectomy surgery .
Results from clinical studies indicate that ketorolac tromethamine has no significant effect upon intraocular pressure .
The safety and effectiveness of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution in post - cataract surgery patients has not been established .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of ocular pain and burning / stinging following corneal refractive surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation .
WARNINGS There is the potential for cross - sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid , phenylacetic acid derivatives , and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents .
Therefore , caution should be used when treating individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
With some nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs there exists the potential for increased bleeding time due to interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
There have been reports that ocularly applied nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs may cause increased bleeding of ocular tissues ( including hyphemas ) in conjunction with ocular surgery .
PRECAUTIONS General All topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , including ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution , may slow or delay healing .
Topical corticosteroids are also known to slow or delay healing .
Concomitant use of topical NSAIDs and topical steroids may increase the potential for healing problems .
Use of topical NSAIDs may result in keratitis .
In some susceptible patients , continued use of topical NSAIDs may result in epithelial breakdown , corneal thinning , corneal erosion , corneal ulceration or corneal perforation .
These events may be sight threatening .
Patients with evidence of corneal epithelial breakdown should immediately discontinue use of topical NSAIDs and should be closely monitored for corneal health .
Postmarketing experience with topical NSAIDs suggests that patients with complicated ocular surgeries , corneal denervation , corneal epithelial defects , diabetes mellitus , ocular surface diseases ( e . g . , dry eye syndrome ) , rheumatoid arthritis , or repeat ocular surgeries within a short period of time may be at increased risk for corneal adverse events which may become sight threatening .
Topical NSAIDs should be used with caution in these patients .
Postmarketing experience with topical NSAIDs also suggests that use more than 24 hours prior to surgery or use beyond 14 days post - surgery may increase patient risk for the occurrence and severity of corneal adverse events .
It is recommended that ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution be used with caution in patients with known bleeding tendencies or who are receiving other medications , which may prolong bleeding time .
Information for Patients Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ketorolac tromethamine was neither carcinogenic in rats given up to 5 mg / kg / day orally for 24 months ( 156 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals ) nor in mice given 2 mg / kg / day orally for 18 months ( 62 . 5 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in vitro in the Ames assay or in forward mutation assays .
Similarly , it did not result in an in vitro increase in unscheduled DNA synthesis or an in vivo increase in chromosome breakage in mice .
However , ketorolac tromethamine did result in an increased incidence in chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Ketorolac tromethamine did not impair fertility when administered orally to male and female rats at doses up to 280 and 499 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , respectively , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Ketorolac tromethamine , administered during organogenesis , was not teratogenic in rabbits or rats at oral doses up to 112 times and 312 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , respectively , on a mg / kg basis assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals .
When administered to rats after Day 17 of gestation at oral doses up to 46 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals , ketorolac tromethamine resulted in dystocia and increased pup mortality .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Because of the known effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of the ductus arteriosus ) , the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ketorolac tromethamine in pediatric patients below the age of 3 have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions for ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution occurring in approximately 1 to 5 % of the overall study population were conjunctival hyperemia , corneal infiltrates , headache , ocular edema and ocular pain .
The most frequent adverse events reported with the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions have been transient stinging and burning on instillation .
These events were reported by 20 % - 40 % of patients participating in these other clinical trials .
Other adverse events occurring approximately 1 % - 10 % of the time during treatment with ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions included allergic reactions , corneal edema , iritis , ocular inflammation , ocular irritation , ocular pain , superficial keratitis , and superficial ocular infections .
Clinical Practice The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to topical ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions , or a combination of these factors , include corneal erosion , corneal perforation , corneal thinning and epithelial breakdown ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is one drop four times a day in the operated eye as needed for pain and burning / stinging for up to 4 days following corneal refractive surgery .
Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution has been safely administered in conjunction with other ophthalmic medications such as antibiotics , beta blockers , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , cycloplegics , and mydriatics .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0 . 4 % is supplied sterile in an opaque white LDPE plastic bottle with a white dropper with a gray high impact polystyrene ( HIPS ) cap as follows : 5 mL in 10 mL bottle - NDC 54868 - 6416 - 0 Storage : Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Revised : 10 / 2013 © 2013 Allergan , Inc . , Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . ® marks owned by Allergan , Inc .
Patented .
See : www . allergan . com / products / patent _ notices Made in the U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 71654PY10 Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pacific Pharma ® NDC 60758 - 773 - 05 KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE ophthalmic solution , 0 . 4 % 5 mL sterile Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 6416 - 0 KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
