IMPORTANT DRUG INFORMATION Subject : Temporary Importation of Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion ( dexrazoxane hydrochloride ) to address drug shortage issues Dear Healthcare Professional , Important Reconstitution Note for Medication Error Prevention : Prescribers and pharmacists must be alert to the differences between the FDA - approved dexrazoxane products and Cardioxane ’ s presentation and reconstitution and dilution instructions in order to prevent medication errors .
Appropriate quality assurance measures should be enacted to reduce the risk of medication errors .
See comparison table below for more information .
Cardioxane has a different vial capacity than FDA - approved dexrazoxane products , and , therefore must be reconstituted with a different volume of Water for Injection .
Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion is provided in a vial with a capacity of 25 mL .
To reconstitute , add 25 mL Water for Injection ( USP ) to the vial .
The concentration of the resulting reconstitution solution will be 20 mg / mL – this solution should not be stored and must be further diluted before administration to the patient .
Further dilute the reconstitution solution with Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP to a final concentration between 1 . 3 and 3 mg / mL .
The diluted infusion solution should be used immediately or stored for a maximum of 4 hours under refrigeration .
Due to the current critical shortage of Dexrazoxane for Injection , 250 mg / vial and 500 mg / vial in the United States ( U . S . ) market , Clinigen Healthcare Ltd is coordinating with the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to increase the availability of Dexrazoxane for Injection 500 mg / vial .
Clinigen Healthcare Ltd has initiated temporary importation into the U . S . of Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion ( dexrazoxane hydrochloride ) , a non - FDA approved product , to help alleviate the shortage .
The Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion was manufactured by Cenexi – Laboratoires Thissen S . A . in its FDA - inspected facility in Braine l ’ Alleud , Belgium and is licensed for sale in the United Kingdom .
Clinigen Healthcare Ltd ’ s distributor for Cardioxane in the US is Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
At this time , no other entities except Clinigen Healthcare Ltd and its distributor Cumberland Pharmaceutical Inc . are authorized by the FDA to import or distribute Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion in the U . S .
This does not constitute an FDA approval for the Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion being distributed in the U . S . Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion contains the same active substance , dexrazoxane hydrochloride , as FDA - approved Zinecard .
It is available as 500 mg / vial ( no 250 mg / vial presentation is available ) .
It is a clinically acceptable substitute for the out of stock U . S . Dexrazoxane for Injection products .
Cardioxane is available only by prescription in the U . S .
In the U . S . , the labelling for Dexrazoxane Injection ( Zinecard ) includes the following indication : ZINECARD is indicated for reducing the incidence and severity of cardiomyopathy associated with doxorubicin administration in women with metastatic breast cancer who have received a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg / m2 and who will continue to receive doxorubicin therapy to maintain tumor control .
Do not use with the initiation of doxorubicin therapy .
Comparison of Cardioxane and FDA - approved Zinecard It is important to note the following differences between the U . S . FDA approved Dexrazoxane for Injection products and Cardioxane ( a comparison of the carton and vial labels is appended to this letter for reference ) : Dexrazoxane for Injection ( U . S . ) Cardioxane ( UK ) Action to Take Packaged with complete prescribing Information .
Packaged with a Patient Information Leaflet , with information for Healthcare Professionals – this does not provide complete information for use .
Please refer to the package insert for the U . S . FDA approved Zinecard ( dexrazoxane ) for Injection for full prescribing information .
Presentation 250 mg / vial and 500 mg / vial .
Presentation 500 mg / vial only .
Prescribers and pharmacists must be alert to this difference in presentation in order to prevent medication errors .
Zinecard 500 mg / vial is reconstituted with 50 mL of Sterile Water for Injection USP .
Reconstituted solution has a concentration of 10 mg / mL .
Cardioxane 500 mg / vial is reconstituted with 25 mL of Water for Injection .
Reconstituted solution has a concentration of 20 mg / mL .
The Cardioxane reconstituted solution will have a concentration of 20 mg / mL , this must be considered when further diluting to give an infusion solution .
Prescribers and pharmacists must be alert to this difference in order to prevent medication errors .
Following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , Zinecard is stable for 30 minutes at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 3 hours from the time of reconstitution when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
No storage recommendations are given for the reconstituted solution – it should be immediately diluted for infusion .
Use the reconstituted solution immediately .
The reconstituted solution is diluted further with Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP to a concentration of 1 . 3 mg / mL to 3 mg / mL in intravenous infusion bags for intravenous infusion .
The reconstituted solution is diluted further with Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection or Sodium Lactate 0 . 16 M to a concentration between 4 mg / mL to 10 mg / mL .
Recall that the reconstitution solution will have a concentration of 20 mg / mL .
Follow the instructions given within the Zinecard Prescribing Information – dilute with Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection USP to 1 . 3 mg / mL to 3 mg / mL in intravenous infusion bags for intravenous infusion .
The diluted infusion solutions are stable for one hour at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 4 hours when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Reconstituted and subsequently diluted product should be used immediately or within 4 hours if stored between 2 ° C and 8 ° C .
The diluted infusion solution should be used immediately or stored for a maximum of 4 hours under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Please note that no barcode appears on the carton for Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion , therefore it will not be appropriately recognized by scanning systems used in the United States .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
To order Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion , please contact the distributor Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 615 - 255 - 0068 , or by email at jherman @ cumberlandpharma . com .
To report adverse events or other safety - related information , including medication errors to Clinigen Healthcare , you may complete the available form at http : / / www . clinigengroup . com / node / 99 and send via email to patientsafety @ clinigengroup . com or fax to 1 - 800 - 861 - 9362 .
Adverse events and medication errors , or quality problems experienced with the use of this product may also be reported to the FDA ’ s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting Program either online , or regular mail , or by fax : • Complete and submit the report Online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail or Fax : Download form www . fda . gov / MedWatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form , then complete and return to the address on the pre - addressed form , or submit by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 .
We urge you to contact our Medical Information Department at toll - free 888 - 758 - 7954 during office hours ( Monday to Friday , 8 am to 5 : 30 pm Eastern Time ) , or at 913 - 339 - 8424 out of office hours , or email clinigenUS @ medinfodept . com , if you have any questions about the information contained in this letter or the safe and effective use of Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion .
Comparison of Carton and Vial Labels ( Zinecard and Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion ) Item Zinecard ( US ) Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion Carton Label Principal Panel NDC 0013 - 8727 - 89 Single - Dose Vial Zinecard ® ( dexrazoxane ) for injection 500 mg * Sterile , Pyrogen - Free Lyophilizate For Intravenous Use Only Pfizer Injectables Rx only Side Panel 1 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Upon reconstitution with 50 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the pH of the resultant solution is 1 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
Reconstituted solutions are stable for 30 minutes at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 3 hours from the time of reconstitution when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Further dilution with Lactated Ringer ’ s , USP , is necessary prior to administration via IV drop .
DO NOT ADMINISTER RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION DIRECTLY .
Discard unused solutions .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
* Each vial contains dexrazoxane hydrochloride equivalent to 500 mg dexrazoxane .
The pH is adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid , NF .
Side Panel 2 Barcode MADE IN ITALY Distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co Division of Pfizer Inc NY , NY 10017 Principal Panel Cardioxane ® 500 mg Powder for solution for infusion Dexrazoxane Intravenous use Do not store above 25 ° C . Store in the original container in order to protect from light .
Side Panel 1 Use as directed by a health professional .
Refer to instructions for safe handling of product before administration .
Reconstitute and dilute the contents of each vial in accordance with the instructions in the package insert before administering by intravenous infusion to the patient .
Cardioxane is for single use only .
Reconstituted and subsequently diluted product should be used immediately or within 4 hours if stored between 2 ° C and 8 ° C . Any unused medicinal product should be discarded in accordance with local requirements .
Read the package leaflet before use .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
Side Panel 2 Pack of 1 vial 1 vial contains 500 mg dexrazoxane as its hydrochloride salt POM Marketing Authorisation number : PL 31644 / 0002 Marketing Authorisation holder : Clinigen Healthcare Ltd . , Pitcairn House , Crown Square , First Avenue , Burton - on - Trent , Staffordshire , DE14 2 WW , United Kingdom .
Carton Label Image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Item Zinecard ( US ) Cardioxane 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion Vial Label Principal Panel NDC 0013 - 8727 - 89 Single - Dose Vial Zinecard ® ( dexrazoxane ) for injection 500 mg * Sterile , Pyrogen - Free Lyophilizate For Intravenous Use Only Rx only Side Panel Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Upon reconstitution with 50 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the pH of the resultant solution is 1 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
Reconstituted solutions are stable for 30 minutes at room temperature or if storage is necessary , up to 3 hours from the time of reconstitution when stored under refrigeration , 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Further dilution with Lactated Ringer ’ s , USP , is necessary prior to administration via IV drop .
DO NOT ADMINISTER RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION DIRECTLY .
Discard unused solutions .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
* Each vial contains dexrazoxane hydrochloride equivalent to 500 mg dexrazoxane .
The pH is adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid , NF .
Distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co Division of Pfizer Inc NY , NY 10017 MADE IN ITALY LOT EXP Principal Panel Cardioxane ® 500 mg Powder for Solution for Infusion Dexrazoxane ( as its hydrochloride salt ) Intravenous use for short infusion .
Do not store above 25 ° C . Store in the original container .
Protect from direct sunlight .
Marketing Authorisation number : PL 31644 / 0002 Keep out of the reach and sight of children .
POM Side Panel Clinigen Healthcare Ltd .
Pitcairn House , First Avenue , Burton - on - Trent , Staffordshire DE14 2 WW , UK .
Vial Label Image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
