DESCRIPTION Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablethas the antihypertensive effect of metoprolol tartrate , a selective beta1 - adrenoreceptor blocking agent , and the antihypertensive and diuretic actions of hydrochlorothiazide .
It is available as tablets for oral administration .
The 50 / 25 tablets contain 50 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP ; the 100 / 25 tablets contain 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP ; and the 100 / 50 tablets contain 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Metoprolol tartrate USP is ( ± ) - 1 - ( Isopropylamino ) - 3 - [ p - ( 2 - methoxyethyl ) phenoxy ] - 2 - propanol L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) salt , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoprolol tartrate USP is a white , crystalline powder .
It is very soluble in water ; freely soluble in methylene chloride , in chloroform , and in alcohol ; slightly soluble in acetone ; and insoluble in ether .
Its molecular weight is 684 . 82 .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; slightly soluble in water ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Its molecular weight is 297 . 73 .
Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , povidone , lactose , pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Metoprolol Metoprolol is a beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
In vitro and in vivo animal studies have shown that it has a preferential effect on beta1 adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in cardiac muscle .
This preferential effect is not absolute , however , and at higher doses , metoprolol also inhibits beta2 adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed the beta - blocking activity of metoprolol in man , as shown by ( 1 ) reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest and upon exercise , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic blood pressure upon exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
Relative beta1 selectivity has been confirmed by the following : ( 1 ) In normal subjects , metoprolol is unable to reverse the beta2 - mediated vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
This contrasts with the effect of nonselective ( beta1 plus beta2 ) beta blockers , which completely reverse the vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
( 2 ) In asthmatic patients , metoprolol reduces FEV1 and FVC significantly less than a nonselective beta blocker , propranolol at equivalent beta1 - receptor blocking doses .
Metoprolol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and only weak membrane - stabilizing activity .
Metoprolol crosses the blood - brain barrier and has been reported in the CSF in a concentration 78 % of the simultaneous plasma concentration .
Animal and human experiments indicate that metoprolol slows the sinus rate and decreases AV nodal conduction .
In controlled clinical studies , metoprolol has been shown to be an effective antihypertensive agent when used alone or as concomitant therapy with thiazide - type diuretics , at dosages of 100 to 450 mg daily .
In controlled , comparative , clinical studies , metoprolol has been shown to be as effective an antihypertensive agent as propranolol , methyldopa , and thiazide - type diuretics , and to be equally effective in supine and standing positions .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents has not been elucidated .
However , several possible mechanisms have been proposed : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output ; ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery ; and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
Pharmacokinetics In man , absorption of metoprolol is rapid and complete .
Plasma levels following oral administration , however , approximate 50 % of levels following intravenous administration , indicating about 50 % first - pass metabolism .
Plasma levels achieved are highly variable after oral administration .
Only a small fraction of the drug ( about 12 % ) is bound to human serum albumin .
Metoprolol is a racemic mixture of R - and S - enantiomers .
Less than 5 % of an oral dose of metoprolol is recovered unchanged in the urine ; the rest is excreted by the kidneys as metabolites that appear to have no clinical significance .
The systemic availability and half - life of metoprolol in patients with renal failure do not differ to a clinically significant degree from those in normal subjects .
Consequently , no reduction in dosage is usually needed in patients with chronic renal failure .
In elderly subjects with clinically normal renal function , there are no significant differences in metoprolol pharmacokinetics compared to young subjects .
Metoprolol is extensively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system in the liver .
The oxidative metabolism of metoprolol is under genetic control with a major contribution of the polymorphic cytochrome P450 isoform 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) .
There are marked ethnic differences in the prevalence of the poor metabolizers ( PM ) phenotype .
Approximately 7 % of Caucasians and less than 1 % Asian are poor metabolizers .
Poor CYP2D6 metabolizers exhibit several - fold higher plasma concentrations of metoprololthan extensive metabolizers with normal CYP2D6 activity .
The elimination half - life of metoprolol is about 7 . 5 hours in poor metabolizers and 2 . 8 hours in extensive metabolizers .
However , the CYP2D6 dependent metabolism of metoprololseems to have little or no effect on safety or tolerability of the drug .
None of the metabolites of metoprololcontribute significantly to its beta - blocking effect .
Pharmacodynamics Significant beta - blocking effect ( as measured by reduction of exercise heart rate ) occurs within 1 hour after oral administration , and its duration is dose - related .
For example , a 50 % reduction of the maximum registered effect after single oral doses of 20 , 50 , and 100 mg occurred at 3 . 3 , 5 , and 6 . 4 hours , respectively , in normal subjects .
After repeated oral dosages of 100 mg twice daily , a significant reduction in exercise systolic blood pressure was evident at 12 hours .
There is a linear relationship between the log of plasma levels and reduction of exercise heart rate .
However , antihypertensive activity does not appear to be related to plasma levels .
Because of variable plasma levels attained with a given dose and lack of a consistent relationship of antihypertensive activity to dose , selection of proper dosage requires individual titration .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage , all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic potency .
Thiazides increase excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Natriuresis causes a secondary loss of potassium .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Thiazides do not affect normal blood pressure .
Pharmacokinetics Hydrochlorothiazide is rapidly absorbed , as indicated by peak plasma concentrations 1 to 2 . 5 hours after oral administration .
Plasma levels of the drug are proportional to dose ; the concentration in whole blood is 1 . 6 to 1 . 8 times higher than in plasma .
Thiazides are eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
After oral administration of 25 - to 100 - mg doses , 72 to 97 % of the dose is excreted in the urine , indicating dose - independent absorption .
Hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated from plasma in a biphasic fashion with a terminal half - life of 10 to 17 hours .
Plasma protein binding is 67 . 9 % .
Plasma clearance is 15 . 9 to 30 L / hr ; volume of distribution is 3 . 6 to 7 . 8 L / kg .
Gastrointestinal absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is enhanced when administered with food .
Absorption is decreased in patients with congestive heart failure , and the pharmacokinetics are considerably different in these patients .
Pharmacodynamics The onset of action of thiazides occurs in 2 hours and the peak effect at about 4 hours .
The action persists for approximately 6 to 12 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the management of hypertension This fixed - combination drug is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension .
If the fixed combination represents the dose titrated to the individual patient ’ s needs , therapy with the fixed combination may be more convenient than with the separate components .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol Metoprolol tartrate tablets are contraindicated in sinus bradycardia , heart block greater than first degree , cardiogenic shock , and overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity to metoprolol tartrate and related derivatives , or to any of the excipients ; hypersensitivity to other beta blockers ( cross sensitivity between beta blockers can occur ) .
Sick - sinus syndrome .
Severe peripheral arterial circulatory disorders .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to this or other sulfonamide - derived drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Metoprolol Cardiac Failure : Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure , and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
In hypertensive patients who have congestive heart failure controlled by digitalis and diuretics , metoprolol should be administered cautiously .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure : Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be fully digitalized and / or given a diuretic .
The response should be observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic therapy , metoprolol should be withdrawn .
Ischemic Heart Disease : Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents , exacerbations of angina pectoris and in some cases , myocardial infarction have been reported .
Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris , when discontinuing therapy , metoprolol should not be withdrawn abruptly , and patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician ’ s advice ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
Bronchospastic Diseases : PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASES SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA BLOCKERS , including metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide .
Because of its relative beta1 selectivity , however , metoprolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 selectivity is not absolute , a beta2 - stimulating agent should be administered concomitantly , and the lowest possible dose of metoprolol should be used .
In these circumstances it would be prudent initially to administer metoprolol in smaller doses three times daily , instead of larger doses two times daily , to avoid the higher plasma levels associated with the longer dosing interval ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Major Surgery : Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : Metoprolol should be used with caution in diabetic patients if a beta - blocking agent is required .
Beta blockers , including metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide , may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
Selective beta blockers do not potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and , unlike nonselective beta blockers , do not delay recovery of blood glucose to normal levels .
Pheochromocytoma : If metoprolol tartrate is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma , it should be given in combination with an alpha blocker , and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated .
Administration of beta blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure due to the attenuation of beta - mediated vasodilatation in skeletal muscle .
Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) or hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte imbalance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs .
Sensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
PRECAUTIONS General Metoprolol : Metoprolol should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Hydrochlorothiazide : All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance , namely hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia ( see Laboratory Tests and Drug / Drug Interactions ) .
Warning signs are dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbance , such as nausea or vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially in cases of brisk diuresis or severe cirrhosis .
Interference with adequate oral intake of electrolytes will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by the use of potassium supplements or foods with high potassium content .
Any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment , except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In cases of actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Latent diabetes may become manifest during thiazide administration ( see Drug / Drug Interactions ) .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy should be considered .
Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides .
Pathological changes in the parathyroid gland with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
The common complications of hyperparathyroidism , such as renal lithiasis , bone resorption , and peptic ulceration , have not been seen .
Thiazide diuretics have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised to take metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets regularly and continuously , as directed , with or immediately following meals .
If a dose should be missed , the patient should take only the next scheduled dose ( without doubling it ) .
Patients should not discontinue metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets without consulting the physician .
Patients should be advised ( 1 ) to avoid operating automobiles and machinery or engaging in other tasks requiring alertness until the patient ’ s response to therapy with metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide has been determined ; ( 2 ) to contact the physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs ; ( 3 ) to inform the physician or dentist before any type of surgery that he or she is taking metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Laboratory Tests Metoprolol : Clinical laboratory findings may include elevated levels of serum transaminase , alkaline phosphatase , and lactate dehydrogenase .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Initial and periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Drug / Drug Interactions Metoprolol : Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Patients treated with metoprolol plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction : While taking beta blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
General Anesthetics Some inhalation anesthetics may enhance the cardiodepressant effect of beta blockers ( see WARNINGS ; Metoprolol ; Major Surgery ) .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors Potent inhibitors of the CYP2D6 enzyme may increase the plasma concentration of metoprolol .
Strong inhibition of CYP2D6 would mimic the pharmacokinetics of CYP2D6 poor metabolizer .
Caution should therefore be exercised when administering potent CYP2D6 inhibitors with metoprolol .
Known clinically significant potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 are antidepressants such as fluoxetine , paroxetine or bupropion , antipsychotics such as thioridazine , antiarrhythmics such as quinidine or propafenone , antiretrovirals such as ritonavir , antihistamines such as diphenhydramine , antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine or quinidine , antifungals such as terbinafine and medications for stomach ulcers such as cimetidine .
Clonidine If a patient is treated with clonidine and metoprolol concurrently , and clonidine treatment is to be discontinued , metoprolol should be stopped several days before clonidine is withdrawn .
Rebound hypertension that can follow withdrawal of clonidine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent beta blocker treatment .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hypokalemia can sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Hypokalemia may develop during concomitant use of steroids or ACTH .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine , but not enough to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use .
Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
Lithium renal clearance is reduced by thiazides , increasing the risk of lithium toxicity .
There have been rare reports in the literature of hemolytic anemia occurring with the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide and methyldopa .
Concurrent administration of some nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents may reduce the diuretic , natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazides may decrease serum levels of protein - bound iodine without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Thiazides should be discontinued before tests for parathyroid function are made .
( see General , Hydrochlorothiazide , Calcium excretion ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide : Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets produced no evidence of impaired fertility in male or female rats administered gavaged doses up to 200 / 50 mg / kg ( 100 / 50 times the maximum recommended daily human dose ) prior to mating and throughout gestation and rearing of young .
Metoprolol : Long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
In a 2 - year study in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg / kg per day , there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type .
The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia .
In a 21 - month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg / kg per day , benign lung tumors ( small adenomas ) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals .
There was no increase in malignant or total ( benign plus malignant ) lung tumors , or in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors .
This 21 - month study was repeated in CD - 1 mice , and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor .
All mutagenicity tests performed ( a dominant lethal study in mice , chromosome studies in somatic cells , a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test , and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei ) were negative .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol was observed in a study performed in rats at doses up to 55 . 5 times the maximum daily human dose of 450 mg .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames assay ) and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 ⛤ g / mL , and in the Aspergillus nidulans nondisjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg / day , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide : No evidence of adverse effects on pregnancy or the fetus were observed in rats when dams were administered gavaged doses up to 200 / 50 mg / kg of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 100 / 50 times the maximum recommended daily human dose ) during the period of organogenesis .
Increased postimplantation loss and decreased postnatal survival were observed with these doses when administered later in pregnancy ( gestation days 15 to 21 ) .
In rabbits , increased fetal loss was observed with oral doses of 25 / 6 . 25 mg / kg of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 12 / 6 times the maximum recommended daily human dose ) , but not with lower doses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in pregnant women .
Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Metoprolol : Metoprolol has been shown to increase postimplantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at doses up to 55 . 5 times the maximum daily human dose of 450 mg .
Distribution studies in mice confirm exposure of the fetus when metoprolol is administered to the pregnant animal .
These studies have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood , and there is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Nursing Mothers Metoprolol is excreted in breast milk in a very small quantity .
An infant consuming 1 liter of breast milk daily would receive a dose of metoprolol of less than 1 mg .
Thiazides are also excreted in breast milk .
If the use of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is deemed essential , the patient should stop nursing .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Hydrochlorothiazide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see WARNINGS ) .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide The following adverse reactions were reported in controlled clinical studies of the combination of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide .
Body as a Whole : Fatigue or lethargy and flu syndrome have each been reported in about 10 in 100 patients .
Nervous System : Dizziness or vertigo , drowsiness or somnolence , and headache have each occurred in about 10 in 100 patients .
Nightmare has occurred in 1 in 100 patients .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia has occurred in about 6 in 100 patients .
Decreased exercise tolerance and dyspnea have each occurred in about 1 of 100 patients .
Digestive : Diarrhea , digestive disorder , dry mouth , nausea or vomiting , and constipation have each occurred in about 1 in 100 patients .
Metabolic and Nutritional : Hypokalemia has occurred in fewer than 10 in 100 patients .
Edema , gout , and anorexia have each occurred in 1 in 100 patients .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , tinnitus , and earache have each been reported in 1 in 100 patients .
Skin : Sweating and purpura have each occurred in 1 in 100 patients .
Urogenital : Impotence has occurred in 1 in 100 patients .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle pain has occurred in 1 in 100 patients .
Metoprolol Most adverse effects have been mild and transient .
Central Nervous System : Tiredness and dizziness have occurred in about 10 of 100 patients .
Depression has been reported in about 5 of 100 patients .
Mental confusion and short - term memory loss have been reported .
Headache , nightmares , and insomnia have also been reported , but a drug relationship is not clear .
Cardiovascular : Shortness of breath and bradycardia have occurred in approximately 3 of 100 patients .
Cold extremities ; arterial insufficiency , usually of the Raynaud type ; palpitations ; and congestive heart failure have been reported .
Gangrene in patients with pre - existing severe peripheral circulatory disorders has also been reported very rarely ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Respiratory : Wheezing ( bronchospasm ) has been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Rhinitis has also been reported .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea has occurred in about 5 of 100 patients .
Nausea , gastric pain , constipation , flatulence , and heartburn have been reported in 1 of 100 , or fewer , patients .
Vomiting was a common occurrence .
Postmarketing experience reveals very rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice and non - specific hepatic dysfunction .
Isolated cases of transaminase , alkaline phosphatase , and lactic dehydrogenase elevations have also been reported .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Pruritus has occurred in fewer than 1 of 100 patients .
Rash has been reported .
Very rarely , photosensitivity and worsening of psoriasis has been reported .
Miscellaneous : Peyronie ’ s disease has been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 , 000 patients .
Alopecia has been reported .
There have been very rare reports of weight gain , arthritis , and retroperitoneal fibrosis ( relationship to metoprolol has not been definitely established ) .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta blocker practolol has not been reported with metoprolol .
Potential Adverse Reactions A variety of adverse reactions not listed above have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse reactions to metoprolol .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; visual disturbances ; hallucinations ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of metoprolol : confusional state , an increase in blood triglycerides and a decrease in High Density Lipoprotein ( HDL ) .
Because these reports are from a population of uncertain size and are subject to confounding factors , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
Hydrochlorothiazide The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Consequently the reactions are categorized by organ systems and are listed in decreasing order of severity and not frequency .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic ) , sialadenitis , vomiting , diarrhea , cramping , nausea , gastric irritation , constipation , anorexia .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension ( may be potentiated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics ) .
Neurologic : Vertigo , dizziness , transient blurred vision , headache , paresthesia , xanthopsia , weakness , restlessness .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Necrotizing angiitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , purpura , urticaria , rash , photosensitivity .
OVERDOSAGE Acute Toxicity Several cases of overdosage with metoprolol have been reported , some leading to death .
No deaths have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide .
Oral LD50 ’ s ( mg / kg ) : mice , 1158 ( metoprolol ) ; rats , 3090 ( metoprolol ) , 2750 ( hydrochlorothiazide ) .
Signs and Symptoms Metoprolol : Potential signs and symptoms associated with overdosage with metoprolol are bradycardia , hypotension , bronchospasm , and cardiac failure .
Hydrochlorothiazide : The most prominent feature of poisoning is acute loss of fluid and electrolytes .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , hypotension , shock .
Neuromuscular : Weakness , confusion , dizziness , cramps of the calf muscles , paresthesia , fatigue , impairment of consciousness .
Digestive : Nausea , vomiting , thirst .
Renal : Polyuria , oliguria , or anuria ( due to hemoconcentration ) .
Laboratory Findings : Hypokalemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremia , alkalosis ; increased BUN ( especially in patients with renal insufficiency ) .
Combined Poisoning : Signs and symptoms may be aggravated or modified by concomitant intake of antihypertensive medication , barbiturates , curare , digitalis ( hypokalemia ) , corticosteroids , narcotics , or alcohol .
Treatment There is no specific antidote .
On the basis of the pharmacologic actions of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide , the following general measures should be employed : Elimination of the Drug : Inducement of vomiting , gastric lavage , and activated charcoal .
Bradycardia : Atropine should be administered .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , isoproterenol should be administered cautiously .
Hypotension : The patient ’ s legs should be elevated and lost fluid and electrolytes ( potassium , sodium ) should be replaced .
A vasopressor should be administered , e . g . , levarterenol or dopamine .
Bronchospasm : A beta2 - stimulating agent and / or a theophylline derivative should be administered .
Cardiac Failure : A digitalis glycoside and diuretic should be administered .
In shock resulting from inadequate cardiac contractility , administration of dobutamine , isoproterenol , or glucagon may be considered .
Surveillance : Fluid and electrolyte balance ( especially serum potassium ) and renal function should be monitored until conditions become normal .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be determined by individual titration ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide is usually given at a dosage of 12 . 5 to 50 mg per day .
The usual initial dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 mg daily in single or divided doses .
Dosage may be increased gradually until optimum blood pressure control is achieved .
The effective dosage range is 100 to 450 mg per day .
While once - daily dosing is effective and can maintain a reduction in blood pressure throughout the day , lower doses ( especially 100 mg ) may not maintain a full effect at the end of the 24 - hour period , and larger or more frequent daily doses may be required .
This can be evaluated by measuring blood pressure near the end of the dosing interval to determine whether satisfactory control is being maintained throughout the day .
Beta1 selectivity diminishes as dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets is increased .
The following dosage schedule may be used to administer from 100 to 200 mg of metoprolol tartrate per day and from 25 to 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide per day : Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Dosage Tablets of 50 / 25 2 tablets per day in single or divided doses Tablets of 100 / 25 1 to 2 tablets per day in single or divided doses Tablets of 100 / 50 1 tablet per day in single or divided doses Dosing regimens that exceed 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide per day are not recommended .
When necessary , another antihypertensive agent may be added gradually , beginning with 50 % of the usual recommended starting dose to avoid an excessive fall in blood pressure .
HOW SUPPLIED Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP are available containing 50 mg / 25 mg , 100 mg / 25 mg or 100 mg / 50 mg of metoprolol tartrate , USP and hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
50 mg / 25 mg tablets are white to off - white colored , round shaped , biconvex , bevel edged scored uncoated tablet debossed with “ L ” on one side of score line and “ 230 ” on another side of score line and plain on other side .
NDC 46708 - 115 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 115 - 31 bottles of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 115 - 91 bottles of 1000 tablets 100 mg / 25 mg tablets are white to off - white colored , oval shaped , biconvex , bevel edged scored uncoated tablet debossed with “ L ” on one side of score line and “ 232 ” on another side of score line and plain on other side .
NDC 46708 - 116 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 116 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 116 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets 100 mg / 50 mg tablets are white to off - white colored , capsule shaped , biconvex , bevel edged scored uncoated tablet debossed with “ L ” on one side of score line and “ 231 ” on another side of score line and plain on other side .
NDC 46708 - 117 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 117 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 117 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container ( USP ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Village Panelav , P . O . Tajpura , Near Baska , Taluka - Halol , Panchmahal , Gujarat , India .
Issued : 02 / 2016 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 50 mg / 25 mg Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 50 mg / 25 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains metoprolol tartrate USP 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP 25 mg 46708 - 115 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 100 mg / 25 mg Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 100 mg / 25 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains metoprolol tartrate USP 100 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP 25 mg 46708 - 116 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 100 mg / 50 mg Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 100 mg / 50 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains metoprolol tartrate USP 100 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP 50 mg 46708 - 117 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
