Rx Only USE IN PREGNANCYWhen used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , quinapril tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION Quinapril tablet is the hydrochloride salt of quinapril , the ethyl ester of a non - sulfhydryl , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor , quinaprilat .
Quinapril hydrochloride is chemically described as [ 3 S - [ 2 [ R * ( R * ) ] , 3 R * ] ] - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenylpropyl ] amino ] - 1 - oxopropyl ] - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - 3 - isoquinolinecarboxylic acid , monohydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C25H30N2O5 • HCl and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Quinapril hydrochloride is a white to off - white amorphous powder that is freely soluble in aqueous solvents .
Quinapril tablets contain 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg of quinapril for oral administration .
Each tablet also contains crospovidone , lecithin , magnesium carbonate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl alcohol , povidone , talc , titanium dioxide and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionQuinapril is deesterified to the principal metabolite , quinaprilat , which is an inhibitor of ACE activity in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor , angiotensin II .
The effect of quinapril in hypertension appears to result primarily from the inhibition of circulating and tissue ACE activity , thereby reducing angiotensin II formation .
Quinapril inhibits the elevation in blood pressure caused by intravenously administered angiotensin I , but has no effect on the pressor response to angiotensin II , norepinephrine or epinephrine .
Angiotensin II also stimulates the secretion of aldosterone from the adrenal cortex , thereby facilitating renal sodium and fluid reabsorption .
Reduced aldosterone secretion by quinapril may result in a small increase in serum potassium .
In controlled hypertension trials , treatment with quinapril tablets alone resulted in mean increases in potassium of 0 . 07 mmol / L ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity ( PRA ) .
While the principal mechanism of antihypertensive effect is thought to be through the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , quinapril exerts antihypertensive actions even in patients with low renin hypertension .
Quinapril was an effective antihypertensive in all races studied , although it was somewhat less effective in blacks ( usually a predominantly low renin group ) than in nonblacks .
ACE is identical to kininase II , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin , a potent peptide vasodilator ; whether increased levels of bradykinin play a role in the therapeutic effect of quinapril remains to be elucidated .
Pharmacokinetics and MetabolismFollowing oral administration , peak plasma quinapril concentrations are observed within one hour .
Based on recovery of quinapril and its metabolites in urine , the extent of absorption is at least 60 % .
The rate and extent of quinapril absorption are diminished moderately ( approximately 25 to 30 % ) when quinapril is administered during a high - fat meal .
Following absorption , quinapril is deesterified to its major active metabolite , quinaprilat ( about 38 % of oral dose ) , and to other minor inactive metabolites .
Following multiple oral dosing of quinapril , there is an effective accumulation half - life of quinaprilat of approximately 3 hours , and peak plasma quinaprilat concentrations are observed approximately 2 hours post - dose .
Quinaprilat is eliminated primarily by renal excretion , up to 96 % of an IV dose , and has an elimination half - life in plasma of approximately 2 hours and a prolonged terminal phase with a half - life of 25 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of quinapril and quinaprilat are linear over a single - dose range of 5 to 80 mg doses and 40 to 160 mg in multiple daily doses .
Approximately 97 % of either quinapril or quinaprilat circulating in plasma is bound to proteins .
In patients with renal insufficiency , the elimination half - life of quinaprilat increases as creatinine clearance decreases .
There is a linear correlation between plasma quinaprilat clearance and creatinine clearance .
In patients with end - stage renal disease , chronic hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis has little effect on the elimination of quinapril and quinaprilat .
Elimination of quinaprilat may be reduced in elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years ) and in those with heart failure ; this reduction is attributable to decrease in renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Quinaprilat concentrations are reduced in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis due to impaired deesterification of quinapril .
Studies in rats indicate that quinapril and its metabolites do not cross the blood - brain barrier .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical EffectsHypertensionSingle doses of 20 mg of quinapril provide over 80 % inhibition of plasma ACE for 24 hours .
Inhibition of the pressor response to angiotensin I is shorter - lived , with a 20 mg dose giving 75 % inhibition for about 4 hours , 50 % inhibition for about 8 hours , and 20 % inhibition at 24 hours .
With chronic dosing , however , there is substantial inhibition of angiotensin II levels at 24 hours by doses of 20 to 80 mg .
Administration of 10 to 80 mg of quinapril to patients with mild to severe hypertension results in a reduction of sitting and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with minimal effect on heart rate .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS ) .
Antihypertensive activity commences within 1 hour with peak effects usually achieved by 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
During chronic therapy , most of the blood pressure lowering effect of a given dose is obtained in 1 to 2 weeks .
In multiple - dose studies , 10 to 80 mg per day in single or divided doses lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout the dosing interval , with a trough effect of about 5 to11 / 3 to 7 mm Hg .
The trough effect represents about 50 % of the peak effect .
While the dose - response relationship is relatively flat , doses of 40 to 80 mg were somewhat more effective at trough than 10 to 20 mg , and twice daily dosing tended to give a somewhat lower trough blood pressure than once daily dosing with the same total dose .
The antihypertensive effect of quinapril tablets continues during long - term therapy , with no evidence of loss of effectiveness .
Hemodynamic assessments in patients with hypertension indicate that blood pressure reduction produced by quinapril is accompanied by a reduction in total peripheral resistance and renal vascular resistance with little or no change in heart rate , cardiac index , renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , or filtration fraction .
Use of quinapril tablets with a thiazide diuretic gives a blood - pressure lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone .
In patients with hypertension , quinapril tablets 10 to 40 mg was similar in effectiveness to captopril , enalapril , propranolol , and thiazide diuretics .
Therapeutic effects appear to be the same for elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) and younger adult patients given the same daily dosages , with no increase in adverse events in elderly patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HypertensionQuinapril tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
In using quinapril , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that quinapril does not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS ) Angioedema in black patientsBlack patients receiving ACE inhibitor monotherapy have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non - blacks .
It should also be noted that in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non - blacks .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Quinapril tablels are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related ReactionsPresumably because angiotensin - converting inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including QUINAPRIL TABLETS ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck AngioedemaAngioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors and has been seen in 0 . 1 % of patients receiving quinapril .
In two similarly sized U . S . postmarketing trials that , combined , enrolled over 3 , 000 black patients and over 19 , 000 non - blacks , angioedema was reported in 0 . 30 % and 0 . 55 % of blacks ( in study 1 and 2 respectively ) and 0 . 39 % and 0 . 17 % of non - blacks .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with quinapril should be discontinued immediately , the patient treated in accordance with accepted medical care , and carefully observed until the swelling disappears .
In instances where swelling is confined to the face and lips , the condition generally resolves without treatment ; antihistamines may be useful in relieving symptoms .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx likely to cause airway obstruction , emergency therapy including , but not limited to , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal AngioedemaIntestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Patients with a history of angioedemaPatients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitizationTwo patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposureAnaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hepatic FailureRarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
HypotensionExcessive hypotension is rare in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with quinapril alone .
Patients with heart failure given quinapril commonly have some reduction in blood pressure , but discontinuation of therapy because of continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed .
Caution should be observed when initiating therapy in patients with heart failure .
In controlled studies , syncope was observed in 0 . 4 % of patients ( N = 3203 ) ; this incidence was similar to that observed for captopril ( 1 % ) and enalapril ( 0 . 8 % ) .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension , sometimes associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death , include patients with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , recent intensive diuresis or increase in diuretic dose , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
It may be advisable to eliminate the diuretic ( except in patients with heart failure ) , reduce the diuretic dose or cautiously increase salt intake ( except in patients with heart failure ) before initiating therapy with quinapril in patients at risk for excessive hypotension who are able to tolerate such adjustments .
In patients at risk of excessive hypotension , therapy with quinapril should be started under close medical supervision .
Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of quinapril and / or diuretic is increased .
Similar considerations may apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or a cerebrovascular accident .
If excessive hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses of quinapril , which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
If symptomatic hypotension develops , a dose reduction or discontinuation of quinapril or concomitant diuretic may be necessary .
Neutropenia / AgranulocytosisAnother ACE inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression rarely in patients with uncomplicated hypertension , but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease , such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Agranulocytosis did occur during quinapril treatment in one patient with a history of neutropenia during previous captopril therapy .
Available data from clinical trials of quinapril is insufficient to show that , in patients without prior reactions to other ACE inhibitors , quinapril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
As with other ACE inhibitors , periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and / or renal disease should be considered .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and MortalityACE inhibitors can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature .
When pregnancy is detected , ACE inhibitors should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of ACE inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to the ACE inhibitor exposure .
These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE inhibitor exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to ACE inhibitors only during the first trimester should be so informed .
Nonetheless , when patients become pregnant , physicians should make every effort to discontinue the use of quinapril as soon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to ACE inhibitors will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses , and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intraamniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , quinapril should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a non - stress test ( NST ) , or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to ACE inhibitors should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Removal of quinapril , which crosses the placenta , from the neonatal circulation is not significantly accelerated by these means .
No teratogenic effects of quinapril were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits .
On a mg / kg basis , the doses used were up to 180 times ( in rats ) and one time ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralImpaired renal functionAs a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including quinapril , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and rarely acute renal failure and / or death .
In clinical studies in hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine have been observed in some patients following ACE inhibitor therapy .
These increases were almost always reversible upon discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some patients with hypertension or heart failure with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when quinapril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of any diuretic and / or quinapril may be required .
Evaluation of patients should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hyperkalemia and potassium - sparing diureticsIn clinical trials , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium ≥ 5 . 8 mmol / L ) occurred in approximately 2 % of patients receiving quinapril .
In most cases , elevated serum potassium levels were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
Less than 0 . 1 % of patients discontinued therapy due to hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes , which should be used cautiously , if at all , with quinapril ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
CoughPresumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent non - productive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / anesthesiaIn patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , quinapril will block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for PatientsPregnancyFemale patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of second - and third - trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors , and they should also be told that these consequences do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE - inhibitor exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
These patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
AngioedemaAngioedema , including laryngeal edema can occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , especially following the first dose .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to stop taking the drug until they have consulted with their physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
Symptomatic hypotensionPatients should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first few days of quinapril therapy , and that it should be reported to a physician .
If actual syncope occurs , patients should be told to not take the drug until they have consulted with their physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Patients planning to undergo any surgery and / or anesthesia should be told to inform their physician that they are taking an ACE inhibitor .
HyperkalemiaPatients should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
NeutropeniaPatients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( eg , sore throat , fever ) which could be a sign of neutropenia .
NOTE : As with many other drugs , certain advice to patients being treated with quinapril is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Drug InteractionsConcomitant diuretic therapyAs with other ACE inhibitors , patients on diuretics , especially those on recently instituted diuretic therapy , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with quinapril .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with quinapril may be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or cautiously increasing salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with quinapril .
If it is not possible to discontinue the diuretic , the starting dose of quinapril should be reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Agents increasing serum potassiumQuinapril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics and increase serum potassium when used alone .
If concomitant therapy of quinapril with potassium - sparing diuretics ( eg , spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes is indicated , they should be used with caution along with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Tetracycline and other drugs that interact with magnesiumSimultaneous administration of tetracycline with quinapril reduced the absorption of tetracycline by approximately 28 % to 37 % , possibly due to the high magnesium content in quinapril tablets .
This interaction should be considered if coprescribing quinapril and tetracycline or other drugs that interact with magnesium .
LithiumIncreased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving concomitant lithium and ACE inhibitor therapy .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , it may increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Other agentsDrug interaction studies of quinapril with other agents showed : • Multiple dose therapy with propranolol or cimetidine has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of single doses of quinapril .
• The anticoagulant effect of a single dose of warfarin ( measured by prothrombin time ) was not significantly changed by quinapril coadministration twice - daily .
• Quinapril tablets treatment did not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin .
• No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed when single doses of quinapril and hydrochlorothiazide were administered concomitantly .
• Co - administration of multiple 10 mg doses of atorvastatin with 80 mg of quinapril resulted in no significant change in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityQuinapril was not carcinogenic in mice or rats when given in doses up to 75 or 100 mg / kg / day ( 50 to 60 times the maximum human daily dose , respectively , on an mg / kg basis and 3 . 8 to 10 times the maximum human daily dose when based on an mg / m2 basis ) for 104 weeks .
Female rats given the highest dose level had an increased incidence of mesenteric lymph node hemangiomas and skin / subcutaneous lipomas .
Neither quinapril nor quinaprilat were mutagenic in the Ames bacterial assay with or without metabolic activation .
Quinapril was also negative in the following genetic toxicology studies : in vitro mammalian cell point mutation , sister chromatid exchange in cultured mammalian cells , micronucleus test with mice , in vitro chromosome aberration with V79 cultured lung cells , and in an in vivo cytogenetic study with rat bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on fertility or reproduction in rats at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 60 and 10 times the maximum daily human dose when based on mg / kg and mg / m2 , respectively ) .
PregnancyPregnancy Categories C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) : See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Nursing MothersBecause quinapril is secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseThe safety and effectiveness of quinapril in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of quinapril did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Elderly patients exhibited increased area under the plasma concentration time curve and peak levels for quinaprilat compared to values observed in younger patients ; this appeared to relate to decreased renal function rather than to age itself .
ADVERSE REACTIONS HypertensionQuinapril has been evaluated for safety in 4960 subjects and patients .
Of these , 3203 patients , including 655 elderly patients , participated in controlled clinical trials .
Quinapril has been evaluated for long - term safety in over 1400 patients treated for 1 year or more .
Adverse experiences were usually mild and transient .
In placebo - controlled trials , discontinuation of therapy because of adverse events was required in 4 . 7 % of patients with hypertension .
Adverse experiences probably or possibly related to therapy or of unknown relationship to therapy occurring in 1 % or more of the 1563 patients in placebo - controlled hypertension trials who were treated with quinapril are shown below .
Adverse Events in Placebo - Controlled Trials Quinapril tables ( N = 1563 ) Incidence ( Discontinuance ) Placebo ( N = 579 ) Incidence ( Discontinuance ) Headache 5 . 6 ( 0 . 7 ) 10 . 9 ( 0 . 7 ) Dizziness 3 . 9 ( 0 . 8 ) 2 . 6 ( 0 . 2 ) Fatigue 2 . 6 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 Coughing 2 ( 0 . 5 ) 0 Nausea and / or Vomiting 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 . 9 ( 0 . 2 ) Abdominal Pain 1 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 7 Clinical adverse experiences probably , possibly , or definitely related , or of uncertain relationship to therapy occurring in 0 . 5 % to 1 % ( except as noted ) of the patients with CHF or hypertension treated with quinapril tablets ( with or without concomitant diuretic ) in controlled or uncontrolled trials ( N = 4847 ) and less frequent , clinically significant events seen in clinical trials or post - marketing experience ( the rarer events are in italics ) include ( listed by body system ) : General : back pain , malaise , viral infections , anaphylactoid reaction Cardiovascular : palpitation , vasodilation , tachycardia , heart failure , hyperkalemia , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident , hypertensive crisis , angina pectoris , orthostatic hypotension , cardiac rhythm disturbances , cardiogenic shock Hematology : hemolytic anemia Gastrointestinal : flatulence , dry mouth or throat , constipation , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , pancreatitis , abnormal liver function tests , dyspepsia Nervous / Psychiatric : somnolence , vertigo , syncope , nervousness , depression , insomnia , paresthesia Integumentary : alopecia , increased sweating , pemphigus , pruritus , exfoliative dermatitis , photosensitivity reaction , dermatopolymyositis Urogenital : urinary tract infection , impotence , acute renal failure , worsening renal failure Respiratory : eosinophilic pneumonitis Other : amblyopia , edema , arthralgia , pharyngitis , agranulocytosis , hepatitis , thrombocytopenia Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and MortalitySee WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
AngioedemaAngioedema has been reported in patients receiving quinapril ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema may be fatal .
If angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and / or larynx occurs , treatment with quinapril should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
( See WARNINGS . )
Clinical Laboratory Test FindingsHematology ( see WARNINGS ) Hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) Creatinine and Blood Urea NitrogenIncreases ( > 1 . 25 times the upper limit of normal ) in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen were observed in 2 % and 2 % , respectively , of all patients treated with quinapril alone .
Increases are more likely to occur in patients receiving concomitant diuretic therapy than in those on quinapril alone .
These increases often remit on continued therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Doses of 1440 to 4280 mg / kg of quinapril cause significant lethality in mice and rats .
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with quinapril .
The most likely clinical manifestation would be symptoms attributable to severe hypotension .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of quinapril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of quinapril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( eg , maneuvers to change pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of quinapril and its metabolites .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis have little effect on the elimination of quinapril and quinaprilat .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of quinapril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of quinapril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat quinapril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION HypertensionMonotherapyThe recommended initial dosage of quinapril tablets in patients not on diuretics is 10 or 20 mg once daily .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response measured at peak ( 2 to 6 hours after dosing ) and trough ( predosing ) .
Generally , dosage adjustments should be made at intervals of at least 2 weeks .
Most patients have required dosages of 20 , 40 , or 80 mg / day , given as a single dose or in two equally divided doses .
In some patients treated once daily , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval .
In such patients an increase in dosage or twice daily administration may be warranted .
In general , doses of 40 to 80 mg and divided doses give a somewhat greater effect at the end of the dosing interval .
Concomitant DiureticsIf blood pressure is not adequately controlled with quinapril tablets monotherapy , a diuretic may be added .
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of quinapril tablets .
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued 2 to 3 days prior to beginning therapy with quinapril tablets ( see WARNINGS ) .
Then , if blood pressure is not controlled with quinapril tablets alone , diuretic therapy should be resumed .
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 5 mg quinapril tablets should be used with careful medical supervision for several hours and until blood pressure has stabilized .
The dosage should subsequently be titrated ( as described above ) to the optimal response ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and Drug Interactions ) .
Renal ImpairmentKinetic data indicate that the apparent elimination half - life of quinaprilat increases as creatinine clearance decreases .
Recommended starting doses , based on clinical and pharmacokinetic data from patients with renal impairment , are as follows : Creatinine Clearance Maximum Recommended Initial Dose Greater Than 60 mL / min 10 mg 30 to 60 mL / min 5 mg 10 to 30 mL / min 2 . 5 mg Less Than 10 mL / min Insufficient data for dosage recommendation Patients should subsequently have their dosage titrated ( as described above ) to the optimal response .
Following the initial dose of quinapril tablets , the patient should be observed under medical supervision for at least two hours for the presence of hypotension or orthostasis and , if present , until blood pressure stabilizes .
The appearance of hypotension , orthostasis , or azotemia early in dose titration should not preclude further careful dose titration .
Consideration should be given to reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics .
Elderly ( greater than or equal to 65 years ) The recommended initial dosage of quinapril tablets in elderly patients is 10 mg given once daily followed by titration ( as described above ) to the optimal response .
DOSE ADJUSTMENTS IN PATIENTS WITH HEART FAILURE AND RENAL IMPAIRMENT OR HYPONATREMIAPharmacokinetic data indicate that quinapril elimination is dependent on level of renal function .
In patients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose of quinapril tablets is 5 mg in patients with a creatinine clearance above 30 mL / min and 2 . 5 mg in patients with a creatinine clearance of 10 to 30 mL / min .
There is insufficient data for dosage recommendation in patients with a creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min ( see WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
If the initial dose is well tolerated , quinapril tablets may be administered the following day as a twice daily regimen .
In the absence of excessive hypotension or significant deterioration of renal function , the dose may be increased at weekly intervals based on clinical and hemodynamic response .
HOW SUPPLIED Quinapril tablets , USP are supplied as follows : 5 mg tablets : White to off - white , round , convex faced , film coated tablets , debossed with “ 18 ’’ on one side and break line on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5279 - 0 10 mg tablets : White to off - white , round , convex faced , film coated tablets , debossed with “ RX549 ’’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5245 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5245 - 1 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5245 - 2 20 mg tablets : White to off - white , round , convex faced , film coated tablets , debossed with “ RX550 ’’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5241 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5241 - 1 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5241 - 2 40 mg tablets : White to off - white , round , convex faced , film coated tablets , debossed with “ RX551 ’’ on one side and plain on the other .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5246 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5246 - 2 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5246 - 1 Dispense in well - closed containers as defined in the USP .
Protect from light .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 to 25º C ( 68º to 77º F ) with excursions permitted between 15 to 30º C ( 59 to 86º F ) .
( See USP ) .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ohm Laboratories , Inc .
North Brunswick , NJ 08902 USA June 2007 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Quinapril tablets , USP 5 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 20 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 40 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
