Rx Only Each tablet contains : Methenamine 81 . 0 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 32 . 4 mg Methylene Blue 10 . 8 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , Stearic acid .
METHENAMINE .
[ 100 - 97 - 0 ] 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 – Tetraazatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . - 13 , 7 ] decane ; hexamethylenetetramine ; HMT ; HMTA ; hexamine ; 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraazaadamantane hexamethylenemine ; Uritone ; Urotropin .
C6H12N4 ; mol wt 140 . 19 ; C 51 . 40 % , H 8 . 63 % , N 39 . 96 % .
Methenamine ( hexamethylenetetramine ) exists as colorless , lustrous crystals or white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohol and chloroform .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC .
[ 7558 - 80 - 7 ] Phosphoric acid sodium salt ( 1 : 1 ) ; Sodium biphosphate ; sodium dihydrogen phosphate ; acid sodium phosphate ; monosodium orthophosphate ; primary sodium phosphate ; H2NaO4P ; mol wt 119 . 98 , H 1 . 68 % , Na 19 . 16 % , O 53 . 34 % , P 25 . 82 % .
Monohydrate , white , odorless slightly deliquesce crystals or granules .
At 100 ° C loses all its water ; when ignited it converts to metaphosphate .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
The aqueous solution is acid .
pH of 0 . 1 molar aqueous solution at 25 ° C ; 4 . 5 .
PHENYL SALICYLATE .
[ 118 - 55 - 8 ] 2 - Hydroxybenzoic acid phenyl ester ; Salol .
C13H10O3 ; mol wt 214 . 22 , C 72 . 89 % , H 4 . 71 % , O 22 . 41 % .
Made by the action of phosphorous oxy - chloride on a mixture of phenol and salicylic acid .
Phenyl Salicylate exists as white crystals with a melting point of 41 ° - 43 ° C .
It is very slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol .
METHYLENE BLUE .
[ 61 - 73 - 4 ] 3 , 7 - BIS ( dimethylamino ) phenothiazine - 5 - ium chloride ; C . I . Basic Blue 9 ; methylthioninium chloride tetramethylthionine chloride ; 3 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) phenazathionium chloride .
C16H18ClN3S ; mol wt 319 . 85 , C 60 . 08 % , H 5 . 67 % , Cl 11 . 08 % , N 13 . 14 % , S 10 . 03 % .
Methylene Blue ( Methylthionine chloride ) exists as dark green crystals .
It is soluble in water and in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in alcohol .
HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE .
[ 620 - 31 - 1 ] [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - α - ( Hydroxymethyl ) - benzeneacetic acid 8 - mehtyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 1αH , 5αH - tropan - 3α - ol ( - ) - tropate ( ester ) sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 3α - tropanyl S - ( - ) - tropate ; I - tropic acid ester with tropine ; I - tropine tropate .
C34H48N2O10S .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate is an alkaloid of belladonna .
Exists as a white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Affected by light , it is slightly soluble in water freely soluble in alcohol ; sparingly soluble in ether .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY METHENAMINE degrades in an acidic urine environment releasing formaldehyde which provide bactericidal or bacteriostatic action .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
70 % to 90 % reaches the urine unchanged at which point it is hydrolyzed if the urine is acidic .
Within 24 hours it is almost completely ( 90 % ) excreted ; of this amount at pH 5 , approximately 20 % is formaldehyde .
Protein binding – some formaldehyde is bound to substances in the urine and surrounding tissues .
Methenamine is freely distributed to body tissue and fluids but is not clinically significant as it does not hydrolyze at pH greater than 6 . 8 .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC an acidifier , helps to maintain an acid pH in the urine necessary for the degradation of methenamine .
PHENYL SALICYLATE releases salicylate , a mild analgesic for pain .
METHYLENE BLUE possesses weak antiseptic properties .
It is well absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly reduced to leukomethylene blue which is stabilized in some combination form in the urine .
75 % is excreted unchanged .
HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE is a parasympatholytic drug which relaxes smooth muscles and this produces an antispasmodic effect .
It is well absorbed form the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly distributed throughout the body tissues .
Most is excreted in the urine within 12 hours , 13 % to 50 % being unchanged .
Protein binding for hyoscyamine sulfate is moderate and biotransformation is hepatic .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE VILEVEV MB is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding .
Indicated for the relief of local symptoms , such as inflammation , hypermotility , and pain , which accompany lower urinary tract infections and antispasmodic .
Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS VILEVEV MB is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Risk - benefit should be considered when the following medical problems exist : Cardiac disease ( especially cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , coronary heart disease , and mitral stenosis ) ; gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease ; glaucoma ; myasthenia gravis ; acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy ( such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) .
WARNINGS If rapid pulse , dizziness , or blurring of vision occurs , discontinue use immediately .
Patients should be advised that urine will be colored blue when taking this medication .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
PRECAUTIONS Contains Methylene Blue and should NOT be taken with serotonergic psychiatric medications .
Cross sensitivity and / or related problems Patients intolerant of other belladonna alkaloids may be intolerant of this medication also .
Delay in gastric emptying could complicate the management of gastric ulcers .
Drug Interactions Although the exact mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown , methylene blue inhibits the action of monoamine oxidase A – an enzyme responsible for breaking down serotonin in the brain .
It is believed that when methylene blue is given to patients taking serotonergic psychiatric medications , high levels of serotonin can build up in the brain , causing toxicity .
This is referred to as Serotonin Syndrome .
Signs and symptoms of Serotonin Syndrome include mental changes ( confusion , hyperactivity , memory problems ) , muscle twitching , excessive sweating , shivering or shaking , diarrhea , and trouble with coordination and / or fever .
Additional Information for Healthcare Professionals Methylene blue can interact with serotonergic psychiatric medications and cause serious CNS toxicity .
In emergency situations requiring life - threatening or urgent treatment with methylene blue ( as described above ) , the availability of alternative interventions should be considered and the benefit of methylene blue treatment should be weighed against the risk of serotonin toxicity .
If methylene blue must be administered to a patient receiving a serotonergic drug , the serotonergic drug must be immediately stopped , and the patient should be closely monitored for emergent symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks ( five weeks if fluoxetine [ Prozac ] was taken ) , or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue , whichever comes first .
In non - emergency situations when non - urgent treatment with methylene blue is contemplated and planned , the serotonergic psychiatric medication should be stopped to allow its activity in the brain to dissipate .
Most serotonergic psychiatric drugs should be stopped at least 2 weeks in advance of methylene blue treatment .
Fluoxetine ( Prozac ) , which has a longer half - life compared to similar drugs , should be stopped at least 5 weeks in advance .
Treatment with the serotonergic psychiatric medication may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue .
Serotonergic psychiatric medications should not be started in a patient receiving methylene blue .
Wait until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue before starting the antidepressant .
Educate your patients to recognize the symptoms of serotonin toxicity or CNS toxicity and advise them to contact a healthcare professional immediately if they experience any symptoms while taking serotonergic psychiatric medications or methylene blue .
As a result of hyoscyamine ' s effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying , absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medications .
Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde .
Antimuscarinics Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of Hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications .
Antacids / antidiarrheals Concurrent use may reduce absorption of Hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness .
Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde .
Doses of these medications should be spaced for 1 hour apart from doses of Hyoscyamine .
Antimyasthenics Concurrent use with Hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility , therefore , caution is recommended .
Ketoconazole and Hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH . Concurrent administration with Hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole .
Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors Concurrent use with Hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects .
Opioid ( narcotic ) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation .
Sulfonamides These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria .
Patients should be advised that the urine and / or stools may become blue to blue - green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue .
Pregnancy / Reproduction ( FDA Pregnancy Category C ) Hyoscyamine and methenamine cross the placenta .
Studies have not been done in either animals or humans .
It is not known whether Vilevev MB can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
VILEVEV MB should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Methenamine and traces of Hyoscyamine are excreted in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when VILEVEV MB is administered to a nursing mother .
Prolonged Use There have been no studies to establish the safety of prolonged use in humans .
No known long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pediatric Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effect of the belladonna alkaloids .
Geriatric Use with caution in elderly patients as they may respond to the usual doses of the belladonna alkaloids with excitement , agitation , drowsiness , or confusion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular – rapid pulse , flushing Central Nervous System – blurred vision , dizziness , drowsiness Respiratory – shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary – difficult micturition , acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal – dry mouth , nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare .
Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , including itching , rash , severe dizziness , swelling or trouble breathing .
This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue - green .
This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped .
Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Vilvet Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 705 - 4369 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 , www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Drug Abuse and Dependence A dependence on the use of VILEVEV MB has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients , abuse of VILEVEV MB is not expected .
OVERDOSAGE Emesis or gastric lavage .
Slow intravenous administration of physostigmine in doses of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in children ) repeated as needed in one to two hours to reverse severe antimuscarinic symptoms .
Administration of small doses of diazepam to control excitement and seizures .
Artificial respiration with oxygen if needed for respiratory depression .
Adequate hydration .
Symptomatic treatment as necessary .
If overdose is suspected , contact the poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or your local emergency room immediately .
VILEVEV MB DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Older Children Dosage must be individualized by physician .
Not recommended for use in children up to 6 years of age .
HOW IS VILEVEV MB SUPPLIED VILEVEV MB tablets for oral administration are supplied in child resistant bottles of 90 tablets .
VILEVEV MB tablets are light blue to blue , pentagon shaped , debossed with " VIP100 " and plain on the other side , NDC 71186 - 000 - 24 .
STORAGE Store in a cool , dry place at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from moisture and direct sunlight .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child resistant closure .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Note : Patients should be advised that urine will be colored blue when taking this medication .
Rx only .
Manufactured for : Vilvet Pharmaceuticals Inc Chester Springs , PA 19425 Rev / 2011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 Tablet Bottle Label NDC 71186 - 000 - 24 VILEVEV MB URINARY ANTISEPTIC EACH TABLET CONTAINS : Methenamine 81 . 0 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 32 . 4 mg Methylene Blue 10 . 8 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg RX ONLY Vilvet Pharmaceuticals 90 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
