Rx only Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP consists of not less than 98 % by volume of ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ) .
Dehydrated alcohol is hypobaric in relation to the cerebrospinal fluid .
It is injected proximate to nerve tissues and into spinal subarachnoid spaces to produce degeneration of nerve function ( neurolysis ) for control of chronic pain .
The product contains no bacteriostat or antimicrobial agent ( otherthan ethanol ) and no added buffer .
Dehydrated alcohol USP is a clear , colorless liquid miscible with water and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol produces injury to tissue cells by dehydration and precipitation of protoplasm .
When alcohol is injected in close proximity to nerve tissues , it produces neuritis and nerve degeneration ( neurolysis ) .
Deliberate injury to selected spinal nerves , peripheral nerves , or ganglia by injection of alcohol results in more or less enduring block of sensory , motor and autonomic function .
The injection of alcohol used for therapeutic neurolysis involves amounts too small to produce significant systemic effects of ethanol .
Ninety to 98 % of ethyl alcohol that enters the body is completely oxidized .
Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP is indicated for therapeutic neurolysis of nerves or ganglia for the relief of intractable chronic pain in such conditions as inoperable cancer and trigeminal neuralgia ( tic douloureux ) , in patients for whom neurosurgical procedures are contraindicated .
Relief of trigeminal neuralgia usually is only temporary .
Other conditions for which injection of alcohol has been reported include glossopharyngeal neuralgia angina pectoris and severe claudication due to peripheral vascular insufficiency .
Alcohol concentrations of 40 to 50 % ( prepared by appropriate dilution of dehydrated alcohol ) have been used for epidural or individual motor nerve injections to control certain manifestations of cerebral palsy and spastic paraplegia .
Similar concentrations also have been injected for celiac plexus block to relieve pain of inoperable upper abdominal cancer , and have been injected intra - and subcutaneously for relief of intractable pruritus ani .
Subarachnoid injection of dehydrated alcohol is contraindicated in patients receiving anticoagulants because of the danger of bleeding .
Alcohol is a flammable liquid and should be kept cool and away from any heat source .
Alcohol injections should be made with care to avoid unwanted tissue necrosis .
Proper positioning of the patient is essential to control localization of injections of dehydrated alcohol ( which is hypobaric ) into the subarachnoid space .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is intact .
Discard unused portion .
It is sometimes advisable to make a trial injection of procaine or other local anesthetic prior to alcohol injection as a means of confirming accurate placement of the needle , and to decrease pain experienced during the procedure .
X - ray visualization for precise placement also may be advisable .
When used for selective sensory block within the subarachnoid space , it is essential to avoid contact of the alcohol with the anterior ( motor ) roots of the spinal nerve to be treated if motor paralysis is not desired .
When peripheral nerves are injected , care should be taken that residual alcohol is not deposited along the needle track or in any other locations where tissue destruction is not wanted .
Instances have been reported in which the pain resulting from post - injection neuritis was more severe than that existing before the injection .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dehydrated alcohol .
It is also not known whether dehydrated alcohol can cause fetal harm when given to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dehydrated alcohol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
The most commonly encountered side effects are post - injection neuritis with persistent pain , hyperesthesia and paresthesia .
Subarachnoid neurolysis and lumbar sympathetic block may be followed by motor paralysis , bladder or rectal incontinence and impotence .
Severe hypotension may follow celiac ganglion injection .
Corneal anesthesia , meningitis or cranial nerve palsy may follow injection of the gasserian ganglion .
None known with this size and manner of presentation .
Excessive or faulty localization of injections may result in unwanted post - injection neuritis and / or tissue necrosis .
In such cases , efforts should be directed toward dilution of deposited alcohol when feasible , relief of pain with analgesics and surgical intervention , if indicated . Hypotension following celiac ganglion injection may be controlled with appropriate vasopressor agents .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
The dosage of Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP for therapeutic nerve or ganglion block varies from as little as 0 . 05 to 0 . 5 mL in trigeminal neuralgia to 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 mL per interspace for subarachnoid injections .
Doses larger than 1 . 5 mL are seldom required .
All injections should be made slowly and only after all steps have been taken to insure precise placement of the alcohol .
A 1 . 0 mL tuberculin syringe is desirable to facilitate accurate measurement of the dose .
Separate needles should be used for injection of successive interspaces or other sites .
Since Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP is hypobaric as compared to spinal fluid , proper positioning of the patient is essential to control localization of injections into the subarachnoid space .
When lesser concentrations of alcohol are used , larger volumes are usually injected .
A dose of 2 mL of 45 % alcohol has been used for injecting individual motor nerves , or from 1 . 5 to 4 . 0 mL for epidural injection in children with spastic cerebral palsy ; 50 mL of 50 % alcohol has been used for celiac plexus blockade .
The LD50 oral dose in rats is 13 . 7 g / kg .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP NDC 71414 - 301 - 05 1 mL Vial Packages of 5 NDC 71414 - 305 - 05 5 mL Vial Packages of 5 Storage : Store in a cool place away from any heat source .
Manufactured for : FLON LABORATORIES LLC Elkhorn , NE 68022 USA www . flonlabs . com 301 PI Rev : 06 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
