Active Ingredient : Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose : Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses • For the temporary relief of occasional minor throat : • Irritation • Pain • Sore Mouth • Sore Throat Warnings Sore Throat Warnings : Severe and persisttent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
• do not exceed recommended dose • do not use for more than 2 days .
Use only aas directed .
• use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Stop use and ask doctor or dentist if sore throat symptoms do not improve in 7 days Irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens .
Swelling , rash or fever develops .
• do not exceed recommended dose • do not use for more than 2 days .
Use only aas directed .
• use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisioning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 3 years of age and older : • Apply to the affected area ( one spray ) • Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out • Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • Children under 3 years of age , consult a doctor or dentist • Before using the first time , remove the protective neck band and dust cap from the tip .
To spray , hold bottle straight up and press on the nozzle with index finger without tiltting head .
Fully depress pump all the way down with a firm even stroke .
Wipe nizzle dry .
Other information • Store at room temperature • Temper Evident : Do not use if printed neck band is broken or missing • Check expiration date before using Inactive ingredients are : Sodium Saccharin , Glycerin , Purified water , FD & C red # 40 , Cherry Flavour .
Manufactured in USA by Purinepharma LLC 5 County Route 42 Massena , NY 13662 A MEDIBEST Brands Company Questions : www . purinepharma . com Tel : 1 - 315 - 705 - 4030 NDC : 58599 - 008 - 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
