DESCRIPTION Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , is for oral administration .
It is freed from unpleasant odor or nauseating substances by “ denarcotization ” with a petroleum distillate .
Opium tincture is a clear , reddish - brown hydroalcoholic solution .
Each 100 mL contains 1 g of anhydrous morphine ( represents the equivalent of 10 g of Powdered Opium , USP ) , alcohol , 19 % , and water .
Opium has a very characteristic odor and a very bitter taste .
The opiates are the most effective and prompt - acting nonspecific antidiarrheal agents .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The opiates act by enhancing tone in the long segments of longitudinal muscle and by inhibiting propulsive contraction of both circular and longitudinal muscles .
Clinical evidence indicates that the analgesic activity of opium preparations is due to their morphine content .
Relatively small doses that do not produce significant analgesia are effective in controlling diarrhea .
The papaverine content of the mixed alkaloids is too small to have demonstrable spasmolytic activity .
Following oral administration , morphine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
It is rapidly metabolized following oral administration , however , and plasma levels of unconjugated morphine are lower than those achieved after parenteral administration .
Like other narcotic analgesics , opium preparations are metabolized in the liver .
Morphine undergoes conjugation with glucuronic acid at the 3 - hydroxyl group .
Secondary conjugation may also occur at the 6 - hydroxyl group to form the 3 , 6 - diglucuronide .
Morphine is excreted in the urine mainly as morphine - 3 - glucuronide and smaller amounts of morphine - 3 , 6 - diglucuronide and unchanged drug .
Approximately 75 % of a dose of morphine is excreted in the urine within 48 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Opium tincture is useful for the treatment of diarrhea .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This preparation is not recommended for use in children .
It should not be used in diarrhea caused by poisoning until the toxic material is eliminated from the gastrointestinal tract .
WARNINGS Addiction can result from opium usage .
Opium preparations should be given in the smallest effective dose and as infrequently as possible to minimize the development of tolerance and physical dependence .
PRECAUTIONS General – Opium should be used with caution in the elderly , in debilitated individuals , and in patients with increased intracranial pressure , cerebral arteriosclerosis , hepatic cirrhosis or liver insufficiency , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , myxedema , emphysema , and bronchial asthma .
Drug Interactions – When preparations containing opium are administered in combination with other drugs , the cautions applicable to each ingredient should be borne in mind .
Reduced dosage is indicated in poor - risk patients , in the very young or very old patient , and in those who are receiving other central - nervous system depressants .
Usage in Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C – Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Opium Tincture USP ( Deodorized ) .
It is also not known whether Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers – Caution should be exercised when Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , is administered to a nursing woman .
Usage in Children – Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Constipation , nausea , and vomiting may occur in some patients .
Pruritus and urticaria have been observed .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance – Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , is a Schedule II drug .
See WARNINGS .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms – Symptoms of toxicity are those of morphine and alcohol , such as nausea , vomiting , miosis , cool and clammy skin , respiratory and CNS depression , bradycardia , hypotension , and skeletal muscle flaccidity .
Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may develop after opioid overdose and monitoring of heart filling pressure may be helpful .
Ethanol has been demonstrated to cause hypoglycemia in children or adults with limited glycogen stores .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment – To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Initial management of opioid overdose should emphasize establishment of a secure airway and support of ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , blood glucose , etc .
Naloxone antagonizes most effects of opioids .
Protect the airway as naloxone may induce vomiting .
Since naloxone has a shorter duration of action than opioids , repeated doses may be needed .
In patients who abuse opioids chronically , a withdrawal syndrome may be manifest on administration of naloxone .
This may include yawning , tearing , restlessness , sweating , dilated pupils , piloerection , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal cramps .
This syndrome usually abates quickly as the effect of naloxone dissipates .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Since opium tincture can delay gastric emptying , evacuation of the stomach may be beneficial .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Monitor for and treat hypoglycemia .
The use of forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis or charcoal hemoperfusion has not been established to be beneficial .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dose – 0 . 6 mL orally 4 times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Opium Tincture , USP ( Deodorized ) , is supplied as : NDC 42799 - 217 - 01 Bottles of 4 fl oz NDC 42799 - 217 - 02 Bottles of 16 fl oz Store at controlled room temperature , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) ( see USP ) .
Manufactured for : Edenbridge Pharmaceuticals , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA 877 - 381 - 3336 Rev . 02 / 16 500445 - 02 Bottle Label 118 mL ( 4 Fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bottle Label 473 mL ( 16 Fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
