1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYNLONTA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B - cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy , including diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) not otherwise specified , DLBCL arising from low - grade lymphoma , and high - grade B - cell lymphoma .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
ZYNLONTA is a CD19 - directed antibody and alkylating agent conjugate indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B - cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy , including diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) not otherwise specified , DLBCL arising from low - grade lymphoma , and high - grade B - cell lymphoma .
( 1 ) This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • ZYNLONTA is an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on Day 1 of each cycle ( every 3 weeks ) .
The recommended dosage is : • 0 . 15 mg / kg every 3 weeks for 2 cycles .
• 0 . 075 mg / kg every 3 weeks for subsequent cycles .
( 2 . 1 ) • Premedicate with dexamethasone 4 mg orally or intravenously twice daily for 3 days beginning the day before ZYNLONTA .
( 2 . 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage ZYNLONTA as an intravenous infusion administered over 30 minutes on Day 1 of each cycle ( every 3 weeks ) .
Administer intravenous infusion as follows : • 0 . 15 mg / kg every 3 weeks for 2 cycles .
• 0 . 075 mg / kg every 3 weeks for subsequent cycles .
2 . 2 Recommended Premedication Unless contraindicated , administer dexamethasone 4 mg orally or intravenously twice daily for 3 days beginning the day before administering ZYNLONTA .
If dexamethasone administration does not begin the day before ZYNLONTA , dexamethasone should begin at least 2 hours prior to administration of ZYNLONTA .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications and Delays Recommended Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Adverse Reactions Severity [ 1 ] Dosage Modification Hematologic Adverse Reactions Neutropenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Absolute neutrophil count less than 1 × 109 / L Withhold ZYNLONTA until neutrophil counts returns to 1 × 109 / L or higher Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Platelet count less than 50 , 000 / mcL Withhold ZYNLONTA until platelet count returns to 50 , 000 / mcL or higher Nonhematologic Adverse Reactions Edema or Effusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 null or higher Withhold ZYNLONTA until the toxicity resolves to Grade 1 or less Other Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 null or higher Withhold ZYNLONTA until the toxicity resolves to Grade 1 or less [ 1 ] National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 . 0 Recommendations for Dosage Delays If dosing is delayed by more than 3 weeks due to toxicity related to ZYNLONTA , reduce subsequent doses by 50 % .
If toxicity reoccurs following dose reduction , consider discontinuation .
Note : If toxicity requires dose reduction following the second dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg ( Cycle 2 ) , the patient should receive the dose of 0 . 075 mg / kg for Cycle 3 .
2 . 4 Reconstitution and Administration Instructions Reconstitute and further dilute ZYNLONTA prior to intravenous infusion .
Use appropriate aseptic technique .
ZYNLONTA is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 Dose calculation Calculate the total dose ( mg ) required based on the patient ' s weight and prescribed dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• For patients with a body mass index ( BMI ) ≥ 35 kg / m2 , calculate the dose based on an adjusted body weight ( ABW ) as follows : ABW in kg = 35 kg / m2 × ( height in meters ) 2 • More than one vial may be needed to achieve the calculated dose .
• Convert the calculated dose ( mg ) to volume using 5 mg / mL , which is the concentration of ZYNLONTA after reconstitution .
Reconstitution of lyophilized ZYNLONTA • Reconstitute each ZYNLONTA vial using 2 . 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP with the stream directed toward the inside wall of the vial to obtain a final concentration of 5 mg / mL .
• Swirl the vial gently until the powder is completely dissolved .
Do not shake .
Do not expose to direct sunlight .
• Inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The solution should appear clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow .
Do not use if the reconstituted solution is discolored , is cloudy , or contains visible particulates .
• Use reconstituted ZYNLONTA immediately .
If not used immediately , store the reconstituted solution in the vial for up to 4 hours refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) or room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
• The product does not contain a preservative .
Discard unused vial after reconstitution if the recommended storage time is exceeded .
Dilution in infusion bag • Withdraw the required volume of reconstituted solution from the ZYNLONTA vial using a sterile syringe .
Discard any unused portion left in the vial .
• Add the calculated dose volume of ZYNLONTA solution into a 50 mL infusion bag of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
• Gently mix the intravenous bag by slowly inverting the bag .
Do not shake .
• If not used immediately , store the diluted ZYNLONTA infusion solution refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours or at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 8 hours .
Discard diluted infusion bag if storage time exceeds these limits .
Do not freeze .
• No incompatibilities have been observed between ZYNLONTA and intravenous infusion bags with product - contacting materials of polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) , polyolefin ( PO ) , and PAB ® ( copolymer of ethylene and propylene ) .
Administration • Administer by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes using a dedicated infusion line equipped with a sterile , non - pyrogenic , low - protein binding in - line or add - on filter ( 0 . 2 - or 0 . 22 - micron pore size ) and catheter .
• Extravasation of ZYNLONTA has been associated with irritation , swelling , pain , and / or tissue damage , which may be severe [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor the infusion site for possible subcutaneous infiltration during drug administration .
• Do not mix ZYNLONTA with or administer as an infusion with other drugs .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Injection : 10 mg of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl as a white to off - white lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
For injection : 10 mg of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Effusion and Edema : Monitor for the development of pleural effusion , pericardial effusion , ascites , peripheral edema , and general edema .
Consider diagnostic imaging when symptoms develop or worsen .
( 5 . 1 ) • Myelosuppression : Monitor blood cell counts .
Withhold , reduce , or discontinue ZYNLONTA based on severity .
( 5 . 2 ) • Infections : Monitor for infection and treat promptly .
( 5 . 3 ) • Cutaneous Reactions : Monitor patients for new or worsening cutaneous reactions , including photosensitivity reactions .
Dermatologic consultation should be considered .
( 5 . 4 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Effusion and Edema Serious effusion and edema occurred in patients treated with ZYNLONTA .
Grade 3 edema occurred in 3 % ( primarily peripheral edema or ascites ) and Grade 3 pleural effusion occurred in 3 % and Grade 3 or 4 pericardial effusion occurred in 1 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for new or worsening edema or effusions .
Withhold ZYNLONTA for Grade 2 or greater edema or effusion until the toxicity resolves .
Consider diagnostic imaging in patients who develop symptoms of pleural effusion or pericardial effusion , such as new or worsened dyspnea , chest pain , and / or ascites such as swelling in the abdomen and bloating .
Institute appropriate medical management for edema or effusions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Myelosuppression Treatment with ZYNLONTA can cause serious or severe myelosuppression , including neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and anemia .
Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in 32 % , thrombocytopenia in 20 % , and anemia in 12 % of patients .
Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 21 % and thrombocytopenia in 7 % of patients .
Febrile neutropenia occurred in 3 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor complete blood counts throughout treatment .
Cytopenias may require interruption , dose reduction , or discontinuation of ZYNLONTA .
Consider prophylactic granulocyte colony - stimulating factor administration as applicable [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Infections Fatal and serious infections , including opportunistic infections , occurred in patients treated with ZYNLONTA .
Grade 3 or higher infections occurred in 10 % of patients , with fatal infections occurring in 2 % .
The most frequent Grade ≥ 3 infections included sepsis and pneumonia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor for any new or worsening signs or symptoms consistent with infection .
For Grade 3 or 4 infection , withhold ZYNLONTA until infection has resolved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Cutaneous Reactions Serious cutaneous reactions occurred in patients treated with ZYNLONTA .
Grade 3 cutaneous reactions occurred in 4 % and included photosensitivity reaction , rash ( including exfoliative and maculo - papular ) , and erythema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for new or worsening cutaneous reactions , including photosensitivity reactions .
Withhold ZYNLONTA for severe ( Grade 3 ) cutaneous reactions until resolution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to minimize or avoid exposure to direct natural or artificial sunlight including exposure through glass windows .
Instruct patients to protect skin from exposure to sunlight by wearing sun - protective clothing and / or the use of sunscreen products .
If a skin reaction or rash develops , dermatologic consultation should be considered [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 ) ] .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , ZYNLONTA can cause embryo - fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman because it contains a genotoxic compound ( SG3199 ) and affects actively dividing cells .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 10 months after the last dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZYNLONTA , and for 7 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : Effusion and Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Cutaneous Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , are thrombocytopenia , increased gamma - glutamyltransferase , neutropenia , anemia , hyperglycemia , transaminase elevation , fatigue , hypoalbuminemia , rash , edema , nausea , and musculoskeletal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ADC Therapeutics at 1 - 855 - 690 - 0340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The pooled safety population described in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS reflect exposure to ZYNLONTA as a single agent at an initial dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg in 215 patients with DLBCL in studies ADCT - 402 - 201 ( LOTIS - 2 ) and ADCT - 402 - 101 , which includes 145 patients from LOTIS - 2 treated with 0 . 15 mg / kg × 2 cycles followed by 0 . 075 mg / kg for subsequent cycles .
Among 215 patients who received ZYNLONTA , the median number of cycles was 3 ( range 1 to 15 ) with 58 % receiving three or more cycles and 30 % receiving five or more cycles .
In this pooled safety population of 215 patients , the most common ( > 20 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , were thrombocytopenia , increased gamma - glutamyltransferase , neutropenia , anemia , hyperglycemia , transaminase elevation , fatigue , hypoalbuminemia , rash , edema , nausea , and musculoskeletal pain .
Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B - Cell Lymphoma LOTIS - 2 The safety of ZYNLONTA was evaluated in LOTIS - 2 , an open - label , single - arm clinical trial that enrolled 145 patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) , including high - grade B - cell lymphoma , after at least two prior systemic therapies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The trial required hepatic transaminases , including gamma - glutamyltransferase ( GGT ) , ≤ 2 . 5 times upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , total bilirubin ≤ 1 . 5 times ULN , and creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL / min .
Patients received ZYNLONTA 0 . 15 mg / kg every 3 weeks for 2 cycles , then 0 . 075 mg / kg every 3 weeks for subsequent cycles and received treatment until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity .
Among the 145 patients , the median number of cycles received was 3 , with 34 % receiving 5 or more cycles .
The median age was 66 years ( range 23 to 94 ) , 59 % were male , and 94 % had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status of 0 to 1 .
Race was reported in 97 % of patients ; of these patients , 90 % were White , 3 % were Black , and 2 % were Asian .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 28 % of patients receiving ZYNLONTA .
The most common serious adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % receiving ZYNLONTA were febrile neutropenia , pneumonia , edema , pleural effusion , and sepsis .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 1 % , due to infection .
Permanent treatment discontinuation due to an adverse reaction of ZYNLONTA occurred in 19 % of patients .
Adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation of ZYNLONTA in ≥ 2 % were gamma - glutamyltransferase increased , edema , and effusion .
Dose reductions due to an adverse reaction of ZYNLONTA occurred in 8 % of patients .
Adverse reactions resulting in dose reduction of ZYNLONTA in ≥ 4 % was gamma - glutamyltransferase increased .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 49 % of patients receiving ZYNLONTA .
Adverse reactions leading to interruption of ZYNLONTA in ≥ 5 % were gamma - glutamyltransferase increased , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and edema .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions in LOTIS - 2 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory DLBCL who received ZYNLONTA in LOTIS - 2 Adverse Reaction ZYNLONTA ( N = 145 ) All Grades ( % ) Grades 3 or 4 ( % ) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue [ 1 ] 38 1 [ 2 ] Edema [ 3 ] 28 3 null Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash [ 4 ] 30 2 null Pruritus 12 0 Photosensitivity reaction 10 2 null Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 23 0 Diarrhea 17 2 null Abdominal pain [ 5 ] 14 3 Vomiting 13 0 Constipation 12 0 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Musculoskeletal pain [ 6 ] 23 1 null Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 15 0 Respiratory Disorders Dyspnea [ 7 ] 13 1 null Pleural effusion 10 2 null Infection Upper respiratory tract infection [ 8 ] 10 < 1 null [ 1 ] Fatigue includes fatigue , asthenia , and lethargy [ 2 ] No Grade 4 adverse reactions occurred [ 3 ] Edema includes edema , face edema , generalized edema , peripheral edema , ascites , fluid overload , peripheral swelling , swelling , and swelling face [ 4 ] Rash includes rash , rash erythematous , rash maculopapular , rash pruritic , rash pustular , erythema , generalized erythema , dermatitis , dermatitis acneiform , dermatitis bullous , dermatitis exfoliative generalized , and palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome [ 5 ] Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain , abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain lower , and abdominal pain upper [ 6 ] Musculoskeletal pain includes musculoskeletal pain , musculoskeletal chest pain , musculoskeletal discomfort , back pain , limb discomfort , myalgia , neck pain , non - cardiac chest pain , and pain in extremity [ 7 ] Dyspnea includes dyspnea , and dyspnea exertional [ 8 ] Upper respiratory tract infection includes upper respiratory tract infection , upper respiratory tract congestion , nasopharyngitis , rhinitis , rhinovirus infection , and sinusitis Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients ( all grades ) who received ZYNLONTA included : • Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Febrile neutropenia ( 3 % ) • Cardiac disorders : Pericardial effusion ( 3 % ) • Infections : Pneumonia [ 1 ] ( 5 % ) , sepsis [ 2 ] ( 2 % ) • Skin and subcutaneous disorders : Hyperpigmentation ( 4 % ) • General disorders : Infusion site extravasation ( < 1 % ) Selected Other Adverse Reactions • Inflammatory - related conditions were reported in 3 % of patients in LOTIS - 2 , including pericarditis , pneumonitis , pleuritis , and dermatitis .
Table 2 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in LOTIS - 2 .
Table 2 : Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 10 % ) That Worsened from Baseline in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory DLBCL Who Received ZYNLONTA in LOTIS - 2 Laboratory Abnormality ZYNLONTA [ 1 ] All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Hematologic Platelets decreased 58 17 Neutrophils decreased 52 30 Hemoglobin decreased 51 10 [ 2 ] Chemistry GGT increased 57 21 Glucose increased 48 8 AST increased 41 < 1 null Albumin decreased 37 < 1 null ALT increased 34 3 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 143 to 145 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value [ 2 ] No Grade 4 adverse reactions occurred [ 1 ] Pneumonia includes pneumonia and lung infection [ 2 ] Sepsis includes sepsis , escherichia sepsis , and septic shock 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ZYNLONTA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : telangiectasia , blister , rash vesicular 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , ZYNLONTA can cause embryo - fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman , because it contains a genotoxic compound ( SG3199 ) and affects actively dividing cells [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on the use of ZYNLONTA in pregnant women to evaluate for drug - associated risk .
No animal reproduction studies were conducted with ZYNLONTA .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies were not conducted with loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl .
The cytotoxic component of ZYNLONTA , SG3199 , crosslinks DNA , is genotoxic , and is toxic to rapidly dividing cells , suggesting it has the potential to cause embryotoxicity and teratogenicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no data on the presence of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl or SG3199 in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed children , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ZYNLONTA can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ZYNLONTA .
Contraception Females Advise women of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 10 months after the last dose .
Males Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during the treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 7 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Males Based on the results from animal studies , ZYNLONTA may impair fertility in males .
The effects were not reversible in male cynomolgus monkeys during the 12 - week drug - free period [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ZYNLONTA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 145 patients with large B - cell lymphoma who received ZYNLONTA in clinical trials , 55 % were 65 years of age and older , while 14 % were 75 years of age and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ upper limit of normal [ ULN ] and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) .
Monitor patients with mild hepatic impairment for potential increased incidence of adverse reactions and modify the ZYNLONTA dosage in the event of adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
ZYNLONTA has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl is a CD19 - directed antibody and alkylating agent conjugate , consisting of a humanized IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody conjugated to SG3199 , a pyrrolobenzodiazepine ( PBD ) dimer cytotoxic alkylating agent , through a protease - cleavable valine - alanine linker .
SG3199 attached to the linker is designated as SG3249 , also known as tesirine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl has an approximate molecular weight of 151 kDa .
An average of 2 . 3 molecules of SG3249 are attached to each antibody molecule .
Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl is produced by chemical conjugation of the antibody and small molecule components .
The antibody is produced by mammalian ( Chinese hamster ovary ) cells , and the small molecule components are produced by chemical synthesis .
ZYNLONTA ( loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , white to off - white , preservative - free , lyophilized powder , which has a cake - like appearance , for intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution .
Each single - dose vial delivers 10 mg of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl , L - histidine ( 2 . 8 mg ) , L - histidine monohydrochloride ( 4 . 6 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 0 . 4 mg ) , and sucrose ( 119 . 8 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 2 . 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the final concentration is 5 mg / mL with a pH of approximately 6 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl is an antibody - drug conjugate ( ADC ) targeting CD19 .
The monoclonal IgG1 kappa antibody component binds to human CD19 , a transmembrane protein expressed on the surface of cells of B - lineage origin .
The small molecule component is SG3199 , a PBD dimer and alkylating agent .
Upon binding to CD19 , loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl is internalized followed by release of SG3199 via proteolytic cleavage .
The released SG3199 binds to the DNA minor groove and forms highly cytotoxic DNA interstrand crosslinks , subsequently inducing cell death .
Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl had anticancer activity in animal models of lymphoma .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Higher loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl exposure in Cycle 1 was associated with higher incidence of some Grade ≥ 2 adverse reactions , including skin and nail reactions , liver function test abnormalities and increased gamma - glutamyltransferase .
Lower loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl exposure in Cycle 1 was associated with lower efficacy over the dose range of 0 . 015 - 0 . 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 1 to 1 . 33 times the maximum recommended dose ) .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the maximum recommended therapeutic dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg during Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 , loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl does not cause large mean increases ( i . e . , > 20 msec ) in the QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The exposure of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl at the approved recommended dosage in Cycle 2 and at steady state is shown in Table 3 .
Loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl steady state Cmax was 28 . 2 % lower than the Cmax after the first dose .
The time to reach steady state was 105 days .
Table 3 : Loncastuximab Tesirine - lpyl Exposure Parameters [ 1 ] Time Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUCtau ( ng ∙ day / mL ) Cmax = Maximum observed serum concentration ; AUCtau = Area under curve over the dosing interval Cycle 2 2 , 911 ( 35 . 3 % ) 21 , 665 ( 54 . 1 % ) Steady state 1 , 776 ( 32 . 1 % ) 16 , 882 ( 38 . 2 % ) [ 1 ] Data presented as mean and coefficient of variation ( CV % ) Distribution The mean ( CV % ) of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl volume of distribution was 7 . 11 ( 26 . 6 % ) L . Elimination The mean ( CV % ) of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl clearance decreased with time from 0 . 499 L / day ( 89 . 3 % ) after a single dose to 0 . 275 L / day ( 38 . 2 % ) at steady state .
The mean ( standard deviation ) half - life of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl was 20 . 8 ( 7 . 06 ) days at steady state .
Metabolism The monoclonal antibody portion of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl is expected to be metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways .
The small molecule cytotoxin , SG3199 , is metabolized by CYP3A4 / 5 in vitro .
Excretion The major excretion pathways of SG3199 have not been studied in humans .
SG3199 is expected to be minimally renally excreted .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl were observed based on age ( 20 - 94 years ) , sex , race ( White vs . Black ) , body weight ( 42 . 1 to 160 . 5 kg ) , ECOG status ( 0 to 2 ) or mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to < 90 mL / min using the Cockcroft - Gault equation ) .
The effect of severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 to 29 mL / min ) , and end - stage renal disease with or without hemodialysis on loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl pharmacokinetics is unknown .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN , or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) may increase the exposure of unconjugated SG3199 , however there was no clinically significant effect on loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl pharmacokinetics .
The effect of moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to ≤ 3 × ULN and any AST ) or severe ( total bilirubin > 3 ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment on loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl pharmacokinetics is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : SG3199 does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , or CYP3A4 / 5 at clinically relevant unconjugated SG3199 concentrations .
Transporter Systems : SG3199 is a substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , but not a substrate of breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , organic anion - transporting polypeptide ( OATP ) 1B1 , or organic cation transporter ( OCT ) 1 .
SG3199 does not inhibit P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , organic anion transporter ( OAT ) 1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , OCT1 , multi - antimicrobial extrusion protein ( MATE ) 1 , MATE2 - K , or bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) at clinically relevant unconjugated SG3199 concentrations .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies to loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In LOTIS - 2 , 0 of 134 patients tested positive for antibodies against loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl after treatment .
The potential effect of anti - drug antibodies to ZYNLONTA on pharmacokinetics , efficacy , or safety is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl or SG3199 .
SG3199 was genotoxic in an in vitro micronucleus test and a chromosome aberration assay using human lymphocytes through a clastogenic mechanism .
These results are consistent with the pharmacological effect of SG3199 as a covalent DNA crosslinking agent .
Results of a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) were inconclusive due to cytotoxicity .
Fertility studies have not been conducted with loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl .
Results from repeat - dose toxicity studies with intravenous administration of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl in cynomolgus monkeys indicate the potential for impaired male reproductive function and fertility .
Administration of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl to cynomolgus monkeys every 3 weeks at 0 . 6 mg / kg for a total of 2 doses , or every 3 weeks at 0 . 3 mg / kg for 13 weeks resulted in adverse findings that included decreased weight and / or size of the testes and epididymis , atrophy of the seminiferous tubules , germ cell degeneration , and / or reduced sperm content .
The dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg in animals results in an exposure ( AUC ) that is approximately 3 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 0 . 15 mg / kg .
Findings were not reversible at the end of the 12 - week recovery period following 4 or 13 weeks of dosing .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Inflammatory - mediated toxicities associated with PBDs have been observed at low incidence in animals .
In repeat - dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys , administration of loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl was associated with potential inflammatory mediated - toxicities , including in the lungs and kidneys .
Renal toxicity including increased kidney weights and nephropathy with variable inflammation and fibrosis that was reversible was observed in monkeys .
Black skin spots potentially related to phototoxicity were observed and were still present after the 12 - week treatment - free period .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B - cell Lymphoma The efficacy of ZYNLONTA was evaluated in LOTIS - 2 ( NCT03589469 ) , an open - label , single - arm trial in 145 adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) after at least 2 prior systemic regimens .
The trial excluded patients with bulky disease and active central nervous system lymphoma .
Patients received ZYNLONTA 0 . 15 mg / kg every 3 weeks for 2 cycles , then 0 . 075 mg / kg every 3 weeks for subsequent cycles and received treatment until progressive disease , or unacceptable toxicity .
Of the 145 patients enrolled , the median age was 66 years ( range 23 to 94 ) , 59 % male , and 94 % had an ECOG performance status of 0 to 1 .
Race was reported in 97 % of patients ; of these patients , 90 % were White , 3 % were Black , and 2 % were Asian .
The diagnosis was DLBCL not otherwise specified ( NOS ) in 88 % ( including 20 % with DLBCL arising from low - grade lymphoma ) and high - grade B - cell lymphoma in 7 % .
The median number of prior therapies was 3 ( range 2 to 7 ) , 63 % with refractory disease , 17 % with prior stem cell transplant , and 9 % with prior chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T - cell therapy .
Efficacy was established on the basis of overall response rate ( ORR ) as assessed by an Independent Review Committee ( IRC ) using Lugano 2014 criteria ( Table 4 ) .
The median follow - up time was 7 . 3 months ( range 0 . 3 to 20 . 2 ) .
Table 4 Efficacy Results in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory DLBCLEfficacy Parameter ZYNLONTA N = 145 CI = confidence interval , NE = not estimable Overall response rate by IRC [ 1 ] , ( 95 % CI ) 48 . 3 % ( 39 . 9 , 56 . 7 ) Complete response rate ( 95 % CI ) 24 . 1 % ( 17 . 4 , 31 . 9 ) Partial response rate ( 95 % CI ) 24 . 1 % ( 17 . 4 , 31 . 9 ) Duration of overall response [ 2 ] N = 70 Median ( 95 % CI ) , months 10 . 3 ( 6 . 9 , NE ) [ 1 ] IRC = independent review committee using Lugano 2014 criteria [ 2 ] Of 70 patients with objective response , 25 ( 36 % ) were censored prior to 3 months .
Twenty - six percent of responders had a duration of response ≥ 6 months The median time to response was 1 . 3 months ( range 1 . 1 to 8 . 1 ) .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied ZYNLONTA ( loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder , which has a cake - like appearance , supplied in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
Each carton ( NDC 79952 - 110 - 01 ) contains one 10 mg single - dose vial .
Storage and Handling Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do not use beyond the expiration date shown on the carton .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
Special Handling ZYNLONTA is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 Any unused drug product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local requirements .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
• Effusion and Edema : Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience swelling , weight gain , shortness of breath , or difficult , labored breathing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Myelosuppression : Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or greater , or signs or symptoms of bruising or bleeding .
Advise patients of the need for periodic monitoring of blood counts [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Infections : Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for signs or symptoms of infection , including fever , chills , weakness and / or difficulty breathing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Cutaneous Reactions : Advise patients that skin reaction or rash can occur .
Patients should be directed to minimize or avoid exposure to direct natural or artificial sunlight , including sunlight exposure through glass windows .
Patients should be instructed to protect skin from exposure to sunlight by wearing sun - protective clothing and / or the use of sunscreen products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : • - Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant , or if pregnancy is suspected , during treatment with ZYNLONTA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• - Advise women of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 10 months after the last dose .
• - Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential , to use effective contraception during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 7 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : ADC Therapeutics SA Route de la Corniche 3 B 1066 Epalinges , Switzerland U . S . license No . 2166 Distributed by : ADC Therapeutics America Murray Hill , New Jersey 07974 For more information , go to www . ZYNLONTA . com or call 1 - 855 - 690 - 0340 ZYNLONTA is a registered trademark of ADC Therapeutics SA PAB is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
PATIENT INFORMATION ZYNLONTA ® ( zin lon ' tah ) ( loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl ) for injection , for intravenous use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : OCT 2022 What is ZYNLONTA ?
ZYNLONTA is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with certain types of large B - cell lymphoma that has come back ( relapsed ) or that did not respond to previous treatment ( refractory ) , who have already received two or more treatments for their cancer .
It is not known if ZYNLONTA is safe and effective in children .
Before you receive ZYNLONTA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have an active infection or have had one recently .
• have liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
ZYNLONTA can harm your unborn baby .
Females who can become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider may do a pregnancy test before starting treatment with ZYNLONTA .
• You should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 10 months after the last dose of ZYNLONTA .
Talk to your healthcare provider about effective birth control .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think that you are pregnant during treatment with ZYNLONTA .
Males with female partners who can become pregnant : • You should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 7 months after the last dose of ZYNLONTA .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ZYNLONTA passes into breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with ZYNLONTA and for 3 months after the last dose of ZYNLONTA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines that you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get new medicine .
How will I receive ZYNLONTA ?
• ZYNLONTA is given to you by your healthcare provider as an intravenous ( IV ) infusion into your vein over 30 minutes .
• ZYNLONTA is usually given every 3 weeks .
• Your healthcare provider may give you medicine before each infusion to decrease your chance of side effects .
• Your healthcare provider may stop your treatment , delay your treatment , or change your dose of ZYNLONTA if you have severe side effects .
• Your healthcare provider should do blood tests regularly to check for side effects of ZYNLONTA .
• Your healthcare provider will decide how many treatments you need .
What should I avoid while receiving ZYNLONTA ?
Avoid or limit your exposure to sunlight , including sunlight through glass , such as buildings or vehicle windows and artificial sunlight such as sunlamps or tanning beds .
Exposure to sunlight during treatment with ZYNLONTA can cause skin reaction or rash .
Use sun protection measures such as sunscreen and wear loose - fitting clothes that cover your skin while out in sunlight .
What are the possible side effects of ZYNLONTA ?
ZYNLONTA may cause serious side effects , including : • Fluid retention .
Your body may hold too much fluid during treatment with ZYNLONTA .
This can be serious .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop new or worsening swelling or puffiness , weight gain , chest pain , shortness of breath , or trouble breathing .
• Low blood cell counts ( platelets , red blood cells , and white blood cells ) .
Low blood cell counts are common with ZYNLONTA but can also be serious or severe .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood counts during treatment with ZYNLONTA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or above , or any bruising or bleeding .
• Infections .
Serious infections , including infections that can cause death , have happened in people treated with ZYNLONTA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have new or worsening signs or symptoms of infection , including : • fever • chills • flu - like symptoms ( cough , tiredness or weakness , and body aches ) • headache • breathing problems • cuts or scrapes that are red , warm , swollen or painful • Skin Reactions .
Serious skin reactions have happened in people treated with ZYNLONTA .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get new or worsening skin reactions , including sensitivity to sunlight , skin rash , peeling , redness or irritation .
You may burn more easily or get severe sunburns .
See " What should I avoid while receiving ZYNLONTA ? "
The most common side effects of ZYNLONTA include : • feeling tired or weak • skin rash • swelling • nausea • muscle or joint pain • increase in blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) • changes in certain blood or laboratory tests ZYNLONTA may cause fertility problems in males which may affect your ability to father children .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ZYNLONTA .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ZYNLONTA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ZYNLONTA that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in ZYNLONTA ?
Active ingredient : loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl Inactive ingredients : L - histidine , L - histidine monohydrochloride , polysorbate 20 , and sucrose .
Manufactured by : ADC Therapeutics SA , Route de la Corniche 3 B , 1066 Epalinges , Switzerland U . S . license number 2166 Distributed by : ADC Therapeutics America , Murray Hill , New Jersey 07974 ZYNLONTA is a registered trademark of ADC Therapeutics SA For more information , go to www . ZYNLONTA . com or call 1 - 855 - 690 - 0340 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Vial Carton NDC 79952 - 110 - 01 Zynlonta ™ ( loncastuximab tesirine - lpyl ) For Injection 10 mg / vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Reconstitute and dilute prior to administration One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion CAUTION : Hazardous Agent Rx Only ADC ™ THERAPEUTICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
