Magnesium Sullfate USP ( Epsom Salt ) Internal Use ............... Saline laxative External Use .............. Soaking Solution For internal Use as laxative : • do not exceed more than 2 doses per day • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve each dose in a full ( 8 ounces ) of liquid • Age = Aduls and children 12 years and older ............
Dose : 2 to 4 level teaspoons ( 10 to 22 grams ) daily • Children 6 and under 12 years ....................................
Dose : 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily • Not recommended for children under 6 years of age .
USES Internal • Relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • Generally produces bowel movements in 1 / 2 to 6 hours External - RElieves pain from minor prains and bruises KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Where prompt relief is not obtained or where ther is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on advice of a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Warnings - Ask a doctor before use if you have : • kidney disease • a magnesium restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking any other drug .
take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop and consult a doctor if : • As laxative : you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use .
• This may indicate a serious condition • You need to use a laxative for more than 1 week .
As a soaking solution if : • you have redness , irritation , swelling or infection occurs • hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabeted except with the advise of a pyhsician .
If pregnant or breast - feedig , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a poison control center immediately .
EPSOM SALT WITHOUT SCENT CAN BE APPLIED FOR BOTH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL USE , SCENTED EPSOM SALT CAN BE APPLIED FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
• n / a [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
