DESCRIPTION TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each gram of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % contains : Active : tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) .
Preservative : chlorobutanol 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : mineral oil , white petrolatum .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : Molecular Formula : C18H37N5O9 Molecular Weight : 467 . 52 g / mol [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 0 - { 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy - α - D - gluco - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) } - 0 - { 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexo - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) } - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If a sensitivity reaction to TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of ocular infections .
Information for Patients : Do not touch tube tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the ointment .
Do not use the product if the imprinted carton seals have been damaged , or removed .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions to TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % .
Postmarketing Experience : Additional adverse reactions identified from postmarketing use include anaphylactic reaction , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with systemic aminoglycosides : Neurotoxicity , ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have occurred in patients receiving systemic aminoglycoside therapy .
Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness in patients with known or suspected neuromuscular disorders , such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson ’ s disease , because of their potential effect on neuromuscular function .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , apply a half - inch ribbon into the affected eye ( s ) 2 or 3 times per day .
In severe infections , instill a half - inch ribbon into the affected eye ( s ) every 3 to 4 hours until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
How to Apply TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % : 1 .
Tilt your head back .
2 .
Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a '' V '' pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
3 .
Place a small amount ( about ½ inch ) of TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % in the '' V '' pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
4 .
Look downward before closing your eye .
HOW SUPPLIED TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is supplied as a 3 . 5 g sterile ointment in an aluminum tube with a white polyethylene tip and white polyethylene cap as follows : 3 . 5 g containing tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / g ) .................................................. NDC 0078 - 0813 - 01 Storage : Store at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
After opening , TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % can be used until the expiration date on the tube .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis Revised : June 2021 T2021 - 76 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0813 - 01 Tobrex ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % Sterile 3 . 5 g Net Wt .
NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
