Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Benzocaine 5 % Oral pain reliever Glycerin 33 % Oral demulcent Uses for the temporary relief of • occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , and sore throat • pain associated with canker sores • minor discomfort and protection of irritated areas in sore mouth and sore throat Warnings Allergy alert • Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or any other ' caine ' anesthetics .
Sore throat warning • If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire , flame or heat .
When using this product • do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
If irritation persists , consult a doctor • in rare cases , this product may cause a loss of sensation in the throat which is temporary and harmless • to avoid swallowing difficulties , avoid eating , chewing gum or sucking on lozenges for 20 minutes after using Directions • adults and children 6 years of age and older : spray into throat or onto affected area with only ONE spray per use .
Allow to remain in place for at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children 6 to under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • tamper evident : product is sealed for your protection .
Do not use if printed seal over nozzle is torn or missing .
• shake well before use • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not freeze Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , deionized water , flavors , neotame , polyoxyl - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , povidone K90 , SD alcohol 38 B Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 963 - 3382 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 22 . 2 mL Bottle Carton NDC 63824 - 780 - 75 Cēpacol ® ULTRA SORE THROAT SPRAY Benzocaine 5 % | Oral Pain Reliever Glycerin 33 % | Oral Demulcent Ultra1 SHOT for Pain Relief Instant Acting • On - the - Go Comfort 100 Sprays SUGAR FREE cherry 0 . 75 FL OZ ( 22 . 2 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
