DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only • Avoid contact with the eyes • If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • Do not use to clean the eye area .
Before using for the first time , apply a small amount to the affected area for 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , then follow directions for use .
Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe ) Leaf Juice , Alcohol Denatured , Water ( Aqua ) , Pentylene Glycol , Polyglyceryl - 4 Laurate / Sebacate , Polyglyceryl - 4 Caprylate / Caprate , Propandiol , Biosaccharide Gum - 1 , Caprylyl / Capryl Glucoside , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Water , Glycerin , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Niacinamide , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Benzyl Benzoate , Coumarin , Butylphenyl Methylpropanal .
Questions ?
Visit yesto . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 230 mL Bottle Label NEW yesto ™ tomatoes CLEAR SKIN for acne with salicylic acid acne fighting MICELLAR CLEANSING WATER Yes to ™ fighting pesky pimples with tomato extract , salicylic acid and micellar water to gently cleanse , treat and moisturize all - in - one , without rinsing .
NATURAL 95 % INGREDIENTS 7 . 77 fl oz / 230 mL 1020675P210117 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
