WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including ERMEZA , either alone or with other therapeutic agents , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
In euthyroid patients , doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction .
Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity , particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Thyroid hormones , including ERMEZA , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• • Doses beyond the range of daily hormonal requirements may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity ( 6 , 10 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism ERMEZA is indicated in adult and pediatric patients , including neonates , as a replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression ERMEZA is indicated in adult and pediatric patients , including neonates , as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
Limitations of Use : • • ERMEZA is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with ERMEZA may induce hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • ERMEZA is not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis .
ERMEZA is levothyroxine sodium ( T4 ) indicated in adult and pediatric patients , including neonates , for : • • Hypothyroidism : As replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
( 1 ) • • Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression : As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
( 1 ) • Limitations of Use : • - Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients • - Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Administer once daily , preferably on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine absorption .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Administer orally using the appropriate syringe provided in the original carton .
The 5 mL syringe should be used for doses up to 5 mL .
The 10 mL syringe should be used for doses over 5 mL .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) • • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors , including age , body weight , cardiovascular status , and concomitant medical conditions .
Peak therapeutic effect may not be attained for 4 - 6 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) • • See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and / or T4 as well as clinical status .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Administer ERMEZA as a single daily oral dose , on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
Administer ERMEZA at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with levothyroxine absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine absorption [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 and 2 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Convert mcg dosage to mL using the following equation and round up or down to the nearest syringe graduation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Administer ERMEZA directly to the mouth using the 5 mL or 10 mL oral syringe provided in the original carton .
A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device .
Instruct patients to read the “ Instructions for Use ” carefully for complete directions on how to properly dose and administer ERMEZA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Important Considerations for Dosing ERMEZA oral solution may have a different concentration from other levothyroxine oral solution products .
Use caution and consider the total dosage in terms of mcg and not volume ( mL ) when converting between ERMEZA and other levothyroxine oral solution products .
The dosage of ERMEZA for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including : the patient ' s age , body weight , cardiovascular status , concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient ' s clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
For adult patients with primary hypothyroidism , titrate until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
For secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism , serum TSH is not a reliable measure of ERMEZA dosage adequacy and should not be used to monitor therapy .
Use the serum free - T4 level to titrate ERMEZA dosing until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free - T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of ERMEZA may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage and Titration Primary , Secondary , and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Adults The recommended starting daily dosage of ERMEZA in adults with primary , secondary , or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on age and comorbid cardiac conditions , as described in Table 1 .
For patients at risk of atrial fibrillation or patients with underlying cardiac disease , start with a lower dosage and titrate the dosage more slowly to avoid exacerbation of cardiac symptoms .
Dosage titration is based on serum TSH or free - T4 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Table 1 .
ERMEZA Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Adults [ 1 ] Patient Population Starting Dosage Dosage Titration Based on Serum TSH or Free - T4 Adults diagnosed with hypothyroidism Full replacement dose is 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day .
Some patients require a lower starting dose .
Titrate dosage by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks , as needed until the patient is euthyroid .
Adults at risk for atrial fibrillation or with underlying cardiac disease Lower starting dose , less than 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day .
Titrate dosage every 6 to 8 weeks , as needed until the patient is euthyroid .
Geriatric patients Lower starting dose , less than 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day .
[ 1 ] Dosages greater than 200 mcg / day are seldom required .
An inadequate response to daily dosages greater than 300 mcg / day is rare and may indicate poor compliance , malabsorption , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Primary , Secondary , and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients The recommended starting daily dosage of ERMEZA in pediatric patients with primary , secondary , or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 2 .
Titrate the dosage ( every 2 weeks ) as needed based on serum TSH or free - T4 until the patient is euthyroid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Table 2 .
ERMEZA Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pediatric PatientsAge Starting Daily Dosage Per Kg Body Weight [ 1 ] 0 - 3 months 10 - 15 mcg / kg / day 3 - 6 months 8 - 10 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 months 6 - 8 mcg / kg / day 1 - 5 years 5 - 6 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 years 4 - 5 mcg / kg / day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 - 3 mcg / kg / day Growth and puberty complete 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day [ 1 ] Adjust dosage based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients from Birth to 3 Months of Age at Risk for Cardiac Failure Start at a lower starting dosage and increase the dosage every 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response .
Pediatric Patients at Risk for Hyperactivity To minimize the risk of hyperactivity , start at one - fourth the recommended full replacement dosage , and increase on a weekly basis by one - fourth the full recommended replacement dosage until the full recommended replacement dosage is reached .
Hypothyroidism in Pregnant Patients For pregnant patients with pre - existing hypothyroidism , measure serum TSH and free - T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and , at minimum , during each trimester of pregnancy .
In pregnant patients with primary hypothyroidism , maintain serum TSH in the trimester - specific reference range .
The recommended daily dosage of ERMEZA in pregnant patients is described in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
ERMEZA Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pregnant PatientsPatient Population Starting Dosage Dose Adjustment and Titration Pre - existing primary hypothyroidism with serum TSH above normal trimester - specific range Pre - pregnancy dosage may increase during pregnancy Increase ERMEZA dosage by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day .
Monitor TSH every 4 weeks until a stable dose is reached and serum TSH is within normal trimester - specific range .
Reduce ERMEZA dosage to pre - pregnancy levels immediately after delivery .
Monitor serum TSH 4 to 8 weeks postpartum .
New onset hypothyroidism ( TSH ≥ 10 IU per liter ) 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day Monitor serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust ERMEZA dosage until serum TSH is within normal trimester specific range .
New onset hypothyroidism ( TSH < 10 IU per liter ) 1 . 0 mcg / kg / day TSH Suppression in Well - differentiated Thyroid Cancer in Adult and Pediatric Patients The ERMEZA dosage is based on the target level for TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of thyroid cancer .
2 . 4 Converting Recommended Microgram Dosage to Milliliters After determination of the recommended ERMEZA dosage in mcg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] , convert the required mcg dosage to mL using the following equation : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Once the mcg dose has been converted to mL , it should be rounded up or down to the nearest syringe graduation ( 0 . 1 mL for doses up to 5 mL or 0 . 2 mL for doses up to 10 mL ) .
Example of dosing volumes in mL for the equivalent mcg dosages is shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Example Dosing Volumes ( mL ) for Equivalent Dosages ( mcg ) Dose ( mcg ) Dose ( mL ) using 5 mL syringe Dose ( mL ) using 10 mL syringe 12 . 5 0 . 4 Do not use 25 0 . 8 50 1 . 7 75 2 . 5 88 2 . 9 100 3 . 3 112 3 . 7 125 4 . 2 137 4 . 6 150 5 . 0 175 Do not use 5 . 8 200 6 . 6 300 10 . 0 The 5 mL syringe provided in the original carton should be used for doses up to 5 mL with each graduation mark representing 0 . 1 mL .
The 10 mL syringe provided in the original carton should be used for doses over 5 mL with each graduation mark representing 0 . 2 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 5 Monitoring TSH and / or Thyroxine ( T4 ) Levels Assess the adequacy of therapy by periodic assessment of laboratory tests and clinical evaluation .
Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism , despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of ERMEZA , may be evidence of inadequate absorption , poor compliance , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
The risk of thyroid imbalance can be linked to the switch between levothyroxine - containing products .
Assess the adequacy of therapy by assessment of laboratory tests , and clinical evaluation is recommended .
Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism , monitor serum TSH levels after an interval of 6 to 8 weeks after any change in dosage .
In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose , evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient ’ s clinical status .
Pediatric Patients In patients with hypothyroidism , assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free - T4 .
Monitor TSH and total or free - T4 in pediatric patients as follows : 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment , 2 weeks after any change in dosage , and then every 3 to 12 months thereafter following dosage stabilization until growth is completed .
Poor compliance or abnormal values may necessitate more frequent monitoring .
Perform routine clinical examination , including assessment of development , mental and physical growth , and bone maturation , at regular intervals .
The general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level .
TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary - thyroid feedback .
Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of ERMEZA therapy and / or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the patient is not receiving adequate therapy .
Assess compliance , dose of medication administered , and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of ERMEZA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Secondary and Tertiary Hypothyroidism Monitor serum free - T4 levels and maintain in the upper half of the normal range in these patients .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ERMEZA ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution , 150 mcg / 5 mL ( 30 mcg / mL ) is a clear , colorless solution supplied in a 90 mL or 180 mL amber glass bottle with a child - resistant closure .
ERMEZA is to be used with the 5 mL or 10 mL oral syringe provided in the original carton .
Oral Solution : 150 mcg levothyroxine sodium per 5 mL ( 30 mcg levothyroxine sodium per mL ) in 90 mL or 180 mL bottles ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ERMEZA is contraindicated in patients with : • • Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity to glycerin and edetate disodium , inactive ingredients in ERMEZA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• • Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency .
( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to glycerin and edetate disodium .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Serious risks related to overtreatment or undertreatment of ERMEZA : Titrate the dose of ERMEZA carefully and monitor response to titration .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Cardiac adverse reactions in the elderly and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease : Initiate ERMEZA at less than the full replacement dose because of the increased risk of cardiac adverse reactions , including atrial fibrillation .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 5 ) • • Myxedema coma : Do not use oral thyroid hormone drug products to treat myxedema coma .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Acute adrenal crisis in patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency : Treat with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of ERMEZA treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Worsening of diabetic control : Therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing thyroid hormone therapy .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Decreased bone mineral density associated with thyroid hormone over - replacement : Over - replacement can increase bone resorption and decrease bone mineral density .
Give the lowest effective dose .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Serious Risks Related to Overtreatment or Undertreatment of ERMEZA ERMEZA has a narrow therapeutic index .
Overtreatment or undertreatment with ERMEZA may have negative effects on growth and development , cardiovascular function , bone metabolism , reproductive function , cognitive function , gastrointestinal function , and glucose and lipid metabolism in adult or pediatric patients .
In pediatric patients with congenital and acquired hypothyroidism , undertreatment may adversely affect cognitive development and linear growth , and overtreatment is associated with craniosynostosis and acceleration of bone age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Titrate the dose of ERMEZA carefully and monitor response to titration to avoid these effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Consider the potential for food or drug interactions and adjust the administration or dosage of ERMEZA as needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Over - treatment with levothyroxine may cause an increase in heart rate , cardiac wall thickness , and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Initiate ERMEZA therapy in this population at lower doses than those recommended in younger individuals or in patients without cardiac disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor for cardiac arrhythmias during surgical procedures in patients with coronary artery disease receiving suppressive ERMEZA therapy .
Monitor patients receiving concomitant ERMEZA and sympathomimetic agents for signs and symptoms of coronary insufficiency .
If cardiac symptoms develop or worsen , reduce the ERMEZA dose or withhold for one week and restart at a lower dose .
5 . 3 Myxedema Coma Myxedema coma is a life - threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism and may result in unpredictable absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract .
Use of oral thyroid hormone drug products is not recommended to treat myxedema coma .
Administer thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration to treat myxedema coma .
5 . 4 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids .
Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with ERMEZA [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing ERMEZA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Decreased Bone Mineral Density Associated with Thyroid Hormone Over - Replacement Increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density may occur as a result of levothyroxine over - replacement , particularly in post - menopausal women .
The increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous , elevations in bone alkaline phosphatase , and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels .
Administer the minimum dose of ERMEZA that achieves the desired clinical and biochemical response to mitigate this risk .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : • • General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating • • Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia • • Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm • • Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest • • Respiratory : dyspnea • • Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests • • Dermatologic : hair loss , flushing , rash • • Endocrine : decreased bone mineral density • • Reproductive : menstrual irregularities , impaired fertility Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in pediatric patients receiving levothyroxine therapy .
Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants who have not undergone complete closure of the fontanelles , and in premature closure of the epiphyses in pediatric patients still experiencing growth with resultant compromised adult height .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness , and wheezing .
Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur .
Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage : arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , dyspnea , muscle spasm , headache , nervousness , irritability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , increased appetite , weight loss , diarrhea , heat intolerance , menstrual irregularities , and skin rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , metabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to ERMEZA .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , metabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to ERMEZA ( Tables 5 to 8 ) .
Table 5 .
Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of ERMEZA by binding and delaying or preventing absorption , potentially resulting in hypothyroidism .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phosphate Binders ( e . g . , calcium carbonate , ferrous sulfate , sevelamer , lanthanum ) Phosphate binders may bind to levothyroxine .
Administer ERMEZA at least 4 hours apart from these agents .
Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and ERMEZA for changes in thyroid function .
Bile Acid Sequestrants - Colesevelam - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins - Kayexalate Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption .
Administer ERMEZA at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels .
Other drugs : Proton Pump Inhibitors Sucralfate Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine .
Sucralfate , antacids and proton pump inhibitors may cause hypochlorhydria , affect intragastric pH , and reduce levothyroxine absorption .
Monitor patients appropriately .
Table 6 .
Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Potential impact ( below ) : Administration of these agents with ERMEZA results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein - binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increase free T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total and free T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 7 .
Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased ERMEZA requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ’ - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine .
Table 8 .
Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
Actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( See above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decrease or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of ERMEZA therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control , especially when thyroid therapy is started , changed , or discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants ERMEZA increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the ERMEZA dose is increased .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides ERMEZA may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may decrease when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and ERMEZA may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
ERMEZA may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on ERMEZA may result in increased ERMEZA requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and ERMEZA may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients .
7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and ERMEZA may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Tyrosine - Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine - kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism .
Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients .
7 . 9 Drug - Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect ERMEZA absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Soybean products , such as infant formula and soybean flour , cottonseed meal , walnuts , and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of ERMEZA from the gastrointestinal tract .
Grapefruit juice may delay the absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its bioavailability .
7 . 10 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determine the free - T4 index ( FT4I ) in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen - containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentration .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens , and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy may require the use of higher doses of ERMEZA .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The clinical experience , including data from post - marketing studies in pregnant women treated with oral levothyroxine , to maintain a euthyroid state have not reported increased rates of major birth defects , miscarriages , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with hypothyroidism in pregnancy .
Since TSH levels may increase during pregnancy , TSH should be monitored , and ERMEZA dosage adjusted during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with levothyroxine sodium .
ERMEZA should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of complications , including spontaneous abortion , gestational hypertension , pre - eclampsia , stillbirth , and premature delivery .
Untreated maternal hypothyroidism may have an adverse effect on fetal neurocognitive development .
Dose Adjustments During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period Pregnancy may increase ERMEZA requirements .
Serum TSH levels should be monitored , and the ERMEZA dosage adjusted during pregnancy .
Since postpartum TSH levels are similar to preconception values , the ERMEZA dosage should return to the pre - pregnancy dose immediately after delivery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk following the administration of oral levothyroxine sodium .
No adverse effects on the breastfed infant have been reported and there is no information on the effects of levothyroxine on milk production .
Adequate levothyroxine treatment during lactation may normalize milk production in hypothyroid lactating mothers with low milk supply .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ERMEZA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ERMEZA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use ERMEZA is indicated in patients from birth to less than 17 years of age : • • As a replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
• • As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
Glycerin has the potential to cause gastrointestinal irritation resulting in vomiting and / or osmotic diarrhea .
Patients in the first 3 months of life may be particularly susceptible to serious fluid and electrolyte complications from glycerin - induced gastrointestinal irritation .
Closely monitor patients from birth to 3 months of age receiving ERMEZA for signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation .
Rapid restoration of normal serum T4 concentrations is essential for preventing the adverse effects of congenital hypothyroidism on cognitive development as well as on overall physical growth and maturation .
Therefore , initiate ERMEZA therapy immediately upon diagnosis .
Levothyroxine is generally continued for life in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Closely monitor patients during the first 2 weeks of ERMEZA therapy for cardiac overload and arrhythmias .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly , initiate ERMEZA at less than the full replacement dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly patients .
Atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with levothyroxine overtreatment in the elderly .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Seizures occurred in a 3 - year - old child ingesting 3 . 6 mg of levothyroxine .
Symptoms may not necessarily be evident or may not appear until several days after ingestion of levothyroxine sodium .
Reduce the ERMEZA dosage or discontinue temporarily if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
Initiate appropriate supportive treatment as dictated by the patient ’ s medical status .
For current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage , contact the National Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org .
11 DESCRIPTION ERMEZA ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution contains synthetic L - 3 , 3 ' , 5 , 5 ' - tetraiodothyronine sodium salt [ levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium ] .
Synthetic T4 is chemically identical to that produced in the human thyroid gland , and is very slightly soluble in water .
Levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium hydrate has an empirical formula of C15H10I4NNaO4 with x ≈ 5 * , molecular weight of 798 . 86 ( anhydrous ) , and structural formula as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ERMEZA oral solution is supplied in the following strength : 150 mcg / 5 mL ( 30 mcg / mL ) .
ERMEZA oral solution contains the following inactive ingredients : edetate disodium , glycerin , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and L - thyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Oral levothyroxine sodium is a synthetic T4 hormone that exerts the same physiologic effect as endogenous T4 , thereby maintaining normal T4 levels when a deficiency is present .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Absorption of orally administered T4 from the gastrointestinal tract ranges from 40 % to 80 % .
The majority of the ERMEZA dose is absorbed from the jejunum and upper ileum .
T4 absorption is increased by fasting , and decreased in malabsorption syndromes and by certain foods such as soybeans .
Dietary fiber decreases bioavailability of T4 .
Absorption may also decrease with age .
In addition , many drugs and foods affect T4 absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Distribution Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine - binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and thyroxine - binding albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half - life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein - bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism T4 is slowly eliminated ( see Table 9 ) .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately 80 % of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( rT3 ) .
T3 and rT3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Excretion Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged and is eliminated in the feces .
Approximately 20 % of T4 is eliminated in the stool .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
Table 9 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid Patients Hormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( days ) Protein Binding ( % ) [ 1 ] Levothyroxine ( T4 ) 10 - 20 1 6 - 7 [ 2 ] 99 . 96 Liothyronine ( T3 ) 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 [ 1 ] Includes TBG , TBPA , and TBA [ 2 ] 3 to 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of levothyroxine have not been performed .
Studies to evaluate mutagenic potential and animal fertility have not been performed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied ERMEZA ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution , 150 mcg / 5 mL ( 30 mcg / mL ) is a clear , colorless solution supplied in a 90 mL or 180 mL amber glass bottle with a child - resistant closure .
A 5 mL with 0 . 1 mL graduation and a 10 mL with 0 . 2 mL graduation oral syringe are provided within the carton to accurately measure the prescribed dose .
It is available as follows : NDC 49502 - 378 - 75 : 75 mL of oral solution filled in 90 mL size amber glass bottles .
NDC 49502 - 378 - 15 : 150 mL of oral solution filled in 180 mL size amber glass bottles .
Storage and Handling Store ERMEZA at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
ERMEZA oral solution should be protected from light .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
Use within 90 days of opening the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform the patient of the following information to aid in the safe and effective use of ERMEZA : Dosing and Administration • • Instruct patients to take ERMEZA only as directed by their healthcare provider .
• • Instruct patients to take ERMEZA once daily , preferably on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
• • Instruct patients to always use the 5 mL or 10 mL oral syringe provided in the original carton when administering ERMEZA to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately .
Instruct patients to read the “ Instructions for Use ” carefully for complete directions on how to properly dose and administer ERMEZA .
• • Inform patients that agents such as iron and calcium supplements and antacids can decrease the absorption of levothyroxine .
Instruct patients not to take ERMEZA within 4 hours of these agents .
• • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or breastfeeding or are thinking of becoming pregnant while taking ERMEZA .
Important Information • • Inform patients that it may take several weeks before they notice an improvement in symptoms .
• • Inform patients that the levothyroxine in ERMEZA is intended to replace a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
Generally , replacement therapy is to be taken for life .
• • Inform patients that ERMEZA should not be used as a primary or adjunctive therapy in a weight control program .
• • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are taking any other medications , including prescription and over - the - counter preparations .
• • Instruct patients to notify their physician of any other medical conditions they may have , particularly heart disease , diabetes , clotting disorders , and adrenal or pituitary gland problems , as the dose of medications used to control these other conditions may need to be adjusted while they are taking ERMEZA .
If they have diabetes , instruct patients to monitor their blood and / or urinary glucose levels as directed by their physician and immediately report any changes to their physician .
If patients are taking anticoagulants , their clotting status should be checked frequently .
• • Instruct patients to notify their physician or dentist that they are taking ERMEZA prior to any surgery .
Adverse Reactions • • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they experience any of the following symptoms : rapid or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shortness of breath , leg cramps , headache , nervousness , irritability , sleeplessness , tremors , change in appetite , weight gain or loss , vomiting , diarrhea , excessive sweating , heat intolerance , fever , changes in menstrual periods , hives or skin rash , or any other unusual medical event .
• • Inform patients that partial hair loss may occur rarely during the first few months of ERMEZA therapy , but this is usually temporary .
Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . LEVOOSN : R1 PATIENT INFORMATION ERMEZA ™ [ er - meh - zah ] ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution What is the most important information I should know about ERMEZA ?
Do not use ERMEZA to treat weight problems or weight loss .
What is ERMEZA ?
ERMEZA is a prescription medicine that contains a hormone called levothyroxine which is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
ERMEZA is used in adults and children , including newborns : • • to replace or give extra levothyroxine when the thyroid does not produce enough of this hormone ; or • • with surgery and radiodine therapy to manage a type of thyroid cancer called thyroid - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
ERMEZA should not be used to treat people who are recovering from swelling of the thyroid gland ( thyroiditis ) and whose bodies do not produce enough levothyroxine for a short time .
Do not take ERMEZA : • • if your adrenal glands are not working well and you have not been treated for this problem ; or • • if you are allergic to glycerin or edetate disodium , the inactive ingredients in ERMEZA .
Before you take ERMEZA , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have or have had heart problems .
• • have or have had thyroid nodules .
• • have adrenal or pituitary gland problems .
• • have any food or drug allergies .
• • have low red blood cell count ( anemia ) .
• • have diabetes .
• • have weak bones ( osteoporosis ) .
• • have or had a history of blood clotting problems .
• • have recently received radiation therapy with iodine ( such as I - 131 ) .
• • plan to have surgery .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Your doctor may need to change your ERMEZA dose while you are pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding .
Levothyroxine can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take ERMEZA .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you are taking including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
ERMEZA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how ERMEZA works so your doctor may have to adjust the amount of medicines you take .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with ERMEZA .
How should I take ERMEZA ?
• • ERMEZA is for oral use only .
Do not inhale , inject , or place ERMEZA in the eyes .
• • See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” that come with ERMEZA for information on the right way to take your dose of ERMEZA .
• • Take ERMEZA exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• • Your doctor will tell you how much ERMEZA to take each day .
• • Your doctor may change your dose , if needed .
• • Take your dose of ERMEZA 1 time each day 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast on an empty stomach .
• • Certain medicines can interfere with how levothyroxine is absorbed by your body .
Take ERMEZA : • oat least 4 hours before or after you take medicines that contain calcium carbonate or iron ( ferrous sulfate ) ; and • oat least 4 hours before you take medicines that contain bile acid sequestrants or ion exchange resins .
Know the medicines you take .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
• • Certain foods including soybean products ( such as infant formula and soybean flour ) , cotton seed meal , walnuts , dietary fiber , and grapefruit juice can affect your treatment and dose of ERMEZA .
Talk to your doctor if you eat or drink these foods .
• • Use ERMEZA within 90 days of opening the bottle .
• • Your doctor should do certain blood tests while you are taking ERMEZA and may change your daily dose of ERMEZA as needed .
Keep taking ERMEZA unless your doctor tells you to stop or to change your dose .
It may take weeks before you notice your symptoms getting better .
Keep using this medicine even if you feel well .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a live Poison Control expert at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Advice is also available online at www . poison . org .
What are the possible side effects of ERMEZA ?
ERMEZA may cause serious side effects , including : • • heart problems .
You may experience an increased heart rate , chest pain and irregular heartbeat .
Your risk of developing heart problems may be greater if you are elderly , you have heart problems , or you take too much ERMEZA .
Your doctor may reduce your dose or stop treatment with ERMEZA for a while if you develop heart problems .
• • worsening diabetic control .
If you are diabetic , it may be harder to control your blood sugar levels causing hyperglycemia while taking ERMEZA .
Check your blood sugar levels closely after starting , changing , or stopping treatment with ERMEZA .
Your doctor may have to change your diabetes treatment plan .
• • weak or brittle bones .
Your risk of developing weak or brittle bones may be greater if you are post - menopausal or you take too much ERMEZA .
The most common side effects of ERMEZA include : • • fast or irregular heartbeat • • chest pain • • shortness of breath • • leg cramps • • headache • • nervousness • • hives or skin rash • • irritability • • sleep problems ( insomnia ) • • tremors • • muscle weakness • • change in appetite • • weight loss or weight gain • • vomiting • • diarrhea • • sweating a lot • • heat intolerance • • fever • • changes in menstrual period Other side effects may include partial hair loss during the first months of treatment with ERMEZA .
This usually lasts a short period of time ( temporary ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of ERMEZA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ERMEZA ?
• • Store ERMEZA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Protect from light .
• • Store ERMEZA in the original bottle .
Use ERMEZA within 90 days of opening the bottle .
Keep ERMEZA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ERMEZA Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ERMEZA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ERMEZA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms as you .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about ERMEZA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ERMEZA oral solution ?
Active ingredient : levothyroxine sodium Inactive ingredients : edetate disodium , glycerin , and purified water Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . , Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
© 2022 Viatris Inc .
ERMEZA is a trademark of Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris Company .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 4 / 2022 PL : LEVOOSN : R1 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ERMEZA ™ [ er - meh - zah ] ( levothyroxine sodium oral solution ) Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking ERMEZA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
• • Keep ERMEZA and all medicines out of reach of children .
• • Be sure that you read , understand and follow these instructions carefully to ensure correct dosing of the oral solution .
• • Always check the expiration date of your ERMEZA before use .
Do not use if the expiration date has passed .
• • Throw away ( discard ) any unused ERMEZA after 90 days of first opening the bottle .
• • Store ERMEZA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) with the oral syringes in the original carton .
Important Information You Need to Know Before Taking ERMEZA .
For oral use only ( take by mouth ) .
Two ERMEZA syringes are provided in the carton ( see Figure A ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • 5 mL syringe for doses up to 5 mL .
Each graduation mark represents 0 . 1 mL .
Figure A shows a graduation mark of 4 mL as an example .
• • 10 mL syringe for doses over 5 mL .
Each graduation mark represents 0 . 2 mL .
Figure A shows a graduation mark of 8 mL as an example .
Do not wash the syringes in a dishwasher , use warm water only .
Step 1 : Preparing the Dose • • Hold the bottle firmly with 1 hand and then push down on the bottle cap and turn it counterclockwise to remove it .
• • Ensure the syringe plunger is pushed all the way into the barrel to remove any air from the syringe .
• • Place the oral syringe provided into the medicine within the bottle ( See Figure B ) .
• • Pull back the plunger , ensuring the end remains in the medicine , until the graduation mark for the dose prescribed by your healthcare provider lines up with the top surface of the syringe barrel ( See Figure B ) .
Figure B shows a dose of 3 . 7 mL as an example .
• • If you see any large air bubbles in the barrel of the syringe , hold the syringe over the bottle to remove them and repeat Step 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Taking ERMEZA • • Place the end of the oral syringe into the corner of the mouth toward the inside cheek ( See Figure C ) .
• • Slowly push the plunger down until the syringe is empty .
• • Replace cap onto bottle and screw in a clockwise direction until tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Cleaning and Storage • • Pull plunger straight out of the oral syringe barrel ( See Figure D ) .
Rinse the barrel and plunger with warm water and leave to air dry .
• • When dry , place the plunger back inside the oral syringe barrel and put back inside the carton supplied and store at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2022 Viatris Inc .
ERMEZA is a trademark of Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris Company .
Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 4 / 2022 141152 - 0422 IFU : LEVOOSN : R1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 150 mcg / 5 mL NDC 49502 - 378 - 75 Rx only Ermeza ™ ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 150 mcg / 5 mL ( 30 mcg / mL ) For Oral Administration Only Please read the Instructions for Use before administering Ermeza .
One 5 mL oral syringe and one 10 mL oral syringe provided .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
75 mL Each 5 mL contains : Levothyroxine sodium , USP 150 mcg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Use within 90 days of opening the bottle .
Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . Mylan . com ERMEZA is a trademark of Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris Company .
© 2022 Viatris Inc .
DPT : 37875 : 1 C : R3 117715 - 1222 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
