• Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) 11 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients with • • community - acquired pneumonia or • • acute bacterial sinusitis due to confirmed , or suspected β - lactamase - producing pathogens ( i . e . , H . influenzae , M . catarrhalis , H . parainfluenzae , K . pneumoniae , or methicillin - susceptible S . aureus ) and S . pneumoniae with reduced susceptibility to penicillin ( i . e . , penicillin MICs equal to 2 mcg / mL ) .
Limitations of Use Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is not indicated for the treatment of infections due to S . pneumoniae with penicillin MICs greater than or equal to 4 mcg / mL .
Data are limited with regard to infections due to S . pneumoniae with penicillin MICs greater than or equal to 4 mcg / mL [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
In patients with community - acquired pneumonia in whom penicillin - resistant S . pneumoniae is suspected , bacteriological studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets are prescribed .
Acute bacterial sinusitis or community - acquired pneumonia due to a penicillin - susceptible strain of S . pneumoniae plus a β - lactamase - producing pathogen can be treated with another amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium product containing lower daily doses of amoxicillin ( i . e . , 500 mg every 8 hours or 875 mg every 12 hours ) .
Acute bacterial sinusitis or community - acquired pneumonia due to S . pneumoniae alone can be treated with amoxicillin .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is a combination of amoxicillin , a penicillin - class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium , a β - lactamase inhibitor , indicated for treatment of adults and pediatric patients with • • community - acquired pneumonia or • • acute bacterial sinusitis • due to confirmed , or suspected β - lactamase - producing pathogens ( i . e . , H . influenzae , M . catarrhalis , H . parainfluenzae , K . pneumoniae , or methicillin - susceptible S . aureus ) and S . pneumoniae with reduced susceptibility to penicillin ( i . e . , penicillin MICs equal to 2 mcg / mL ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is not indicated for the treatment of infections due to S . pneumoniae with penicillin MICs greater than or equal to 4 mcg / mL .
Data are limited with regard to infections due to S . pneumoniae with penicillin MICs greater than or equal to 4 mcg / mL .
( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Adults and Pediatric Patients > 40 kg : The recommended dosage of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is 4 , 000 mg / 250 mg daily at the start of a meal according to the following table ( 2 ) : Indication Dose Duration Acute bacterial sinusitis 2 tablets every 12 hours 10 days Community - acquired pneumonia 2 tablets every 12 hours 7 to 10 days 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets should be taken at the start of a meal to enhance the absorption of amoxicillin and to minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is not recommended to be taken with a high - fat meal because clavulanate absorption is decreased [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended dosage of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is 4 , 000 mg / 250 mg daily according to the following table : Table 1 : Recommended Dosage of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended - Release Tablets in Adult Patients Indication Dose Duration Acute bacterial sinusitis Two ( 1 , 000 mg / 62 . 5 mg ) tablets every 12 hours 10 days Community - acquired pneumonia Two ( 1 , 000 mg / 62 . 5 mg ) tablets every 12 hours 7 to 10 days Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets can be split in half along the score line for patients with difficulty swallowing the tablets whole .
Both halves of the tablet must be taken immediately .
2 . 3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Pediatric patients who weigh 40 kg or more and can swallow tablets should receive the adult dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Hepatically impaired patients should be dosed with caution and hepatic function monitored at regular intervals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 7 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablet is NOT substitutable on a mg - to - mg basis with other formulations of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
In addition , the extended - release tablets provide an extended time course of plasma amoxicillin concentrations compared to immediate - release tablets .
Thus , two amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 500 mg tablets are not equivalent to one amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release 1 , 000 mg tablet .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended - Release Tablets : • • 1 , 000 mg / 62 . 5 mg : Each white to cream tinged , oval film - coated bilayer tablet , debossed SZ 137 on one side and scored on the reverse side , contains amoxicillin trihydrate and amoxicillin sodium equivalent to a total of 1 , 000 mg of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium equivalent to 62 . 5 mg of clavulanic acid .
Extended - release Tablets : 1 , 000 mg / 62 . 5 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets or to other β ‑ lactams ( e . g . , penicillins or cephalosporins ) ( 4 . 1 ) • • History of cholestatic jaundice / hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
( 4 . 2 ) • • In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) and in hemodialysis patients .
( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to amoxicillin , clavulanate or to other β - lactam antibacterial drugs ( e . g . , penicillins and cephalosporins ) .
4 . 2 Cholestatic Jaundice / Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice / hepatic dysfunction associated with treatment with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
4 . 3 Renal Impairment Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) and in hemodialysis patients .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Serious ( including fatal ) hypersensitivity reactions : Discontinue amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets if a reaction occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) : Monitor closely .
Discontinue if rash progresses .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hepatic dysfunction and cholestatic jaundice : Discontinue if signs / symptoms of hepatitis occur .
Monitor liver function tests in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) : Evaluate patients if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Patients with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets develop skin rash .
Avoid amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets use in these patients .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Serious Allergic Reactions , Including Anaphylaxis Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
Before initiating therapy with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , careful inquiry should be made regarding previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , or other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and institute appropriate therapy .
5 . 2 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets may cause severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) , such as Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) .
If patients develop a skin rash , they should be monitored closely , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets discontinued if lesions progress .
5 . 3 Hepatic Dysfunction Use amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets with caution in patients with evidence of hepatic dysfunction .
Hepatic toxicity associated with the use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is usually reversible .
Deaths have been reported ( fewer than one death reported per estimated four million prescriptions worldwide ) .
These have generally been cases associated with serious underlying diseases or concomitant medications [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) , and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 5 Skin Rash in Patients with Mononucleosis A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
5 . 6 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth The possibility of superinfections with mycotic or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
If superinfections occur ( usually involving Pseudomonas spp .
or Candida spp . )
, the drug should be discontinued and / or appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 7 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Anaphylactic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hepatic Dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea ( 15 % ) , vaginal mycosis ( 3 % ) nausea ( 2 % ) , and loose stools ( 2 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , 5 , 643 patients have been treated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions which were suspected or probably drug - related were diarrhea ( 15 % ) , vaginal mycosis ( 3 % ) nausea ( 2 % ) , and loose stools ( 2 % ) .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets had a higher rate of diarrhea which required corrective therapy ( 4 % versus 3 % for amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and all comparators , respectively ) .
Two percent of patients discontinued therapy because of drug - related adverse reactions .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following have been identified during post - marketing use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium products , including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , indigestion , gastritis , stomatitis , glossitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , mucocutaneous candidiasis , enterocolitis , and hemorrhagic / pseudo membranous colitis .
Onset of pseudo membranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Immune : Hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ( including shock ) , angioedema , serum sickness - like reactions ( urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia , and frequently fever ) , hypersensitivity vasculitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Skin and Appendages : Rashes , pruritus , urticaria , erythema multiforme , SJS , TEN , DRESS , AGEP , exfoliative dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Liver : A moderate rise in AST ( SGOT ) and / or ALT ( SGPT ) has been noted in patients treated with ampicillin - class antibacterials , but the significance of these findings is unknown .
Hepatic dysfunction , including hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice , [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] , increases in serum transaminases ( AST and / or ALT ) , serum bilirubin , and / or alkaline phosphatase , has been reported with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
It has been reported more commonly in the elderly , in males , or in patients on prolonged treatment .
The histologic findings on liver biopsy have consisted of predominantly cholestatic , hepatocellular , or mixed cholestatic - hepatocellular changes .
The onset of signs / symptoms of hepatic dysfunction may occur during or several weeks after therapy has been discontinued .
The hepatic dysfunction , which may be severe , is usually reversible .
Deaths have been reported [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Renal : Interstitial nephritis , hematuria , and crystalluria have been reported [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
There have been reports of increased prothrombin time in patients receiving amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and anticoagulant therapy concomitantly .
Central Nervous System : Agitation , anxiety , behavioral changes , aseptic meningitis , confusion , convulsions , dizziness , headache , insomnia , and reversible hyperactivity have been reported .
Miscellaneous : Tooth discoloration ( brown , yellow , or gray staining ) has been reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Co - administration with probenecid is not recommended .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Co - administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin .
Concurrent use with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin .
Co - administration of probenecid is not recommended .
7 . 2 Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time ( increased international normalized ratio [ INR ] ) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants .
Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently .
Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation .
7 . 3 Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin substantially increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
In controlled clinical trials of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , 25 patients received concomitant allopurinol and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
No rashes were reported in these patients .
However , this sample size is too small to allow for any conclusions to be drawn regarding the risk of rashes with concomitant amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and allopurinol use .
7 . 4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets may affect intestinal flora , leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen / progesterone contraceptives .
7 . 5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended release tablets , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used .
Following administration of amoxicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone , and estradiol has been noted 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Renal Impairment : Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies performed in pregnant rats and mice given amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium at oral doses up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium .
In terms of body surface area , the doses in rats were 1 . 6 times the maximum human oral dose of amoxicillin and 13 times the maximum human dose for clavulanate .
For mice , these doses were 0 . 9 and 7 . 4 times the maximum human oral dose of amoxicillin and clavulanate , respectively .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin is poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs have shown that intravenous administration of ampicillin decreased the uterine tone , frequency of contractions , height of contractions , and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether the use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
In a single study in women with premature rupture of fetal membranes , it was reported that prophylactic treatment with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be associated with an increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis in neonates .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Amoxicillin has been shown to be excreted in human milk ; therefore , caution should be exercised when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets have been established for pediatric patients weighing greater than or equal to 40 kg who are able to swallow tablets .
Use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets in these pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled trials of adults with acute bacterial sinusitis and community - acquired pneumonia with additional data from a pediatric pharmacokinetic study .
A pharmacokinetic study in pediatric patients ( 7 to 15 years of age and weighing greater than or equal to 40 kg ) was conducted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The adverse event profile in 44 pediatric patients who received at least one dose of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets was consistent with the established adverse event profile for the product in adults .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , 18 % were 65 years or older and 7 % were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in safety and effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other clinical experience has not reported differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but a greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of dose dependent toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 30 mL / min and in hemodialysis patients [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Hepatically impaired patients should be dosed with caution and hepatic function monitored at regular intervals [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Following overdosage , patients have experienced primarily gastrointestinal symptoms including stomach and abdominal pain , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Rash , hyperactivity , or drowsiness have also been observed in a small number of patients .
In the case of overdosage , discontinue amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
If the overdosage is very recent and there is no contraindication , an attempt at emesis or other means of removal of drug from the stomach may be performed .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison control center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms and do not require gastric emptying1 .
Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in a small number of patients after overdosage with amoxicillin .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In the case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of both amoxicillin and clavulanate .
Both amoxicillin and clavulanate are removed from the circulation by hemodialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets for oral use is an antibacterial combination consisting of the semisynthetic antibacterial amoxicillin ( present as amoxicillin trihydrate and amoxicillin sodium ) and the β - lactamase inhibitor clavulanate potassium ( the potassium salt of clavulanic acid ) .
Amoxicillin is an analog of ampicillin , derived from the basic penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
The amoxicillin trihydrate molecular formula is C16H19N3O5S • 3H2O , and the molecular weight is 419 . 45 .
Chemically , amoxicillin trihydrate is ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - ( - ) - 2 - Amino - 2 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido ] - 3 , 3 ‑ dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid trihydrate and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The amoxicillin sodium molecular formula is C16H18N3NaO5S , and the molecular weight is 387 . 39 .
Chemically , amoxicillin sodium is [ 2 - [ 2α , 5α , 6β ( S * ) ] ] - 6 - [ [ Amino ( 4 ‑ hydroxyphenyl ) acetyl ] amino ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 ‑ carboxylic acid monosodium salt and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clavulanic acid is produced by the fermentation of Streptomyces clavuligerus .
It is a β ‑ lactam structurally related to the penicillins and possesses the ability to inactivate a wide variety of β - lactamases by blocking the active sites of these enzymes .
Clavulanic acid is particularly active against the clinically important plasmid - mediated β - lactamases frequently responsible for transferred drug resistance to penicillins and cephalosporins .
The clavulanate potassium molecular formula is C8H8KNO5 , and the molecular weight is 237 . 25 .
Chemically , clavulanate potassium is potassium ( Z ) - ( 2 R , 5 R ) - 3 - ( 2 - hydroxy ethylidene ) - 7 - oxo - 4 - oxa - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] - heptane - 2 - carboxylate , and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release contains 1 , 000 mg of amoxicillin ( 437 . 5 mg as amoxicillin sodium and 562 . 5 mg as amoxicillin trihydrate ) , and 62 . 5 mg of clavulanic acid ( equivalent to 74 . 5 mg of clavulanate potassium ) .
Inactive Ingredients : Anhydrous citric acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide , and xanthan gum .
Each tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets contains approximately 12 mg of potassium and 29 mg of sodium .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is an extended - release formulation which provides sustained plasma concentrations of amoxicillin .
Amoxicillin systemic exposure achieved with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is similar to that produced by the oral administration of equivalent doses of amoxicillin alone .
Absorption Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium are well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
In a study of healthy adult volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets were compared when administered in a fasted state , at the start of a standardized meal ( 612 kcal , 89 . 3 g carb , 24 . 9 g fat , and 14 g protein ) , or 30 minutes after a high ‑ fat meal .
When the systemic exposure to both amoxicillin and clavulanate is taken into consideration , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is optimally administered at the start of a standardized meal .
Absorption of amoxicillin is decreased in the fasted state .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is not recommended to be taken with a high ‑ fat meal , because clavulanate absorption is decreased .
The pharmacokinetics of the components of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets following administration of two amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets at the start of a standardized meal are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameter for Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Following Oral Administration of Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended - Release Tablets ( 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg ) to Healthy Adult Volunteers ( n = 55 ) Fed a Standardized Meal Parameter ( units ) Amoxicillin Clavulanate AUC ( 0 ‑ inf ) ( mcg • hr / mL ) 71 . 6 ( 16 . 5 ) 5 . 29 ( 1 . 55 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 17 . 0 ( 4 . 0 ) 2 . 05 ( 0 . 80 ) Tmax ( hours ) * 1 . 50 ( 1 . 00 ‑ 6 . 00 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 75 ‑ 3 . 00 ) T1 / 2 ( hours ) 1 . 27 ( 0 . 20 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 17 ) * Median ( range ) .
The half - life of amoxicillin after the oral administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is approximately 1 . 3 hours , and that of clavulanate is approximately 1 . 0 hour .
Distribution Neither component in amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is highly protein ‑ bound ; clavulanate has been found to be approximately 25 % bound to human serum and amoxicillin approximately 18 % bound .
Amoxicillin diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids , with the exception of the brain and spinal fluid .
The results of experiments involving the administration of clavulanic acid to animals suggest that this compound , like amoxicillin , is well distributed in body tissues .
Excretion Clearance of amoxicillin is predominantly renal , with approximately 60 % to 80 % of the dose being excreted unchanged in urine , whereas clearance of clavulanate has both a renal ( 30 % to 50 % ) and a non ‑ renal component .
Drug Interactions Concurrent administration of probenecid delays amoxicillin excretion but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanate [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
In a study of adults , the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and clavulanate were not affected by administration of an antacid ( MAALOX ® ) , either simultaneously with or 2 hours after amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
Pediatrics In a study of pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis , 7 to 15 years of age , and weighing at least 40 kg , the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and clavulanate were assessed following administration of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets 2000 mg / 125 mg ( as two 1000 mg / 62 . 5 mg tablets ) every 12 hours with food ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Following Oral Administration of Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended - Release Tablets ( 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg ) Every 12 Hours with Food to Pediatric Patients ( 7 to 15 Years of Age and Weighing ≥ 40 kg ) With Acute Bacterial Sinusitis Parameter ( units ) Amoxicillin ( n = 24 ) Clavulanate ( n = 23 ) AUC ( 0 ‑ τ ) ( mcg • hr / mL ) 57 . 8 ( 15 . 6 ) 3 . 18 ( 1 . 37 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 11 . 0 ( 3 . 34 ) 1 . 17 ( 0 . 67 ) Tmax ( hours ) 2 . 0 ( 1 . 0 - 5 . 0 ) 2 . 0 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 0 ) T1 / 2 ( hours ) 3 . 32 ( 2 . 21 ) † 0 . 94 ( 0 . 13 ) ‡ * Median ( range ) .
† n = 18 .
‡ n = 17 .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Amoxicillin binds to penicillin - binding proteins within the bacterial cell wall and inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Clavulanic acid is a β - lactam , structurally related to penicillin , that may inactivate certain β ‑ lactamase enzymes .
Resistance Resistance to penicillins may be mediated by destruction of the β - lactam ring by a β - lactamase , altered affinity of penicillin for target , or decreased penetration of the antibacterial drug to reach the target site .
Amoxicillin alone is susceptible to degradation by β ‑ lactamases , and therefore its spectrum of activity does not include bacteria that produce these enzymes .
Antimicrobial Activity Amoxicillin / clavulanic acid has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Gram - positive Bacteria : Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible ) Streptococcus pneumoniae Gram - negative Bacteria : Haemophilus influenzae Haemophilus parainfluenzae Klebsiella pneumoniae Moraxella catarrhalis The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for amoxicillin and clavulanic acid against isolates of similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid in treating clinical infections caused by these bacteria have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - positive bacteria : Streptococcus pyogenes Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long ‑ term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
The mutagenic potential of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium was investigated in vitro with an Ames test , a human lymphocyte cytogenetic assay , a yeast test , and a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , and in vivo with mouse micronucleus tests and a dominant lethal test .
All were negative apart from the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay , where weak activity was found at very high , cytotoxic concentrations .
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium at oral doses of up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 9 times the maximum human dose of amoxicillin and 15 times the maximum human dose of clavulanate based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance in rats dosed with a 2 : 1 ratio formulation of amoxicillin : clavulanate .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis Adults with a diagnosis of acute bacterial sinusitis ( ABS ) were evaluated in 3 clinical studies .
In one study , 363 patients were randomized to receive either amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg orally every 12 hours or levofloxacin 500 mg orally daily for 10 days in a double ‑ blind , multicenter , prospective trial .
These patients were clinically and radiologically evaluated at the test of cure ( day 17 to 28 ) visit .
The combined clinical and radiological responses were 84 % for amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets and 84 % for levofloxacin at the test of cure visit in clinically evaluable patients ( 95 % CI for the treatment difference equals ‑ 9 . 4 , 8 . 3 ) .
The clinical response rates at the test of cure were 87 % and 89 % , respectively .
The other 2 trials were non ‑ comparative , multicenter studies designed to assess the bacteriological and clinical efficacy of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets ( 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg orally every 12 hours for 10 days ) in the treatment of 2 , 288 patients with ABS .
Evaluation time points were the same as in the prior study .
Patients underwent maxillary sinus puncture for culture prior to receiving study medication .
Patients with acute bacterial sinusitis due to S . pneumoniae with reduced susceptibility to penicillin were accrued through enrollment in these 2 open ‑ label non ‑ comparative clinical trials .
Microbiologic eradication rates for key pathogens in these studies are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Clinical Outcome for ABS Penicillin MICs of S . pneumoniae Isolates Intent - To - Treat Clinically Evaluable n / N % 95 % CI † n / N % 95 % CI † All S . pneumoniae 344 / 370 93 — 318 / 326 98 — MIC ≥ 2 . 0 mcg / mL ‡ 35 / 36 97 85 . 5 , 99 . 9 30 / 31 96 83 . 3 , 99 . 9 MIC = 2 . 0 mcg / mL 23 / 24 96 78 . 9 , 99 . 9 19 / 20 95 75 . 1 , 99 . 9 MIC ≥ 4 . 0 mcg / mL § 12 / 12 100 73 . 5 , 100 11 / 11 100 71 . 5 , 100 H . influenzae 265 / 305 87 — 242 / 259 93 — M . catarrhalis 94 / 105 90 — 86 / 90 96 — * n / N = patients with pathogen eradicated or presumed eradicated / total number of patients .
† Confidence limits calculated using exact probabilities .
‡ S . pneumoniae strains with penicillin MICs of ≥ 2 mcg / mL are considered resistant to penicillin .
§ Includes one patient each with S . pneumoniae penicillin MICs of 8 and 16 mcg / mL .
14 . 2 Community - Acquired Pneumonia Four randomized , controlled , double ‑ blind clinical studies and one non ‑ comparative study were conducted in adults with community - acquired pneumonia ( CAP ) .
In comparative studies , 904 patients received amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets at a dose of 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg orally every 12 hours for 7 or 10 days .
In the non - comparative study to assess both clinical and bacteriological efficacy , 1 , 122 patients received amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg / 125 mg orally every 12 hours for 7 days .
In the 4 comparative studies , the combined clinical success rate at test of cure ranged from 86 % to 95 % in clinically evaluable patients who received amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets .
Data on the efficacy of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets in the treatment of community ‑ acquired pneumonia due to S . pneumoniae with reduced susceptibility to penicillin were accrued from the 4 controlled clinical studies and the 1 non ‑ comparative study .
The majority of these cases were accrued from the non ‑ comparative study .
Results are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Clinical Outcome for CAP due to S . pneumoniae Penicillin MICs of S . pneumoniae Isolates Intent - To - Treat Clinically Evaluable n / N % 95 % CI † n / N % 95 % CI † All S . pneumoniae 318 / 367 87 ____ 275 / 297 93 _____ MIC ≥ 2 . 0 mcg / mL ‡ 30 / 35 86 69 . 7 , 95 . 2 24 / 25 96 79 . 6 , 99 . 9 MIC = 2 . 0 mcg / mL 22 / 24 92 73 . 0 , 99 . 0 18 / 18 100 81 . 5 , 100 MIC ≥ 4 . 0 mcg / mL § 8 / 11 73 39 . 0 , 94 . 0 6 / 7 86 42 . 1 , 99 . 6 * n / N = patients with pathogen eradicated or presumed eradicated / total number of patients .
† Confidence limits calculated using exact probabilities .
‡ S . pneumoniae strains with penicillin MICs of ≥ 2 mcg / mL are considered resistant to penicillin .
§ Includes one patient each with S . pneumoniae penicillin MICs of 8 and 16 mcg / mL in the Intent ‑ To ‑ Treat group only .
15 REFERENCES • 1 . Swanson - Biearman B , Dean BS , Lopez G , Krenzelok EP .
The effects of penicillin and cephalosporin ingestions in children less than six years of age .
Vet Hum Toxicol .
1988 ; 30 : 66 - 67 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended - Release Tablets : Each white to cream tinged , oval film ‑ coated bilayer tablet , debossed SZ 137 on one side and scored on the reverse side , contains amoxicillin trihydrate and amoxicillin sodium equivalent to a total of 1 , 000 mg of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium equivalent to 62 . 5 mg of clavulanic acid .
NDC 0781 - 1943 - 82 Bottles of 28 ( 7 day Extended Release Tablets pack ) NDC 0781 - 1943 - 39 Bottles of 40 ( 10 day Extended Release Tablets pack ) Storage Store tablets at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in original container .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Instructions Counsel patients to take amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets every 12 hours with a low fat meal or snack to reduce the possibility of gastrointestinal upset .
If diarrhea develops and is severe or lasts more than 2 or 3 days , call your doctor .
Allergic Reactions Counsel patients that amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets contains a penicillin class drug product that can cause allergic reactions in some individuals .
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions ( SCAR ) Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations .
Instruct patients to stop taking amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets immediately and promptly report the first signs or symptoms of skin rash , mucosal lesions , or any other sign of hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
Antibacterial drugs do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium extended - release tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea Counsel patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials drugs which usually ends when the antibacterial drug is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial drugs , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken their last dose of the antibacterial drug .
If diarrhea is severe or lasts more than 2 or 3 days , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
MAALOX ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
CLINITEST ® is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
46320723 Manufactured by Sandoz GmbH for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 1000 mg / 62 . 5 mg Label NDC 0781 - 1943 - 82 Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Extended Release Tablets 1000 mg * / 62 . 5 mg Rx Only AMOXICILLIN , 1000 mg , CLAVULANIC ACID , 62 . 5 mg , as clavulanate potassium 7 day Extended Release Pack 28 Scored Tablets SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
