Important Read all product information before using .
Keep this box for important information .
Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each caplet ) Ibuprofen 200 mg ( NSAID ) * * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to : • headache • muscular aches • minor pain of arthritis • toothache • backache • the common cold • menstrual cramps • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Allergy alert Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you : • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Brown Film - Coated Caplets contain FD + C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) as a color additive Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to ibuprofen or any other pain reliever / fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke , because ibuprofen may decrease this benefit of aspirin • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used adults and children 12 years and older • take 1 caplet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist • if pain or fever does not respond to 1 caplet , 2 caplets may be used • do not exceed 6 caplets in 24 hours , unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years • ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not use if the inner seal imprinted with " SEALED for YOUR PROTECTION " is broken or missing Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 844 - 374 - 0016 Monday through Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST .
Ibuprofen tablets are available in the following colors and sizes : Orange , Capsule - shaped Tablet , debossed with BI 03 Bottles of 24 NDC 11788 - 003 - 07 Bottles of 1000 NDC 11788 - 003 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] White , Capsule - shaped Tablet , debossed with BI 05 Bottles of 24 NDC 11788 - 005 - 07 Bottles of 1000 NDC 11788 - 005 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Brown , Capsule - shaped Tablet , debossed with BI 07 Bottles of 24 NDC 11788 - 007 - 07 Bottles of 1000 NDC 11788 - 007 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
