Extra back panel claims Complete beauty lotion all day moisturizer Broad Sptctrum SPF 15 with Vitamin E and Aloe Sensitive Skin light and non - greasy formula Sunscreen ShopRite Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc Oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunbrun • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures , Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protections measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , cetyl alcohol , steareth - 2 , disodium EDTA , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , oleth - 3 phosphate , benzyl alcohol , chlorphenesin Side Panel Claims Broad spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen with vitaming E and aloe Sensitive Skin light and non - greasy lotion ShopRite Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributer or Olay Complete All Day Moisture Lotion SPF 15 Adverse Reactions Section DISTRIBUTED BY WAKEFERN FOOD CORPORATION 5000 RIVERSIDE DRIVE , KEASBEY , NJ O8832 1 - 800 - SHOPRITE www . shoprite . com Compare to Olay Complete All Day Moisture Lotion SPF 15 complete beauty lotion all day moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen with vitamin E and aloe Sensitive Skin light and non - greasy lotion ShopRite 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
