DESCRIPTION Dicyclomine hydrochloride is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agent .
Dicyclomine hydrochloride occurs as a fine , white , crystalline , practically odorless powder with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol and chloroform , and very slightly soluble in ether .
Chemically , it is [ Bicyclohexyl ] - 1 - carboxylic acid , 2 - ( diethyl - amino ) ethyl ester , hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C19H35NO2 • HCI 345 . 95 Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 10 mg of dicyclomine hydrochloride .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 20 mg of dicyclomine hydrochloride .
This product contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide ( tablets only ) , corn starch ( tablets only ) , D & C red # 28 ( capsules only ) , FD & C blue # 1 ( capsules only ) , FD & C blue # 1 lake ( tablets only ) , FD & C red # 40 ( capsules only ) , gelatin ( capsules only ) , hypromellose ( tablets only ) , lactose monohydrate ( tablets only ) , magnesium stearate ( capsules only ) , pregelatinized starch , silicon dioxide ( capsules only ) , sodium lauryl sulfate ( capsules only ) , sodium starch glycolate ( tablets only ) , and stearic acid ( tablets only ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dicyclomine relieves smooth muscle spasm of the gastrointestinal tract .
Animal studies indicate that this action is achieved via a dual mechanism : ( 1 ) a specific anticholinergic effect ( antimuscarinic ) at the acetylcholine - receptor sites with approximately 1 / 8 the milligram potency of atropine ( in vitro , guinea pig ileum ) ; and ( 2 ) a direct effect upon smooth muscle ( musculotropic ) as evidenced by dicyclomine ' s antagonism of bradykinin - and histamine - induced spasms of the isolated guinea pig ileum .
Atropine did not affect responses to these two agonists .
In vivo studies in cats and dogs showed dicyclomine to be equally potent against acetylcholine ( ACh ) - or barium chloride ( BaCI2 ) - induced intestinal spasm while atropine was at least 200 times more potent against effects of ACh than BaCI2 .
Tests for mydriatic effects in mice showed that dicyclomine was approximately 1 / 500 as potent as atropine ; antisialogogue tests in rabbits showed dicyclomine to be 1 / 300 as potent as atropine .
In man , dicyclomine is rapidly absorbed after oral administration , reaching peak values within 60 - 90 minutes .
The principal route of elimination is via the urine ( 79 . 5 % of the dose ) .
Excretion also occurs in the feces , but to a lesser extent ( 8 . 4 % ) .
Mean half - life of plasma elimination in one study was determined to be approximately 1 . 8 hours when plasma concentrations were measured for 9 hours after a single dose .
In subsequent studies , plasma concentrations were followed for up to 24 hours after a single dose , showing a secondary phase of elimination with a somewhat longer half - life .
Mean volume of distribution for a 20 mg oral dose is approximately 3 . 65 L / kg suggesting extensive distribution in tissues .
In controlled clinical trials involving over 100 patients who received drug , 82 % of patients treated for functional bowel / irritable bowel syndrome with dicyclomine hydrochloride at initial doses of 160 mg daily ( 40 mg q . i . d . ) demonstrated a favorable clinical response compared with 55 % treated with placebo ( p < . 05 ) .
In these trials , most of the side effects were typically anticholinergic in nature ( see table ) and were reported by 61 % of the patients .
Dicyclomine Hydrochloride ( 40 mg q . i . d . ) Placebo Side Effect % % Dry Mouth 33 5 Dizziness 29 2 Blurred Vision 27 2 Nausea 14 6 Light - headedness 11 3 Drowsiness 9 1 Weakness 7 1 Nervousness 6 2 Nine percent ( 9 % ) of patients were discontinued from the drug because of one or more of these side effects ( compared with 2 % in the placebo group ) .
In 41 % of the patients with side effects , side effects disappeared or were tolerated at the 160 mg daily dose without reduction .
A dose reduction from 160 mg daily to an average daily dose of 90 mg was required in 46 % of the patients with side effects who then continued to experience a favorable clinical response ; their side effects either disappeared or were tolerated .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of functional bowel / irritable bowel syndrome .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Obstructive uropathy • Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract • Severe ulcerative colitis ( See PRECAUTIONS ) • Reflux esophagitis • Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage • Glaucoma • Myasthenia gravis • Evidence of prior hypersensitivity to dicyclomine hydrochloride or other ingredients of these formulations • Infants less than 6 months of age ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients . )
• Nursing Mothers ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
If symptoms occur , the drug should be discontinued and supportive measures instituted .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Dicyclomine may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , short - term memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , coma , euphoria , decreased anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms , and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 24 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
There are reports that administration of dicyclomine syrup to infants has been followed by serious respiratory symptoms ( dyspnea , shortness of breath , breathlessness , respiratory collapse , apnea , asphyxia ) , seizures , syncope , pulse rate fluctuations , muscular hypotonia , and coma .
Death has been reported .
No causal relationship between these effects observed in infants and dicyclomine administration has been established .
DICYCLOMINE IS CONTRAINDICATED IN INFANTS LESS THAN 6 MONTHS OF AGE AND IN NURSING MOTHERS .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , and PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers and Pediatric Use ) .
Safety and efficacy of dicyclomine hydrochloride in pediatric patients have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in patients with : • Autonomic neuropathy • Hepatic or renal disease • Ulcerative colitis — large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and the use of this drug may precipitate or aggravate the serious complication of toxic megacolon ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) • Hyperthyroidism • Hypertension • Coronary heart disease • Congestive heart failure • Cardiac tachyarrhythmia • Hiatal hernia ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS : reflux esophagitis ) • Known or suspected prostatic hypertrophy .
Investigate any tachycardia before administration of dicyclomine hydrochloride , since it may increase the heart rate .
With overdosage , a curare - like action may occur ( i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis ) .
Information For Patients Dicyclomine may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Dicyclomine is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age and in nursing mothers .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTlONS : Nursing Mothers and Pediatric Use ) .
In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
If symptoms occur , the drug should be discontinued and a physician contacted .
Drug Interactions The following agents may increase certain actions or side effects of anticholinergic drugs : amantadine , antiarrhythmic agents of Class I ( e . g . , quinidine ) , antihistamines , antipsychotic agents ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , benzodiazepines , MAO inhibitors , narcotic analgesics ( e . g . , meperidine ) , nitrates and nitrites , sympathomimetic agents , tricyclic antidepressants , and other drugs having anticholinergic activity .
Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents .
Anticholinergic drugs in the presence of increased intraocular pressure may be hazardous when taken concurrently with agents such as corticosteroids .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Anticholinergic agents may affect gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs , such as slowly dissolving dosage forms of digoxin ; increased serum digoxin concentrations may result .
Anticholinergic drugs may antagonize the effects of the drugs that alter gastrointestinal motility , such as metoclopramide .
Because antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents , simultaneous use of these drugs should be avoided .
The inhibiting effects of anticholinergic drugs on gastric hydrochloric acid secretion are antagonized by agents used to treat achlorhydria and those used to test gastric secretion .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no known human data on long - term potential for carcinogenicity or mutagenicity .
Long - term studies in animals to determine carcinogenic potential are not known to have been conducted .
In studies in rats at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day , dicyclomine produced no deleterious effects on breeding , conception , or parturition .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 33 times the maximum recommended human dose based on 160 mg / day ( 3 mg / kg ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to dicyclomine .
Epidemiologic studies in pregnant women with products containing dicyclomine hydrochloride ( at doses up to 40 mg / day ) have not shown that dicyclomine increases the risk of fetal abnormalities if administered during the first trimester of pregnancy .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women at the recommended doses ( 80 - 160 mg / day ) .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , dicyclomine as indicated for functional bowel / irritable bowel syndrome should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Since dicyclomine has been reported to be excreted in human milk , DICYCLOMINE HYDROCHLORIDE IS CONTRAINDICATED IN NURSING MOTHERS .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Pediatric Use ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers . )
DICYCLOMINE IS CONTRAINDICATED IN INFANTS LESS THAN 6 MONTHS OF AGE .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Controlled clinical trials have provided frequency information for reported adverse effects of dicyclomine hydrochloride listed in a decreasing order of frequency .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
Not all of the following adverse reactions have been reported with dicyclomine hydrochloride .
Adverse reactions are included here that have been reported for pharmacologically similar drugs with anticholinergic / antispasmodic action .
Gastrointestinal : dry mouth , nausea , vomiting , constipation , bloated feeling , abdominal pain , taste loss , anorexia Central Nervous System : dizziness , light - headedness , tingling , headache , drowsiness , weakness , nervousness , numbness , mental confusion and / or excitement ( especially in elderly persons ) , dyskinesia , lethargy , syncope , speech disturbance , insomnia Ophthalmologic : blurred vision , diplopia , mydriasis , cycloplegia , increased ocular tension Dermatological / Allergic : rash , urticaria , itching , and other dermal manifestations ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis Genitourinary : urinary hesitancy , urinary retention Cardiovascular : tachycardia , palpitations Respiratory : Dyspnea , apnea , asphyxia ( see WARNINGS ) Other : decreased sweating , nasal stuffiness or congestion , sneezing , throat congestion , impotence , suppression of lactation ( see PRECAUTlONS : Nursing Mothers ) DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse of and / or dependence on dicyclomine for anticholinergic effects have been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms The signs and symptoms of overdosage are headache ; nausea ; vomiting ; blurred vision ; dilated pupils ; hot , dry skin ; dizziness ; dryness of the mouth ; difficulty in swallowing ; and CNS stimulation .
A curare - like action may occur ( i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis ) .
A 37 - year - old female reported numbness on the left side , cold fingertips , blurred vision , abdominal and flank pain , decreased appetite , dry mouth , and nervousness following ingestion of 320 mg daily ( four 20 mg tablets QID ) for four days .
These events resolved after discontinuing the dicyclomine .
Oral LD50 The acute oral LD50 of the drug is 625 mg / kg in mice .
Minimum Human Lethal Dose / Maximum Human Dose Recorded The amount of drug in a single dose that is ordinarily associated with symptoms of overdosage or that is Iikely to be life threatening , has not been defined .
The maximum human oral dose recorded was 600 mg by mouth in a 10 - month - old child and approximately 1500 mg in an adult , each of whom survived .
In three of the infants who died following administration of dicyclomine hydrochloride ( see WARNINGS ) , the blood concentrations of drug were 200 , 220 , and 505 ng / mL , respectively .
Dialysis It is not known if dicyclomine is dialyzable .
Treatment Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics , and activated charcoal .
Sedatives ( e . g . , short - acting barbiturates , benzodiazepines ) may be used for management of overt signs of excitement .
If indicated , an appropriate parenteral cholinergic agent may be used as an antidote .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE ADJUSTED TO INDIVIDUAL PATIENT NEEDS .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
The only oral dose clearly shown to be effective is 160 mg per day ( in 4 equally divided doses ) .
Since this dose is associated with a significant incidence of side effects , it is prudent to begin with 80 mg per day ( in 4 equally divided doses ) .
Depending upon the patient ' s response during the first week of therapy , the dose should be increased to 160 mg per day unless side effects limit dosage escalation .
If efficacy is not achieved within 2 weeks or side effects require doses below 80 mg per day , the drug should be discontinued .
Documented safety data are not available for doses above 80 mg daily for periods longer than 2 weeks .
The intramuscular dosage form is to be used temporarily when the patient cannot take oral medication .
Intramuscular injection is about twice as bioavailable as oral dosage forms ; consequently , the recommended intramuscular dose is 80 mg daily ( in 4 equally divided doses ) .
Oral dicyclomine hydrochloride should be started as soon as possible and the intramuscular form should not be used for periods longer than 1 or 2 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Dicyclomine Hydrochloride Capsules USP and Dicyclomine Hydrochloride Tablets USP are supplied as follows : 10 mg capsules : Clear Dark Blue cap / Clear Dark Blue body hard gelatin capsules , imprinted with white ink WATSON over 794 on cap and 10 mg on the body , in bottles of 30 and 90 .
Storage Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a well - closed container as defined in USP / NF .
Manufactured for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured by : Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cincinnati , OH 45215 USA Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp .
Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
