Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • for the treatment / management of acne • penetrates pores to reduce acne • helps prevent new acne from forming Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • if contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur when using another topical acne product at the same time .
If irritation occurs , use only one product at a time Stop use and ask a doctor • if you develop severe irritation , burning , or itching of the skin • for more severe cases , and / or if improvement is not apparent within 6 - 8 weeks , consult a health care professional • if you develop hives , swelling of eyes and mouth , blistering , or dif culty breathing , get medical help right away Sunburn Alert : This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ’ s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Inactive Ingredients Aqua / Water / Eau , Sodium Hydroxide , Lactic Acid , Glycolic Acid , Gluconolactone , Propanediol , Ethoxydiglycol , Magnesium Chloride , Glycereth - 7 Trimethyl Ether , Niacinamide , Betaine , Inositol , Citric Acid , Glycerin , Phytic Acid , Pentylene Glycol , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Caprylyl Glycol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Parfum / Fragrance , PEG - 8 , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Acetic Acid , Potassium Hydroxide .
Other Information Protect this product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
visit Glossier . com , email us at gTEAM @ glossier . com , or call toll - free 1 - 844 - 654 - 8326 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
