Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 3 . 0 % , Oxybenzone 4 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Flammable Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition – No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Directions • Shake well • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions use in well - ventilated area Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Dimethicone , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other Information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri Front Label Banana Boat Dry Balance Helps you feel dry & Fresh 50 + UVA / UVB PROTECTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + SOFT MATTE FINISH SKIN BREATHES EASY WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
