Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % , Homosalate 7 . 0 % , Octocrylene 1 . 5 % , Oxybenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Flammable Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition – No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics Directions • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . , wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Dimethicone , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SAFESUN , Mon - Fri Principal Display Panel Clear Ultramist BANANA BOAT Dry Balance SUNSCREEN SPRAY helps you feel dry & fresh 30 UVA / UVB PROTECTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 SOFT MATTE FINISH SKIN BREATHES EASY WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
