Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each 5 mL tsp ) Chlorpheniramine Maleate , 2 mg Dextromethorphan HBr , 10 mg Phenylephrine HCL , 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Cough Suppressant Nasal Decongestant Uses • For the temporary relief of runny nose , sneezing , itching of the nose or throat and itchy watery eyes due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies .
• Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation occurring with the common cold .
• Temporarily relieves nasal congestion and restores freer breathing through the nose .
Warnings Do not use • To sedate a child or to make a child sleepy .
• If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional condition or Parkinson ' s disease ) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains a MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • Heart disease • Thyroid disease • Glaucoma • High blood pressure • Diabetes • Trouble urinating due to enlargement of the prostate gland • Cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • Breathing problems or persistent or chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist : If you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • DO NOT EXCEED RECOMMENDED DOSE .
• Marked drowsiness may occur • Excitability may occur , especially in children • Avoid alcoholic beverages • Alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect .
Be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur .
• Symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • Cough persists for 1 week , tends to recur or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Do not exceed 6 doses in a 24 - hour period , unless directed by a doctor Adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours Children under 6 years of age Do not use Other information • Tamper evident feature : Do not use if inner seal is torn , broken or missing .
• Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ⁰ C ( 59 - 86 ⁰ F ) .
• Avoid excessive heat or humidity .
Inactive Ingredients Purified water , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , citric acid , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , sucrose , sucralose , cherry flavor , and FD & C red # 40 .
Contains the same active ingredients as Rycontuss ® * ANTIHISTAMINE COUGH SUPPRESSANT NASAL DECONGESTANT Cherry Flavor Manufactured in the USA for Kramer Novis , San Juan , PR 00917 .
Tel : ( 787 ) 767 - 2072 www . kramernovis . com * Rycontuss ® is a registered trademark of Okendpharma Inc .
This product is not manufactured , distributed or marketed by Okendpharma Inc .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
