Rx only DESCRIPTION : Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 2 % is a relatively selective alpha - 2 adrenergic agonist for ophthalmic use .
In solution , brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % has a clear , greenish - yellow color .
It has an osmolality of 280 - 330 mOsml / kg and a pH of 5 . 6 - 6 . 6 The structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] C11H10BrN5 • C4H6O6 Mol .
Wt .
442 . 24 ( as the tartrate salt ) Chemical Name : 5 - bromo - 6 - ( 2 - imidazolidinylideneamino ) quinoxaline L - tartrate .
CAS Number 59803 - 98 - 4 Each mL Contains : ACTIVE : Brimonidine tartrate : 0 . 2 % ( 2 mg / mL ) .
INACTIVES : Citric Acid , Polyvinyl Alcohol , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Citrate , Purified Water .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 05 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Mechanism of Action : Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is an alpha adrenergic receptor agonist .
It has a peak ocular hypotensive effect occurring at two hours post - dosing .
Fluorophotometric studies in animals and humans suggest that brimonidine tartrate has a dual mechanism of action by reducing aqueous humor production and increasing uveoscleral outflow .
Pharmacokinetics : After ocular administration of a 0 . 2 % solution , plasma concentrations peaked within 1 to 4 hours and declined with a systemic half - life of approximately 3 hours .
In humans , systemic metabolism of brimonidine is extensive .
It is metabolized primarily by the liver .
Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of the drug and its metabolites .
Approximately 87 % of an orally administered radioactive dose was eliminated within 120 hours , with 74 % found in the urine .
Clinical Evaluations : Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of lOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Brimonidine tartrate has the action of lowering intraocular pressure with minimal effect on cardiovascular and pulmonary parameters .
In comparative clinical studies with timolol 0 . 5 % , lasting up to one year , the lOP lowering effect of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % was approximately 4 - 6 mmHg compared with approximately 6 mmHg for timolol .
In these studies , both patient groups were dosed BID ; however , due to the duration of action of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , it is recommended that brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % be dosed TID .
Eight percent of subjects were discontinued from studies due to inadequately controlled intraocular pressure , which in 30 % of these patients occurred during the first month of therapy .
Approximately 20 % were discontinued due to adverse experiences .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is indicated for lowering intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
The lOP lowering efficacy of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % diminishes over time in some patients .
This loss of effect appears with a variable time of onset in each patient and should be closely monitored .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to brimonidine tartrate or any component of this medication .
It is also contraindicated in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Although brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % had minimal effect on blood pressure of patients in clinical studies , caution should be exercised in treating patients with severe cardiovascular disease .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment ; caution should be used in treating such patients .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % should be used with caution in patients with depression , cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , orthostatic hypotension or thromboangiitis obliterans .
During the studies there was a loss of effect in some patients .
The IOP - lowering efficacy observed with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % during the first month of therapy may not always reflect the long - term level of IOP reduction .
Patients prescribed IOP - lowering medication should be routinely monitored for IOP .
Information for Patients : The preservative in brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients wearing soft contact lenses should be instructed to wait at least 15 minutes after instilling brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % to insert soft contact lenses .
As with other drugs in this class , brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % may cause fatigue and / or drowsiness in some patients .
Patients who engage in hazardous activities should be cautioned of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness .
Drug Interactions : Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , or anesthetics ) should be considered .
Alpha - agonists , as a class , may reduce pulse and blood pressure .
Caution in using concomitant drugs such as beta - blockers ( ophthalmic and systemic ) , antihypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides is advised .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % in humans can lead to resulting interference with the IOP lowering effect .
No data on the level of circulating catecholamines after brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % are available .
Caution , however , is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : No compound - related carcinogenic effects were observed in either mice or rats following a 21 - month and 24 - month study , respectively .
In these studies , dietary administration of brimonidine tartrate at doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day in mice and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats achieved ~ 77 and 118 times , respectively , the plasma drug concentration estimated in humans treated with one drop brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % into both eyes 3 times per day .
Brimonidine tartrate was not mutagenic or cytogenic in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies including the Ames test , chromosomal aberation assay in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells , a host - mediated assay and cytogenic studies in mice , and dominant lethal assay .
Reproductive studies performed in rats with oral doses of 0 . 66 mg base / kg revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproductive studies performed in rats with oral doses of 0 . 66 mg base / kg revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % .
Dosing at this level produced 100 times the plasma drug concentration level seen in humans following multiple ophthalmic doses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
In animal studies , brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the fetal circulation to a limited extent .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk ; in animal studies brimonidine tartrate was excreted in breast milk .
A decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : In a well - controlled clinical study conducted in pediatric glaucoma patients ( ages 2 to 7 years ) the most commonly observed adverse events with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % dosed three times daily were somnolence ( 50 % - 83 % in patients ages 2 to 6 years ) and decreased alertness .
In pediatric patients 7 years of age or older ( > 20 kg ) , somnolence appears to occur less frequently ( 25 % ) .
The most commonly observed adverse event was somnolence .
Approximately 16 % of patients on brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution discontinued from the study due to somnolence .
The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % have not been studied in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years .
( Also refer to Adverse Reactions section ) .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse events occurring in approximately 10 - 30 % of the subjects , in descending order of incidence , included oral dryness , ocular hyperemia , burning and stinging , headache , blurring , foreign body sensation , fatigue / drowsiness , conjunctival follicles , ocular allergic reactions , and ocular pruritus .
Events occurring in approximately 3 - 9 % of the subjects , in descending order included corneal staining / erosion , photophobia , eyelid erythema , ocular ache / pain , ocular dryness , tearing , upper respiratory symptoms , eyelid edema , conjunctival edema , dizziness , blepharitis , ocular irritation , gastrointestinal symptoms , asthenia , conjunctival blanching , abnormal vision and muscular pain .
The following adverse reactions were reported in less than 3 % of the patients : lid crusting , conjunctival hemorrhage , abnormal taste , insomnia , conjunctival discharge , depression , hypertension , anxiety , palpitations / arrhythmias , nasal dryness and syncope .
The following events have been identified during post - marketing use of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , or a combination of these factors , include : bradycardia ; hypotension ; iritis ; miosis ; skin reactions ( including erythema , eyelid pruritis , rash , and vasodilation ) ; and tachycardia .
Apnea , bradycardia , hypotension , hypothermia , hypotonia , and somnolence have been reported in infants receiving brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % .
OVERDOSAGE : No information is available on overdosage in humans .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The recommended dose is one drop of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily , approximately 8 hours apart .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used , the products should be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
HOW SUPPLIED : Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 2 % is supplied sterile in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following sizes : 5 mL bottles NDC 54868 - 6287 - 0 10 mL bottles NDC 54868 - 6287 - 1 Storage : Store between 15 ° – 25 ° C ( 59 ° – 77 ° F ) .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED “ Protective Seal ” WITH YELLOW ( mortar and pestle symbol ) IS NOT INTACT .
Revised July 2008 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9104701 ( Folded ) 9104601 ( Flat ) Prod .
No . 411 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 6287 - 0 5 mL Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 2 % ( Sterile ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
