Active Ingredients Lidocaine 4 % Menthol 1 % Purpose : Topical anesthetic Topical anesthetic Uses : For the temporary relief of pain .
Warnings For external use only Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • if you are allergic to any active and inactive ingredients listed in this patch • if pouch is damaged or opened • on raw surfaces or blistered areas , open wounds , or on damaged , cut , irriated or sensitive skin • for more than one week without consulting a doctor .
When using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this package • do not allow contact with eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • do not reuse patch • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children or pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • conditions worsens • rash , itching or skin irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occurs again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breast feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years of age : • clean and dry affected area • strip off the clear protective film and place adhesive patch over affected area • leave in place for up to 8 hours • wash hands thoroughly after applying or removing patch .
Children under 12 years : ask a doctor before use .
Other Information Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Avoid direct sunilght .
Inactive Ingredients : dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , glycerin , kaolin , methylparaben , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , povidone , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , tatanium dioxide , water .
Questions or Comments ?
Please call 1 - 800 - 290 - 6816 ( Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM CST ) Dosage and Administration Lidocaine Pain Relief Patch contains 4 % Lidocaine and 1 % Menthol .
Lidocaine Pain Relief Patch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
