Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each fluid ounce ) Purpose Permethrin 280 mg ( 1 % ) ................... Lice treatment Use treats head lice Warnings For external use only Do not use • on children under 2 months of age • near the eyes • inside the nose , ear , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you are • allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic episode .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into the eyes , immediately flush with large amounts of water • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and see a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Inspect • all household members should be checked by another person for lice and / or nits ( eggs ) • use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and nits ( eggs ) • use a tool , such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils to lift and part the hair • look for tiny nits near the scalp , beginning at the back of the neck and behind the ears • small sections of hair ( 1 - 2 inches wide ) should be examined at a time • unlike dandruff , nits stick to the hair .
Dandruff should move when lightly touched .
• if either lice or nits ( eggs ) are found , treat with Nix Creme Rinse Treat • wash hair with a shampoo without conditioner .
Do not use a shampoo that contains a conditioner or a conditioner alone since this may decrease the activity of Nix .
Rinse with water .
• towel dry hair so it is damp but not wet • shake the bottle of Nix well • completely saturate the hair and scalp with Nix .
Begin to apply Nix behind the ears and at the back of the neck .
• keep Nix out of the eyes .
Protect the eyes with a washcloth or towel .
• leave Nix on the hair for 10 minutes , but no longer • rinse with warm water • towel dry hair and comb out tangles • if live lice are seen seven days or more after the first treatment , a second treatment should be given Remove Lice / Nits • remove nits by combing the hair with the special small tooth comb provided .
Remaining nits may be removed by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) , or cutting the nits out .
• use the nit comb provided and make sure the hair remains slightly damp while removing nits • if the hair dries during combing , dampen it slightly with water • part the hair into 4 sections .
Work on one section at a time .
Longer hair may take more time ( 1 - 2 hours ) .
• start at the top of the head on the section you have picked • with one hand , lift a 1 - 2 inch wide strand of hair .
Get the teeth of the comb as close to the scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from the scalp to the end of the hair .
• use clips to pin back each strand of hair after you have combed out the nits • clean the comb completely as you go .
Wipe the nits from the comb with a tissue and throw away the tissue in a sealed plastic bag to prevent the lice from coming back .
• after combing , recheck the entire head for nits and repeat combing if necessary • check the affected head daily to remove any nits that you might have missed Other information • read all the directions in the Consumer Information Insert and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients balsam canada , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , FD & C yellow no . 6 , fragrance , hydrolyzed animal protein , hydroxyethylcellulose , polyoxyethylene 10 cetyl ether , propylene glycol , stearalkonium chloride , water , isopropyl alcohol 5 . 6 g ( 20 % ) , methylparaben 56 mg ( 0 . 2 % ) , and propylparaben 22 mg ( 0 . 08 % ) Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 888 - LICE LINE ( 1 - 888 - 542 - 3546 ) , Monday to Friday , 9 AM - 5 PM EST For a description of all of our products visit us at www . nixlice . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 FL OZ Bottle Carton The # 1 Choice of Pharmacists Nix ® Permethrin LICE TREATMENT Complete Lice Treatment System Single Application Kills Lice & Their Eggs And Prevents Reinfestation For 14 days This package contains all of the following : • Nix Creme Rinse ( Permethrin ) • Metal Lice Comb with Detangling Feature • Disposable Application Gloves • Hair Salon Cape • 5 ' × 5 ' Drop Cloth Contains Everything Needed For An Application NET WT 2 FL OZ ( 59 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NIX ® Creme Rinse INDICATIONS NIX ® Creme Rinse is indicated for the treatment of infestation with head lice and their nits ( eggs ) .
This unique creme rinse leaves the hair manageable and easy to comb .
WHAT ARE HEAD LICE ?
Head lice are small insects that live and feed on the human scalp causing itching and irritation .
They range in colour from beige to black .
Lice lay eggs , called nits , on the hair shaft close to the scalp .
The nits are tiny , oval shaped and shiny , and range in colour from creamy white to brown .
Nits normally hatch in 7 to 10 days .
The adult lice cannot survive away from the head for much more than 24 hours .
HOW DOES A LICE INFESTATION SPREAD ?
Head lice spread easily , primarily by close head - to - head contact with persons who have lice and occasionally by sharing personal articles such as clothing , hats , combs , hair accessories , towels and bed linen .
WHAT TO DO IF YOU OR A MEMBER OF YOUR FAMILY HAS HEAD LICE Head lice affect millions of people each year , especially school - aged children .
They do not transmit or cause disease and are not a sign of poor personal hygiene .
A head lice infestation can be effectively treated with a topical pediculicide and ovicide treatment ( a treatment effective at destroying lice and their eggs ) such as NIX Creme Rinse .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF NIX ® CREME RINSE • Wash the hair with conditioner - free shampoo .
Do not use a conditioner .
Rinse with water and towel dry thoroughly .
• Shake NIX bottle well .
Apply a sufficient amount of NIX ( 1 / 2 to 1 bottle ) to thoroughly saturate the hair and scalp , especially behind the ears and at the base of the neck .
• Leave NIX on the hair for 10 minutes .
• Rinse NIX off hair with water .
• Towel dry hair .
• Comb hair with regular comb to remove tangles .
• Remove nits : Part hair into sections ; starting as close to the scalp as possible , remove the nits using the nit removal comb provided .
Be sure to comb to the end of the hair shaft .
The nit comb should be disinfected by soaking in hot water after each use .
Inspect full head of hair thoroughly for any stray nits .
The nit removal procedure should be repeated daily for the 7 days following treatment .
A single application is usually sufficient to eliminate a head lice infestation .
The active ingredient in NIX persists on the hair for 10 days , even after subsequent washing with a conditioner - free shampoo .
If you see live lice or nits after the first application , the residual effect should kill these .
If you still see live lice or nits on the 7 th day ( or after ) following the first application , NIX Creme Rinse should be applied a second time , as described above .
HOW TO HELP PREVENT REINFESTATION Cleaning of personal articles is also an important part of head lice management and may help prevent reinfestation .
Personal belongings including recently worn clothing , towels and bed linens should be machine washed in hot water and dried using the hot cycle of the dryer for at least 20 minutes .
Personal articles of clothing or bedding that cannot be washed may be dry cleaned or sealed in a plastic bag for a period of two weeks .
Combs and brushes should be disinfected by soaking in hot water ( above 130 ° F / 54 ° C ) for 5 to 10 minutes .
Children should be advised not to use any borrowed combs or brushes , nor wear anyone else ' s clothes , especially hats .
Inspect all family members from time to time for any new lice infestation .
If a new infestation is found treat with NIX Creme Rinse .
PRECAUTIONS General : Head lice infestation is often accompanied by itching , redness , and swelling .
Treatment with NIX may temporarily worsen these conditions .
Do not use if allergic to any of its ingredients , synthetic pyrethroids or pyrethrin , or chrysanthemums .
Discontinue use if reaction occurs .
Eye Irritation : NIX is not irritating to eyes ; however , if it should get into them , rinse eyes immediately with water .
In Case of Swallowing : Consult your doctor or Poison Control Centre immediately .
Use in Pregnant or Nursing Women : There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant or nursing women .
Consult a doctor before using this drug .
Use in Children : NIX is safe and effective in children two months of age and older .
Safety and effectiveness in children less than two months of age have not been established .
Consult your doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
To prevent accidental ingestion by children , the remaining contents of NIX should be discarded after use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical studies , occasional itching has been known to occur .
This is usually a consequence of head lice infestation itself , but may be temporarily worsened following treatment with NIX .
Other reactions which are less frequent include : stinging / burning , tingling , numbness or discomfort , redness , and swelling or rash of the scalp .
All these reactions are mild and temporary .
MEDICINAL INGREDIENT Permethrin is the active ingredient in NIX Creme Rinse ; it is present at a concentration of 1 % .
NON - MEDICINAL INGREDIENTS ( ALPHABETICALLY ) In addition , NIX Creme Rinse also contains the following non - active components : balsam Canada , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , fragrance , hydrolyzed animal protein , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , parabens , polyoxyethylene cetyl ether , propylene glycol , stearalkonium chloride and water .
Comments or Questions ?
1 - 888 - 542 - 3546 or visit us at www . insightpharma . com Distributed by : INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals Corp .
Langhorne , PA 19049 - 1749 66621 A
