Hydrochlorothiazide Capsules , USP Rx only DESCRIPTION Hydrochlorothiazide ( hydrochlorothiazide , USP 12 . 5 mg ) is the 3 , 4 - dihydro derivative of chlorothiazide .
Its chemical name is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C 7 H 8 ClN 3 O 4 S 2 ; its molecular weight is 297 . 74 ; and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP are supplied as 12 . 5 mg capsules for oral use .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate .
The hard gelatin shell consists of gelatin , titanium dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 .
The capsules are printed with black ink containing shellac , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , strong ammonia solution , black iron oxide , and potassium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrochlorothiazide blocks the reabsorption of sodium and chloride ions , and it thereby increases the quantity of sodium traversing the distal tubule and the volume of water excreted .
A portion of the additional sodium presented to the distal tubule is exchanged there for potassium and hydrogen ions .
With continued use of hydrochlorothiazide and depletion of sodium , compensatory mechanisms tend to increase this exchange and may produce excessive loss of potassium , hydrogen and chloride ions .
Hydrochlorothiazide also decreases the excretion of calcium and uric acid , may increase the excretion of iodide and may reduce glomerular filtration rate .
Metabolic toxicities associated with excessive electrolyte changes caused by hydrochlorothiazide have been shown to be dose - related .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Hydrochlorothiazide is well absorbed ( 65 % to 75 % ) following oral administration .
Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in patients with congestive heart failure .
Peak plasma concentrations are observed within 1 to 5 hours of dosing , and range from 70 to 490 ng / mL following oral doses of 12 . 5 to 100 mg .
Plasma concentrations are linearly related to the administered dose .
Concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide are 1 . 6 to 1 . 8 times higher in whole blood than in plasma .
Binding to serum proteins has been reported to be approximately 40 % to 68 % .
The plasma elimination half - life has been reported to be 6 to 15 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated primarily by renal pathways .
Following oral doses of 12 . 5 to 100 mg , 55 % to 77 % of the administered dose appears in urine and greater than 95 % of the absorbed dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug .
In patients with renal disease , plasma concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide are increased and the elimination half - life is prolonged .
When hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP are administered with food , its bioavailability is reduced by 10 % , the maximum plasma concentration is reduced by 20 % , and the time to maximum concentration increases from 1 . 6 to 2 . 9 hours .
Pharmacodynamics : Acute antihypertensive effects of thiazides are thought to result from a reduction in blood volume and cardiac output , secondary to a natriuretic effect , although a direct vasodilatory mechanism has also been proposed .
With chronic administration , plasma volume returns toward normal , but peripheral vascular resistance is decreased .
The exact mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of hydrochlorothiazide is not known .
Thiazides do not affect normal blood pressure .
Onset of action occurs within 2 hours of dosing , peak effect is observed at about 4 hours , and activity persists for up to 24 hours .
Clinical Studies : In an 87 patient 4 - week double - blind , placebo controlled , parallel group trial , patients who received hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP had reductions in seated systolic and diastolic blood pressure that were significantly greater than those seen in patients who received placebo .
In published placebo - controlled trials comparing 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg , the 12 . 5 mg dose preserved most of the placebo - corrected blood pressure reduction seen with 25 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent , or in combination with other antihypertensives .
Unlike potassium sparing combination diuretic products , hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP may be used in those patients in whom the development of hyperkalemia cannot be risked , including patients taking ACE inhibitors .
Usage in Pregnancy : The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Diuretics are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy .
Dependent edema in pregnancy resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria .
Hypersensitivity to this product or other sulfonamide derived drugs is also contraindicated .
WARNINGS Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest and diabetic patients given thiazides may require adjustment of their insulin dose .
Renal Disease : Cumulative effects of the thiazides may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
In such patients , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
PRECAUTIONS Electrolyte and Fluid Balance Status : In published studies , clinically significant hypokalemia has been consistently less common in patients who received 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide than in patients who received higher doses .
Nevertheless , periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be performed in patients who may be at risk for the development of hypokalemia .
Patients should be observed for signs of fluid or electrolyte disturbances , i . e . , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis when severe cirrhosis is present , during concomitant use of corticosteroid or adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia can provoke ventricular arrhythmias or sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by potassium supplementation or increased intake of potassium rich foods .
Dilutional hyponatremia is life - threatening and may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than salt administration , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia : Hyperuricemia or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide diuretics .
Impaired Hepatic Function : Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function .
They can precipitate hepatic coma in patients with severe liver disease .
Parathyroid Disease : Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides , and pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands , with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia , have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
Information for Patients : Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Drug interactions : When given concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics : potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs : ( oral agents and insulin ) dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs : additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins : Cholestyramine and colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent , respectively .
Corticosteroid , ACTH : intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) : possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) : possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium : generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and greatly increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with hydrochlorothiazide capsules .
Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs : In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
When hydrochlorothiazide capsules and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 mcg / mL , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to conception and throughout gestation .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3 , 000 mg and 1 , 000 mg hydrochlorothiazide / kg , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Nursing Mothers : Thiazides are excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Elderly Use : A greater blood pressure reduction and an increase in side effects may be observed in the elderly ( i . e . , > 65 years ) with hydrochlorothiazide .
Starting treatment with the lowest available dose of hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg ) is therefore recommended .
If further titration is required , 12 . 5 mg increments should be utilized .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions associated with hydrochlorothiazide have been shown to be dose related .
In controlled clinical trials , the adverse events reported with doses of 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily were comparable to placebo .
The following adverse reactions have been reported for doses of hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg and greater and , within each category , are listed in the order of decreasing severity .
Body as a whole : Weakness .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension including orthostatic hypotension ( may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates , narcotics or antihypertensive drugs ) .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , diarrhea , vomiting , sialadenitis , cramping , constipation , gastric irritation , nausea , anorexia .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , photosensitivity , fever , urticaria , rash , purpura .
Metabolic : Electrolyte imbalance ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , paresthesia , dizziness , headache , restlessness .
Renal : Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis , alopecia .
Special Senses : Transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Urogenital : Impotence .
Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe , thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn .
Postmarketing Experience : The following adverse reaction has been identified during post - approval use of hydrochlorothiazide .
Because the reaction is reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
OVERDOSAGE The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Emesis should be induced or gastric lavage performed .
Correct dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , hepatic coma and hypotension by established procedures .
If required , give oxygen or artificial respiration for respiratory impairment .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD 50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in the mouse and rat .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Control of Hypertension : The adult initial dose of hydrochlorothiazide capsules , USP is one capsule given once daily whether given alone or in combination with other antihypertensives .
Total daily doses greater than 50 mg are not recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrochlorothiazide Capsules , USP contain a white to off white powder filled in size “ 4 ” hard gelatin capsules with opaque light blue colored cap and opaque light blue colored body imprinted “ SG ” on cap and “ 146 ” on body with black ink .
They are supplied in bottles .
• bottles of 7 ( NDC 68788 - 7683 - 07 ) bottles of 30 ( NDC 68788 - 7683 - 03 ) bottles of 60 ( NDC 68788 - 7683 - 06 ) bottles of 90 ( NDC 68788 - 7683 - 09 ) bottles of 100 ( NDC 68788 - 7683 - 01 ) Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from light , moisture , freezing , - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Rx only For all medical inquiries contact : ScieGen Pharmaceuticals Inc .
1 - 855 - 724 - 3436 Manufactured by : ScieGen Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Hauppauge , NY 11788 Revised : 10 / 2020 Barcode : Repackaged By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68788 - 7683 Hydrochlorothiazide Capsules , USP 12 . 5 mg Rx only ScieGen Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Repackaged By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
