1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRADAXA is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non - valvular atrial fibrillation .
PRADAXA is a direct thrombin inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non - valvular atrial fibrillation ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For patients with CrCl > 30 mL / min : 150 mg orally , twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • For patients with CrCl 15 - 30 mL / min : 75 mg orally , twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Instruct patients not to chew , break , or open capsules ( 2 . 1 ) • Review recommendations for converting to or from other oral or parenteral anticoagulants ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • Temporarily discontinue PRADAXA before invasive or surgical procedures when possible , then restart promptly ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose For patients with creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) > 30 mL / min , the recommended dose of PRADAXA is 150 mg taken orally , twice daily , with or without food .
For patients with CrCl 15 - 30 mL / min , the recommended dose is 75 mg twice daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCL < 15 mL / min or on dialysis cannot be provided .
Instruct patients to swallow the capsules whole .
Breaking , chewing , or emptying the contents of the capsule can result in increased exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
If a dose of PRADAXA is not taken at the scheduled time , the dose should be taken as soon as possible on the same day ; the missed dose should be skipped if it cannot be taken at least 6 hours before the next scheduled dose .
The dose of PRADAXA should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose .
2 . 2 Converting from or to Warfarin When converting patients from warfarin therapy to PRADAXA , discontinue warfarin and start PRADAXA when the international normalized ratio ( INR ) is below 2 . 0 .
When converting from PRADAXA to warfarin , adjust the starting time of warfarin based on creatinine clearance as follows : • For CrCl > 50 mL / min , start warfarin 3 days before discontinuing PRADAXA .
• For CrCl 31 - 50 mL / min , start warfarin 2 days before discontinuing PRADAXA .
• For CrCl 15 - 30 mL / min , start warfarin 1 day before discontinuing PRADAXA .
• For CrCl < 15 mL / min , no recommendations can be made .
Because PRADAXA can contribute to an elevated INR , the INR will better reflect warfarin ’ s effect after PRADAXA has been stopped for at least 2 days .
2 . 3 Converting from or to Parenteral Anticoagulants For patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant , start PRADAXA 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of the parenteral drug was to have been administered or at the time of discontinuation of a continuously administered parenteral drug ( e . g . , intravenous unfractionated heparin ) .
For patients currently taking PRADAXA , wait 12 hours ( CrCl ≥ 30 mL / min ) or 24 hours ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) after the last dose of PRADAXA before initiating treatment with a parenteral anticoagulant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Surgery and Interventions If possible , discontinue PRADAXA 1 to 2 days ( CrCl ≥ 50 mL / min ) or 3 to 5 days ( CrCl < 50 mL / min ) before invasive or surgical procedures because of the increased risk of bleeding .
Consider longer times for patients undergoing major surgery , spinal puncture , or placement of a spinal or epidural catheter or port , in whom complete hemostasis may be required [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
If surgery cannot be delayed , there is an increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
This risk of bleeding should be weighed against the urgency of intervention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Bleeding risk can be assessed by the ecarin clotting time ( ECT ) .
This test is a better marker of the anticoagulant activity of dabigatran than activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) , prothrombin time ( PT ) / INR , or thrombin time ( TT ) .
If ECT is not available , the aPTT test provides an approximation of PRADAXA ’ s anticoagulant activity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules with a light blue opaque cap imprinted in black with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and a cream - colored opaque body imprinted in black with " R150 " ( 150 mg ) or " R75 " ( 75 mg ) .
Capsules : 75 mg and 150 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PRADAXA is contraindicated in patients with : • Active pathological bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction to PRADAXA ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction or anaphylactic shock ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Active pathological bleeding ( 4 ) • History of serious hypersensitivity reaction to PRADAXA ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of bleeding : PRADAXA can cause serious and , sometimes , fatal bleeding .
Promptly evaluate signs and symptoms of blood loss .
( 5 . 1 ) • Temporary discontinuation : Avoid lapses in therapy to minimize risk of stroke ( 5 . 2 ) • P - gp inducers and inhibitors : Avoid coadministration of rifampin with PRADAXA because of effects on dabigatran exposure ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Bleeding PRADAXA increases the risk of bleeding and can cause significant and , sometimes , fatal bleeding .
Risk factors for bleeding include the use of drugs that increase the risk of bleeding in general ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents , heparin , fibrinolytic therapy , and chronic use of NSAIDs ) and labor and delivery .
Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss ( e . g . , a drop in hemoglobin and / or hematocrit or hypotension ) .
Discontinue PRADAXA in patients with active pathological bleeding .
In the RE - LY ( Randomized Evaluation of Long - term Anticoagulant Therapy ) study , a life - threatening bleed ( bleeding that met one or more of the following criteria : fatal , symptomatic intracranial , reduction in hemoglobin of at least 5 grams per deciliter , transfusion of at least 4 units of blood , associated with hypotension requiring the use of intravenous inotropic agents , or necessitating surgical intervention ) occurred at an annualized rate of 1 . 5 % and 1 . 8 % for PRADAXA 150 mg and warfarin , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Temporary Discontinuation of PRADAXA Discontinuing anticoagulants , including PRADAXA , for active bleeding , elective surgery , or invasive procedures places patients at an increased risk of stroke .
Lapses in therapy should be avoided , and if anticoagulation with PRADAXA must be temporarily discontinued for any reason , therapy should be restarted as soon as possible .
5 . 3 Effect of P - gp Inducers and Inhibitors on Dabigatran Exposure The concomitant use of PRADAXA with P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) reduces exposure to dabigatran and should generally be avoided [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
P - gp inhibitors ketoconazole , verapamil , amiodarone , quinidine , and clarithromycin do not require dose adjustments .
These results should not be extrapolated to other P - gp inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( > 15 % ) are gastritis - like symptoms and bleeding ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or ( 800 ) 459 - 9906 TTY or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The RE - LY study provided safety information on the use of two doses of PRADAXA and warfarin [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The numbers of patients and their exposures are described in Table 1 .
Limited information is presented on the 110 mg dosing arm because this dose is not approved .
Table 1 Summary of Treatment Exposure in RE - LY PRADAXA 110 mg twice daily PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily Warfarin Total number treated 5983 6059 5998 Exposure > 12 months 4936 4939 5193 > 24 months 2387 2405 2470 Mean exposure ( months ) 20 . 5 20 . 3 21 . 3 Total patient - years 10 , 242 10 , 261 10 , 659 Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions and over varying lengths of time , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Drug Discontinuation in RE - LY The rates of adverse reactions leading to treatment discontinuation were 21 % for PRADAXA 150 mg and 16 % for warfarin .
The most frequent adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of PRADAXA were bleeding and gastrointestinal events ( i . e . , dyspepsia , nausea , upper abdominal pain , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , and diarrhea ) .
Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Table 2 shows the number of patients experiencing serious bleeding during the treatment period in the RE - LY study , with the bleeding rate per 100 patient - years ( % ) .
Major bleeds fulfilled one or more of the following criteria : bleeding associated with a reduction in hemoglobin of at least 2 grams per deciliter or leading to a transfusion of at least 2 units of blood , or symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ ( intraocular , intracranial , intraspinal or intramuscular with compartment syndrome , retroperitoneal bleeding , intra - articular bleeding , or pericardial bleeding ) .
A life - threatening bleed met one or more of the following criteria : fatal , symptomatic intracranial bleed , reduction in hemoglobin of at least 5 grams per deciliter , transfusion of at least 4 units of blood , associated with hypotension requiring the use of intravenous inotropic agents , or necessitating surgical intervention .
Intracranial hemorrhage included intracerebral ( hemorrhagic stroke ) , subarachnoid , and subdural bleeds .
Table 2 Bleeding Events * ( per 100 Patient - Years ) PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily N ( % ) Warfarin N ( % ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ** ) * Patients contributed multiple events and events were counted in multiple categories .
** Confidence interval Randomized patients 6076 6022 Patient - years 12 , 033 11 , 794 Intracranial hemorrhage 38 ( 0 . 3 ) 90 ( 0 . 8 ) 0 . 41 ( 0 . 28 , 0 . 60 ) Life - threatening bleed 179 ( 1 . 5 ) 218 ( 1 . 9 ) 0 . 80 ( 0 . 66 , 0 . 98 ) Major bleed 399 ( 3 . 3 ) 421 ( 3 . 6 ) 0 . 93 ( 0 . 81 , 1 . 07 ) Any bleed 1993 ( 16 . 6 ) 2166 ( 18 . 4 ) 0 . 91 ( 0 . 85 , 0 . 96 ) The risk of major bleeds was similar with PRADAXA 150 mg and warfarin across major subgroups defined by baseline characteristics , with the exception of age , where there was a trend towards a higher incidence of major bleeding on PRADAXA ( hazard ratio 1 . 2 , 95 % CI : 1 . 0 to 1 . 4 ) for patients ≥ 75 years of age .
There was a higher rate of major gastrointestinal bleeds in patients receiving PRADAXA 150 mg than in patients receiving warfarin ( 1 . 6 % vs . 1 . 1 % , respectively , with a hazard ratio vs . warfarin of 1 . 5 , 95 % CI , 1 . 2 to 1 . 9 ) , and a higher rate of any gastrointestinal bleeds ( 6 . 1 % vs . 4 . 0 % , respectively ) .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Patients on PRADAXA 150 mg had an increased incidence of gastrointestinal adverse reactions ( 35 % vs . 24 % on warfarin ) .
These were commonly dyspepsia ( including abdominal pain upper , abdominal pain , abdominal discomfort , and epigastric discomfort ) and gastritis - like symptoms ( including GERD , esophagitis , erosive gastritis , gastric hemorrhage , hemorrhagic gastritis , hemorrhagic erosive gastritis , and gastrointestinal ulcer ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions In the RE - LY study , drug hypersensitivity ( including urticaria , rash , and pruritus ) , allergic edema , anaphylactic reaction , and anaphylactic shock were reported in < 0 . 1 % of patients receiving PRADAXA .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concomitant use of PRADAXA with P - gp inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) reduces exposure to dabigatran and should generally be avoided [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
P - gp inhibitors ketoconazole , verapamil , amiodarone , quinidine , and clarithromycin do not require dose adjustments .
These results should not be extrapolated to other P - gp inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Geriatric use : Risk of bleeding increases with age ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dabigatran has been shown to decrease the number of implantations when male and female rats were treated at a dosage of 70 mg / kg ( about 2 . 6 to 3 . 0 times the human exposure at maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 300 mg / day based on area under the curve [ AUC ] comparisons ) prior to mating and up to implantation ( gestation Day 6 ) .
Treatment of pregnant rats after implantation with dabigatran at the same dose increased the number of dead offspring and caused excess vaginal / uterine bleeding close to parturition .
Although dabigatran increased the incidence of delayed or irregular ossification of fetal skull bones and vertebrae in the rat , it did not induce major malformations in rats or rabbits .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Safety and effectiveness of PRADAXA during labor and delivery have not been studied in clinical trials .
Consider the risks of bleeding and of stroke in using PRADAXA in this setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Death of offspring and mother rats during labor in association with uterine bleeding occurred during treatment of pregnant rats from implantation ( gestation Day 7 ) to weaning ( lactation Day 21 ) with dabigatran at a dose of 70 mg / kg ( about 2 . 6 times the human exposure at MRHD of 300 mg / day based on AUC comparisons ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether dabigatran is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when PRADAXA is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of PRADAXA in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in the RE - LY study , 82 % were 65 and over , while 40 % were 75 and over .
The risk of stroke and bleeding increases with age , but the risk - benefit profile is favorable in all age groups [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of PRADAXA is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
Reduce the dose of PRADAXA in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl 15 - 30 mL / min ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Dosing recommendations for patients with CrCl < 15 mL / min or on dialysis cannot be provided .
10 OVERDOSAGE Accidental overdose may lead to hemorrhagic complications .
There is no antidote to dabigatran etexilate or dabigatran .
In the event of hemorrhagic complications , initiate appropriate clinical support , discontinue treatment with PRADAXA , and investigate the source of bleeding .
Dabigatran is primarily excreted in the urine ; therefore , maintain adequate diuresis .
Dabigatran can be dialyzed ( protein binding is low ) , with the removal of about 60 % of drug over 2 to 3 hours ; however , data supporting this approach are limited .
Consider surgical hemostasis or the transfusion of fresh frozen plasma or red blood cells .
There is some experimental evidence to support the role of activated prothrombin complex concentrates ( e . g . , FEIBA ) , or recombinant Factor VIIa , or concentrates of coagulation factors II , IX or X ; however , their usefulness in clinical settings has not been established .
Consider administration of platelet concentrates in cases where thrombocytopenia is present or long - acting antiplatelet drugs have been used .
Measurement of aPTT or ECT may help guide therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name for dabigatran etexilate mesylate , a direct thrombin inhibitor , is β - Alanine , N - [ [ 2 - [ [ [ 4 - [ [ [ ( hexyloxy ) carbonyl ] amino ] iminomethyl ] phenyl ] amino ] methyl ] - 1 - methyl - 1 H - benzimidazol - 5 - yl ] carbonyl ] - N - 2 - pyridinyl - , ethyl ester , methanesulfonate .
The empirical formula is C34H41N7O5 • CH4O3S and the molecular weight is 723 . 86 ( mesylate salt ) , 627 . 75 ( free base ) .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dabigatran etexilate mesylate is a yellow - white to yellow powder .
A saturated solution in pure water has a solubility of 1 . 8 mg / mL .
It is freely soluble in methanol , slightly soluble in ethanol , and sparingly soluble in isopropanol .
The 150 mg capsule for oral administration contains 172 . 95 mg dabigatran etexilate mesylate , which is equivalent to 150 mg of dabigatran etexilate , and the following inactive ingredients : acacia , dimethicone , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , talc , and tartaric acid .
The capsule shell is composed of carrageenan , FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium dioxide , and black edible ink .
The 75 mg capsule contains 86 . 48 mg dabigatran etexilate mesylate , equivalent to 75 mg dabigatran etexilate , and is otherwise similar to the 150 mg capsule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dabigatran and its acyl glucuronides are competitive , direct thrombin inhibitors .
Because thrombin ( serine protease ) enables the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin during the coagulation cascade , its inhibition prevents the development of a thrombus .
Both free and clot - bound thrombin , and thrombin - induced platelet aggregation are inhibited by the active moieties .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics At recommended therapeutic doses , dabigatran etexilate prolongs the aPTT , ECT , and TT .
With an oral dose of 150 mg twice daily the median peak aPTT is approximately 2 x control .
Twelve hours after the last dose the median aPTT is 1 . 5 x control , with less than 10 % of patients exceeding 2 x control .
In the RE - LY trial , the median ( 10 th to 90 th percentile ) trough aPTT in patients receiving the 150 mg dose was 52 ( 40 to 76 ) seconds .
The median ( 10 th to 90 th percentile ) trough ECT in patients receiving the 150 mg dose was 63 ( 44 to 103 ) seconds .
The INR test is relatively insensitive to the activity of dabigatran and may or may not be elevated in patients on PRADAXA .
When converting a patient from PRADAXA to warfarin therapy , the INR is unlikely to be useful until at least 2 days after discontinuation of PRADAXA .
Cardiac Electrophysiology No prolongation of the QTc interval was observed with dabigatran etexilate at doses up to 600 mg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Dabigatran etexilate mesylate is absorbed as the dabigatran etexilate ester .
The ester is then hydrolyzed , forming dabigatran , the active moiety .
Dabigatran is metabolized to four different acyl glucuronides and both the glucuronides and dabigatran have similar pharmacological activity .
Pharmacokinetics described here refer to the sum of dabigatran and its glucuronides .
Dabigatran displays dose - proportional pharmacokinetics in healthy subjects and patients in the range of doses from 10 to 400 mg .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of dabigatran following oral administration of dabigatran etexilate is approximately 3 to 7 % .
Dabigatran etexilate is a substrate of the efflux transporter P - gp .
After oral administration of dabigatran etexilate in healthy volunteers , Cmax occurs at 1 hour post - administration in the fasted state .
Coadministration of PRADAXA with a high - fat meal delays the time to Cmax by approximately 2 hours but has no effect on the bioavailability of dabigatran ; PRADAXA may be administered with or without food .
The oral bioavailability of dabigatran etexilate increases by 75 % when the pellets are taken without the capsule shell compared to the intact capsule formulation .
PRADAXA capsules should therefore not be broken , chewed , or opened before administration .
Distribution Dabigatran is approximately 35 % bound to human plasma proteins .
The red blood cell to plasma partitioning of dabigatran measured as total radioactivity is less than 0 . 3 .
The volume of distribution of dabigatran is 50 to 70 L . Dabigatran pharmacokinetics are dose proportional after single doses of 10 to 400 mg .
Given twice daily , dabigatran ’ s accumulation factor is approximately two .
Elimination Dabigatran is eliminated primarily in the urine .
Renal clearance of dabigatran is 80 % of total clearance after intravenous administration .
After oral administration of radiolabeled dabigatran , 7 % of radioactivity is recovered in urine and 86 % in feces .
The half - life of dabigatran in healthy subjects is 12 to 17 hours .
Metabolism After oral administration , dabigatran etexilate is converted to dabigatran .
The cleavage of the dabigatran etexilate by esterase - catalyzed hydrolysis to the active principal dabigatran is the predominant metabolic reaction .
Dabigatran is not a substrate , inhibitor , or inducer of CYP450 enzymes .
Dabigatran is subject to conjugation forming pharmacologically active acyl glucuronides .
Four positional isomers , 1 - O , 2 - O , 3 - O , and 4 - O - acylglucuronide exist , and each accounts for less than 10 % of total dabigatran in plasma .
Renal Impairment An open , parallel - group single - center study compared dabigatran pharmacokinetics in healthy subjects and patients with mild to moderate renal impairment receiving a single dose of PRADAXA 150 mg .
Based on pharmacokinetic modeling , estimated exposure to dabigatran increases with the severity of renal function impairment ( Table 3 ) .
Similar findings were observed in the RE - LY trial .
Table 3 Estimated Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Dabigatran by Renal FunctionRenal Function CrCl ( mL / min ) Increase in AUC Increase in Cmax t1 / 2 ( h ) Normal 80 1 x 1 x 13 Mild 50 1 . 5 x 1 . 1 x 15 Moderate 30 3 . 2 x 1 . 7 x 18 Hepatic Impairment Administration of PRADAXA in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) showed a large inter - subject variability , but no evidence of a consistent change in exposure or pharmacodynamics .
Drug Interactions Impact of Other Drugs on Dabigatran P - gp Inducers Rifampin : Rifampin 600 mg once daily for 7 days followed by a single dose of dabigatran decreased its AUC and Cmax by 66 % and 67 % , respectively .
By Day 7 after cessation of rifampin treatment , dabigatran exposure was close to normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
P - gp Inhibitors In studies with the P - gp inhibitors ketoconazole , amiodarone , verapamil , and quinidine , the time to peak , terminal half - life , and mean residence time of dabigatran were not affected .
Any observed changes in Cmax and AUC are described below .
Dronedarone : Exposure to dabigatran is higher when it is administered with dronedarone than when it is administered alone ( 1 . 7 - to 2 - fold ) .
Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole increased dabigatran AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax values by 138 % and 135 % , respectively , after a single dose of 400 mg , and 153 % , and 149 % , respectively , after multiple daily doses of 400 mg .
Verapamil : When dabigatran etexilate was coadministered with oral verapamil , the Cmax and AUC of dabigatran were increased .
The extent of increase depends on the formulation of verapamil and timing of administration .
If verapamil is present in the gut when dabigatran is taken , it will increase exposure to dabigatran with the greatest increase observed when a single dose of immediate - release verapamil is given one hour prior to dabigatran ( AUC increased by a factor of 2 . 4 ) .
If verapamil is given 2 hours after dabigatran , the increase in AUC is negligible .
In the population pharmacokinetics study from RE - LY , no important changes in dabigatran trough levels were observed in patients who received verapamil .
Amiodarone : When dabigatran etexilate was coadministered with a single 600 mg oral dose of amiodarone , the dabigatran AUC and Cmax increased by 58 % and 50 % , respectively .
The increase in exposure was mitigated by a 65 % increase in the renal clearance of dabigatran in the presence of amiodarone .
The increase in renal clearance may persist after amiodarone is discontinued because of amiodarone ’ s long half - life .
In the population pharmacokinetics study from RE - LY , no important changes in dabigatran trough levels were observed in patients who received amiodarone .
Quinidine : Quinidine was given as 200 mg dose every 2 hours up to a total dose of 1000 mg .
Dabigatran etexilate was given over 3 consecutive days , the last evening dose on Day 3 with or without quinidine pre - dosing .
Concomitant quinidine administration increased dabigatran ’ s AUC and Cmax by 53 % and 56 % , respectively .
Clarithromycin : Coadministered clarithromycin had no impact on the exposure to dabigatran .
Other Drugs Clopidogrel : When dabigatran etexilate was given concomitantly with a loading dose of 300 mg or 600 mg clopidogrel , the dabigatran AUC and Cmax increased by approximately 30 % and 40 % , respectively .
The concomitant administration of dabigatran etexilate and clopidogrel resulted in no further prolongation of capillary bleeding times compared to clopidogrel monotherapy .
When comparing combined treatment and the respective mono - treatments , the coagulation measures for dabigatran ’ s effect ( aPTT , ECT , and TT ) remained unchanged , and inhibition of platelet aggregation ( IPA ) , a measurement of clopidogrel ’ s effect , remained unchanged .
Enoxaparin : Enoxaparin 40 mg given subcutaneously for 3 days with the last dose given 24 hours before a single dose of PRADAXA had no impact on the exposure to dabigatran or the coagulation measures aPTT , ECT , or TT .
Diclofenac , Ranitidine , and Digoxin : None of these drugs alters exposure to dabigatran .
In RE - LY , dabigatran plasma samples were also collected .
The concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors , H2 antagonists , and digoxin did not appreciably change the trough concentration of dabigatran .
Impact of Dabigatran on Other Drugs In clinical studies exploring CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , P - gp and other pathways , dabigatran did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of amiodarone , atorvastatin , clarithromycin , diclofenac , clopidogrel , digoxin , pantoprazole , or ranitidine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dabigatran was not carcinogenic when administered by oral gavage to mice and rats for up to 2 years .
The highest doses tested ( 200 mg / kg / day ) in mice and rats were approximately 3 . 6 and 6 times , respectively , the human exposure at MRHD of 300 mg / day based on AUC comparisons .
Dabigatran was not mutagenic in in vitro tests , including bacterial reversion tests , mouse lymphoma assay and chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , and the in vivo micronucleus assay in rats .
In the rat fertility study with oral gavage doses of 15 , 70 , and 200 mg / kg , males were treated for 29 days prior to mating , during mating up to scheduled termination , and females were treated 15 days prior to mating through gestation Day 6 .
No adverse effects on male or female fertility were observed at 200 mg / kg or 9 to 12 times the human exposure at MRHD of 300 mg / day based on AUC comparisons .
However , the number of implantations decreased in females receiving 70 mg / kg , or 3 times the human exposure at MRHD based on AUC comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The clinical evidence for the efficacy of PRADAXA was derived from RE - LY ( Randomized Evaluation of Long - term Anticoagulant Therapy ) , a multi - center , multi - national , randomized parallel group trial comparing two blinded doses of PRADAXA ( 110 mg twice daily and 150 mg twice daily ) with open - label warfarin ( dosed to target INR of 2 to 3 ) in patients with non - valvular , persistent , paroxysmal , or permanent atrial fibrillation and one or more of the following additional risk factors : • Previous stroke , transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) , or systemic embolism • Left ventricular ejection fraction < 40 % • Symptomatic heart failure , ≥ New York Heart Association Class 2 • Age ≥ 75 years • Age ≥ 65 years and one of the following : diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease ( CAD ) , or hypertension The primary objective of this study was to determine if PRADAXA was non - inferior to warfarin in reducing the occurrence of the composite endpoint , stroke ( ischemic and hemorrhagic ) and systemic embolism .
The study was designed to ensure that PRADAXA preserved more than 50 % of warfarin ’ s effect as established by previous randomized , placebo - controlled trials of warfarin in atrial fibrillation .
Statistical superiority was also analyzed .
A total of 18 , 113 patients were randomized and followed for a median of 2 years .
The patient ’ s mean age was 71 . 5 years and the mean CHADS2 score was 2 . 1 .
The patient population was 64 % male , 70 % Caucasian , 16 % Asian , and 1 % black .
Twenty percent of patients had a history of a stroke or TIA and 50 % were Vitamin K antagonist ( VKA ) naïve , defined as less than 2 months total lifetime exposure to a VKA .
Thirty - two percent of the population had never been exposed to a VKA .
Concomitant diseases of patients in this trial included hypertension 79 % , diabetes 23 % , and CAD 28 % .
At baseline , 40 % of patients were on aspirin and 6 % were on clopidogrel .
For patients randomized to warfarin , the mean percentage of time in therapeutic range ( INR 2 to 3 ) was 64 % ; the mean percentages of time INR measurements were greater than 4 or less than 1 . 5 were 2 % and 5 % , respectively .
Relative to warfarin and to PRADAXA 110 mg twice daily , PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily significantly reduced the primary composite endpoint of stroke and systemic embolism ( see Table 4 and Figure 1 ) .
Table 4 First Occurrence of Stroke or Systemic Embolism in the RE - LY Study PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily PRADAXA 110 mg twice daily Warfarin Patients randomized 6076 6015 6022 Patients ( % ) with events 134 ( 2 . 2 % ) 183 ( 3 % ) 202 ( 3 . 4 % ) Hazard ratio vs . warfarin ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 65 ( 0 . 52 , 0 . 81 ) 0 . 90 ( 0 . 74 , 1 . 10 ) P - value for superiority 0 . 0001 0 . 3 Hazard ratio vs . PRADAXA 110 mg ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 72 ( 0 . 58 , 0 . 90 ) P - value for superiority 0 . 004 Figure 1 Kaplan - Meier Curve Estimate of Time to First Stroke or Systemic Embolism [ MULTIMEDIA ] The contributions of the components of the composite endpoint , including stroke by subtype , are shown in Table 5 .
The treatment effect was primarily a reduction in stroke .
PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily significantly reduced both ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes relative to warfarin .
Table 5 Strokes and Systemic Embolism in the RE - LY Study PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily Warfarin Hazard ratio vs . warfarin ( 95 % CI ) Patients randomized 6076 6022 Stroke 122 186 0 . 64 ( 0 . 51 , 0 . 81 ) Ischemic stroke 103 134 0 . 75 ( 0 . 58 , 0 . 97 ) Hemorrhagic stroke 12 45 0 . 26 ( 0 . 14 , 0 . 49 ) Systemic embolism 13 21 0 . 61 ( 0 . 30 , 1 . 21 ) The efficacy of PRADAXA 150 mg twice daily was generally consistent across major subgroups ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 Stroke and Systemic Embolism Hazard Ratios by Baseline Characteristics [ MULTIMEDIA ] Centers were ranked post hoc by the percentage of time that warfarin - treated patients were in therapeutic range ( INR 2 to 3 ) .
Findings for stroke / systemic embolism , all - cause mortality , and major bleeds are shown for centers above and below the median level of INR control in Table 6 .
The benefits of PRADAXA 150 mg relative to warfarin were most apparent in patients enrolled at centers with INR control below the median .
Table 6 Center INR Control in the RE - LY Study Centers with INR control below the median of 67 % Centers with INR control above the median of 67 % Stroke / systemic embolism 0 . 57 ( 0 . 42 , 0 . 76 ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 55 , 1 . 05 ) All - cause mortality 0 . 78 ( 0 . 66 , 0 . 93 ) 1 . 01 ( 0 . 84 , 1 . 23 ) Major bleed 0 . 82 ( 0 . 68 , 0 . 99 ) 1 . 08 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 31 ) The risk of myocardial infarction was numerically greater in patients who received PRADAXA ( 1 . 5 % for 150 mg dose ) than in those who received warfarin ( 1 . 1 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PRADAXA 75 mg capsules have a light blue opaque cap imprinted with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and a cream - colored opaque body imprinted with " R75 " .
The color of the imprinting is black .
The capsules are supplied in the packages listed : • NDC 0597 - 0107 - 54 Unit of use bottle of 60 capsules • NDC 0597 - 0107 - 60 Blister package containing 60 capsules ( 10 x 6 capsule blister cards ) PRADAXA 150 mg capsules have a light blue opaque cap imprinted with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and a cream - colored opaque body imprinted with " R150 " .
The color of the imprinting is black .
The capsules are supplied in the packages listed : • NDC 0597 - 0135 - 54 Unit of use bottle of 60 capsules • NDC 0597 - 0135 - 60 Blister package containing 60 capsules ( 10 x 6 capsule blister cards ) Bottles Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Once opened , the product must be used within 30 days .
Keep the bottle tightly closed .
Store in the original package to protect from moisture .
Blisters Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Store in the original package to protect from moisture .
Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See Medication Guide 17 . 1 Instructions for Patients • Tell patients to take PRADAXA exactly as prescribed .
• Remind patients not to discontinue PRADAXA without talking to the health care provider who prescribed it .
• Advise patients not to chew or break the capsules before swallowing them and not to open the capsules and take the pellets alone ( e . g . , sprinkled over food or into beverages ) .
17 . 2 Bleeding Inform patients that they may bleed more easily , may bleed longer , and should call their health care provider for any signs or symptoms of bleeding .
Instruct patients to seek emergency care right away if they have any of the following , which may be a sign or symptom of serious bleeding : • Unusual bruising ( bruises that appear without known cause or that get bigger ) • Pink or brown urine • Red or black , tarry stools • Coughing up blood • Vomiting blood , or vomit that looks like coffee grounds Instruct patients to call their health care provider or to get prompt medical attention if they experience any signs or symptoms of bleeding : • Pain , swelling or discomfort in a joint • Headaches , dizziness , or weakness • Reoccurring nose bleeds • Unusual bleeding from gums • Bleeding from a cut that takes a long time to stop • Menstrual bleeding or vaginal bleeding that is heavier than normal 17 . 3 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Instruct patients to call their health care provider if they experience any signs or symptoms of dyspepsia or gastritis : • Dyspepsia ( upset stomach ) , burning , or nausea • Abdominal pain or discomfort • Epigastric discomfort , GERD ( gastric indigestion ) 17 . 4 Invasive or Surgical Procedures Instruct patients to inform their health care provider that they are taking PRADAXA before any invasive procedure ( including dental procedures ) is scheduled .
17 . 5 Concomitant Medications Ask patients to list all prescription medications , over - the - counter medications , or dietary supplements they are taking or plan to take so their health care provider knows about other treatments that may affect bleeding risk ( e . g . , aspirin or NSAIDs ) or dabigatran exposure .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Copyright 2011 Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 75461 - 02 IT5060BC072011 75457 - 02 IT5400B MEDICATION GUIDE PRADAXA ( pra dax ´ a ) ( dabigatran etexilate mesylate ) capsules Read this Medication Guide before you start taking PRADAXA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about PRADAXA ?
• PRADAXA can cause bleeding which can be serious , and sometimes lead to death .
This is because PRADAXA is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
• You may have a higher risk of bleeding if you take PRADAXA and : • are over 75 years old • have kidney problems • have stomach or intestine bleeding that is recent or keeps coming back , or you have a stomach ulcer • take other medicines that increase your risk of bleeding , including : Tell your doctor if you take any of these medicines .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above .
• aspirin or aspirin containing products • long - term ( chronic ) use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • warfarin sodium ( Coumadin ® , Jantoven ® ) • a medicine that contains heparin • clopidogrel ( Plavix ® ) • prasugrel ( Effient ® ) • PRADAXA can increase your risk of bleeding because it lessens the ability of your blood to clot .
While you take PRADAXA : Call your doctor or get medical help right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of bleeding : Take PRADAXA exactly as prescribed .
Do not stop taking PRADAXA without first talking to the doctor who prescribes it for you .
Stopping PRADAXA may increase your risk of a stroke .
PRADAXA may need to be stopped , if possible , for one or more days before any surgery , or medical or dental procedure .
If you need to stop taking PRADAXA for any reason , talk to the doctor who prescribed PRADAXA for you to find out when you should stop taking it .
Your doctor will tell you when to start taking PRADAXA again after your surgery or procedure .
See " What are the possible side effects of PRADAXA ? "
for more information about side effects .
• you may bruise more easily • it may take longer for any bleeding to stop What is PRADAXA ?
PRADAXA is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation .
With atrial fibrillation , part of the heart does not beat the way it should .
This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke .
PRADAXA is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
It is not known if PRADAXA is safe and works in children .
Who should not take PRADAXA ?
Do not take PRADAXA if you : • currently have certain types of abnormal bleeding .
Talk to your doctor , before taking PRADAXA if you currently have unusual bleeding .
• have had a serious allergic reaction to PRADAXA .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure .
What should I tell my doctor before taking PRADAXA ?
Before you take PRADAXA , tell your doctor if you : • have kidney problems • have ever had bleeding problems • have ever had stomach ulcers • have any other medical condition • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PRADAXA will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PRADAXA passes into your breast milk .
Tell all of your doctors and dentists that you are taking PRADAXA .
They should talk to the doctor who prescribed PRADAXA for you , before you have any surgery , or medical or dental procedure .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines may affect the way PRADAXA works .
Certain medicines may increase your risk of bleeding .
See " What is the most important information I should know about PRADAXA ? "
Especially tell your doctor if you take : Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
• rifampin ( Rifater , Rifamate , Rimactane , Rifadin ) How should I take PRADAXA ?
• Take PRADAXA exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Do not take PRADAXA more often than your doctor tells you to .
• You can take PRADAXA with or without food .
• Swallow PRADAXA capsules whole .
Do not break , chew , or empty the pellets from the capsule .
• If you miss a dose of PRADAXA , take it as soon as you remember .
If your next dose is less than 6 hours away , skip the missed dose .
Do not take two doses of PRADAXA at the same time .
• Your doctor will decide how long you should take PRADAXA .
Do not stop taking PRADAXA without first talking with your doctor .
Stopping PRADAXA may increase your risk of stroke .
• Do not run out of PRADAXA .
Refill your prescription before you run out .
If you plan to have surgery , or a medical or a dental procedure , tell your doctor and dentist that you are taking PRADAXA .
You may have to stop taking PRADAXA for a short time .
See " What is the most important information I should know about PRADAXA ? "
• If you take too much PRADAXA , go to the nearest hospital emergency room or call your doctor or the Poison Control Center right away .
What are the possible side effects of PRADAXA ?
PRADAXA can cause serious side effects .
• See " What is the most important information I should know about PRADAXA ? "
• Allergic Reactions .
In some people , PRADAXA can cause symptoms of an allergic reaction , including hives , rash , and itching .
Tell your doctor or get medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction with PRADAXA : • chest pain or chest tightness • swelling of your face or tongue • trouble breathing or wheezing • feeling dizzy or faint Common side effects of PRADAXA include : • indigestion , upset stomach , or burning • stomach pain Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of PRADAXA .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PRADAXA ?
• Store PRADAXA at room temperature between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
After opening the bottle , use PRADAXA within 30 days .
Safely throw away any unused PRADAXA after 30 days .
• Store PRADAXA in the original package to keep it dry .
Keep the bottle tightly closed .
Keep PRADAXA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about PRADAXA Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use PRADAXA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your PRADAXA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about PRADAXA .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about PRADAXA that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . PRADAXA . com or call 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 or ( TTY ) 1 - 800 - 459 - 9906 .
What are the ingredients in PRADAXA ?
Active ingredient : dabigatran etexilate mesylate Inactive ingredients : acacia , dimethicone , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , talc , and tartaric acid .
The capsule shell is composed of carrageenan , FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium dioxide , and black edible ink .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Revised : March 2011 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Copyright 2011 Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 75461 - 02 IT5060BC072011 75457 - 02 IT5400B Repackaged by Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Coumadin ® is a registered trademark for Bristol - Myers Squibb Jantoven ® is a registered trademark for USL Pharma Plavix ® is a registered trademark of sanofi aventis Effient ® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company Principal Display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
