DESCRIPTION Clonidine hydrochloride is a centrally acting alpha - agonist hypotensive agent available as tablets for oral administration in three dosage strengths : 0 . 1 mg , 0 . 2 mg and 0 . 3 mg .
The 0 . 1 mg tablet is equivalent to 0 . 087 mg of the free base .
Clonidine hydrochloride is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound .
The chemical name is 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenylamino ) - 2 - imidazoline hydrochloride .
The following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine hydrochloride is an odorless , bitter , white , crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol .
Each tablet for oral administration contains ammonium chloride , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium ( Type A ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
Clonidine hydrochloride acts relatively rapidly .
The patient ' s blood pressure declines within 30 to 60 minutes after an oral dose , the maximum decrease occurring within 2 to 4 hours .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact ; therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
Acute studies with clonidine hydrochloride in humans have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % to 20 % ) of cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance : at a 45 ° tilt there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic response to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a reevaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates growth hormone release in both children and adults , but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
PharmacokineticsThe plasma level of clonidine peaks in approximately 3 to 5 hours and the plasma half - life ranges from 12 to 16 hours .
The half - life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Following oral administration about 40 to 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
Clonidine hydrochloride may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS WithdrawalPatients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride , the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride .
Because children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting , they may be particularly susceptible to hypertensive episodes resulting from abrupt inability to take medication .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralIn patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to transdermal clonidine , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride therapy may be associated with the development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction to transdermal clonidine , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
Clonidine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with severe coronary insufficiency , conduction disturbances , recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease or chronic renal failure .
Perioperative UseAdministration of clonidine hydrochloride should be continued to within four hours of surgery and resumed as soon as possible thereafter .
Blood pressure should be carefully monitored during surgery and additional measures to control blood pressure should be available if required .
Information for PatientsPatients should be cautioned against interruption of clonidine therapy without their physician ' s advice .
Patients who engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as operating machinery or driving , should be advised of a possible sedative effect of clonidine .
They should also be informed that this sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
Drug InteractionsClonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedatives .
If a patient receiving clonidine hydrochloride is also taking tricyclic antidepressants , the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced , necessitating an increase in the clonidine dosage .
Due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block , caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction , e . g . digitalis , calcium channel blockers and beta - blockers .
Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats ( see Toxicology ) .
ToxicologyIn several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride , a dose dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer .
Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid .
In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats , eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before , and periodically after , the start of clonidine therapy .
In 353 of these 908 patients , the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer .
Except for some dryness of the eyes , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and , according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle , retinal function was unchanged .
In combination with amitriptyline , clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityChronic dietary administration of clonidine was not carcinogenic to rats ( 132 weeks ) or mice ( 78 weeks ) dosed , respectively , at up to 46 or 70 times the maximum recommended daily human dose as mg / kg ( 9 or 6 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by clonidine doses as high as 150 mcg / kg ( about 3 times the MRDHD ) .
In a separate experiment , fertility of female rats appeared to be affected at dose levels of 500 to 2000 mcg / kg ( 10 to 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 2 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category CReproduction studies performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRDHD ) of clonidine hydrochloride produced no evidence of teratogenic or embryotoxic potential in rabbits .
In rats , however , doses as low as 1 / 3 the oral MRDHD ( 1 / 15 the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) of clonidine were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the oral MRDHD ) when dams were treated on gestation days 6 to 15 .
Increases in resorptions were observed at much higher dose levels ( 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 4 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in mice and rats treated on gestation days 1 to 14 ( lowest dose employed in that study was 500 mcg / kg ) .
No adequate , well controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersAs clonidine hydrochloride is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clonidine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of twelve have not been established ( see Warnings on Withdrawal ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which appear to be dose related ) are dry mouth , occurring in about 40 of 100 patients ; drowsiness , about 33 in 100 ; dizziness , about 16 in 100 ; constipation and sedation , each about 10 in 100 .
The following less frequent adverse experiences have also been reported in patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and causal relationship has not been established .
Body as a Whole : Weakness , about 10 in 100 patients ; fatigue , about 4 in 100 ; headache and withdrawal syndrome each about 1 in 100 .
Also reported were pallor ; a weakly positive Coombs ' test ; increased sensitivity to alcohol ; and fever .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic symptoms , about 3 in 100 patients ; palpitations and tachycardia , and bradycardia , each about 5 in 1 , 000 .
Syncope , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , congestive heart failure , and electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . sinus node arrest , functional bradycardia , high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) have been reported rarely .
Rare cases of sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System : Nervousness and agitation , about 3 in 100 patients ; mental depression , about 1 in 100 and insomnia , about 5 in 1 , 000 .
Other behavioral changes , vivid dreams or nightmares , restlessness , anxiety , visual and auditory hallucinations and delirium have rarely been reported .
Dermatological : Rash , about 1 in 100 patients ; pruritus , about 7 in 1 , 000 ; hives , angioneurotic edema and urticaria , about 5 in 1 , 000 ; alopecia , about 2 in 1 , 000 .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting , about 5 in 100 patients ; anorexia and malaise , each about 1 in 100 ; mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests , about 1 in 100 ; hepatitis , parotitis , constipation , pseudo - obstruction , and abdominal pain , rarely .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity , impotence and loss of libido , about 3 in 100 patients ; nocturia , about 1 in 100 ; difficulty in micturition , about 2 in 1 , 000 ; urinary retention , about 1 in 1 , 000 .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia , rarely .
Metabolic : Weight gain , about 1 in 100 patients ; gynecomastia , about 1 in 1 , 000 ; transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase , rarely .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle or joint pain , about 6 in 1 , 000 and leg cramps , about 3 in 1 , 000 .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa was rarely reported .
Ophthalmological : Dryness of eyes , burning of the eyes , and blurred vision were reported .
OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Clonidine overdosage may result in the rapid development of CNS depression ; therefore , induction of vomiting with ipecac syrup is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated following recent and / or large ingestions .
Administration of activated charcoal and / or a cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date involved a 28 - year old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semicoma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / mL after 1 hour , 190 ng / mL after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / mL after 2 hours , and 120 ng / mL after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AdultsThe dose of clonidine hydrochloride must be adjusted according to the patient ' s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a general guide to its administration .
Initial Dose0 . 1 mg tablet twice daily ( morning and bedtime ) .
Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Maintenance DoseFurther increments of 0 . 1 mg per day may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved .
Taking the larger portion of the oral daily dose at bedtime may minimize transient adjustment effects of dry mouth and drowsiness .
The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 6 mg per day given in divided doses .
Studies have indicated that 2 . 4 mg is the maximum effective daily dose , but doses as high as this have rarely been employed .
Renal ImpairmentDosage must be adjusted according to the degree of impairment , and patients should be carefully monitored .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED Clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP are available containing 0 . 2 mg of clonidine hydrochloride , USP .
The 0 . 2 mg tablets are white , round scored tablets debossed with MYLAN 186 .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 15 - NDC 16590 - 267 - 15 Bottles of 30 - NDC 16590 - 267 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP for Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 REVISED FEBRUARY 2008 CLON : R14 Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 PACKAGE LABEL - CLONIDINE 0 . 2 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
