ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Niacinamide 2 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Biosaccharide Gum - 1 , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Soy Isoflavones , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Butylene Glycol , Arginine , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Allantoin , Carbomer , Xanthan Gum , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Adenosine , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Panthenol , Human Oliqopeptide - 1 PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
You must immediately discontinue using the product if any of the following symptoms occur , and since a prolonged usage will aggressive the symptoms , you must consult with a doctor specializing in dermatology .
A .
If abnormal symptoms such as red spots , swelling , itchiness and / or irritation occur .
B .
If the applied experience the above symptoms due to direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not use on areas with various wounds , eczema and / or dermatitis those who are sensitive to adhesive band - aids or poultice must take caution when using it .
Keep away from your eyes and be sure to clean it immediately if it ever gets into an eye .
3 .
Safety cautions in storage and handling .
A . Use immediately after you open the product .
B . Do not store in high or low temperature locations and areas exposed to direct sunlight .
C . Do not reuse a product that has already been used before .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep away from the hands of infants and children .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children .
Keep away from the hands of infants and children .
How to use How to use : 1 .
Clean the face with toner after cleansing 2 .
Take the mask sheet out of the pouch 3 .
Unfold the mask and pat down on the face 4 .
Leave it for 20 mins , and then remove it 5 .
Absorb remaining solution left on face by patting with fingers DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : Unfold the mask and pat down on the face PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
