Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each mL contains 260 mg of salicylic acid in a film - forming vehicle consisting of acrylates copolymer , isopropyl alcohol , n - Butyl acetate , polyvinyl butyral , and trimethyl pentanyl diisobutyrate .
The pharmacologic activity of this product is generally attributed to the keratolytic activity of salicylic acid , which is incorporated into a polyacrylic , film - forming vehicle designed to cover the wart without the need for a bandage .
The structural formula of salicylic acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Although the exact mode of action for salicylic acid in the treatment of warts is unknown , its activity appears to be associated with its keratolytic action , which results in mechanical removal of epidermal cells infected with wart viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : This product is indicated for the topical treatment and removal of common warts and plantar warts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
Patients with diabetes or impaired blood circulation should not use this product .
This product also should not be used on moles , birthmarks , and unusual warts with hair growing from them , or warts on the face .
WARNINGS : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
This product is flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
If contact with eyes or mucous membranes occurs , immediately flush with water for 15 minutes .
This product should not be allowed to contact normal skin surrounding the wart site , since localized irritation may occur .
Treatment should be discontinued if excessive irritation occurs .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Localized irritation may occur if this product is applied to normal skin surrounding the wart ; however irritation may normally be controlled by temporarily discontinuing use and by applying the medication only to the wart site when treatment is resumed .
To report a serious adverse event , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Prior to applying this product , soak wart in warm water for five minutes .
Remove any loose tissue by gently rubbing with a wash cloth , emery board , or pumice stone .
Dry the wart site thoroughly .
Using the brush applicator supplied , apply this product twice to the entire wart surface , allowing the first application to dry before applying the second .
Continue treatment once or twice a day or as directed by a physician .
Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin .
Clinically visible improvement normally occurs during the first or second week of therapy .
Resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of this product ’ s use , though some warts may take longer to remove .
HOW SUPPLIED : 10 mL bottles , NDC 52187 - 526 - 10 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Manufactured for : KMM Pharmaceuticals , LLC 1000 N . West Street Suite 1200 , # 1021 Wilmington , DE 19801 v1 Rev . 10 / 2017 827630 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
