Drug Facts Active Ingredient Zinc Oxide 20 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see other information ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Due to the nature of mineral formulations , separation may occur .
Shake tube before use .
Apply a smooth , even layer to face , neck and top of hands before sun exposure and as needed .
Children under 6 months of age , ask a doctor .
Other Information Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures incluing : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Inactive Ingredients Organic juices of aloe barbadensis ( organic aloe juice ) [ 1 ] , pyrus malus ( organic apple juice ) null , vitis vinifera ( organic white grape juice ) null , cocos nucifera ( organic coconut oil ) null , caprylic / capric triglycerides , sorbitan stearate , ricinus communis ( castor seed oil ) , hydrogenated methyl abietate , polyglyceryl - 10 laurate , magnesium sulfate , helianthus annuus ( organic sunflower seed oil ) null , simmondsia chinensis ( organic jojoba seed oil ) null , tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , magnesium ascorbyl phosphate ( Vitamin C ) , citrus limonum ( lemon extract ) , iron oxides , phenethyl alcohol , ethylhexylglycerin , citrus reticulata ( mandarin ) & citrus aurantium ( petitgrain ) pure essential oils .
[ 1 ] certified organic ingredient Questions ?
www . juicebeauty . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 110 mL Tube Label SPORT juice BEAUTY ® THE ORGANIC SOLUTION ™ SPF 30 Sport Moisturizer MADE WITH CERTIFIED ORGANIC INGREDIENTS Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) Antioxidant Rich 3 . 75 fl oz e 110 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
