Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Camphor 10 % Topical analgesic Menthol 10 % Topical analgesic Uses For application on to intact unbroken skin to help achieve the temporary relief of sinus pain .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes , wounds , damaged or irritated skin .
Do not bandage or cover with wrap or apply any heat or heating pad to area after use .
Wash hands with soap and water after using this product .
Stop use and Ask doctor if Condition worsens .
Severe skin irritation occurs .
Pain persists for more than 4 days .
Pain clears up and then recurs after a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding This product has not been tested in pregnant or breast - feeding women .
Consult the advice of your doctor before using this product in these situations .
Keep out of reach of children Not recommended for use in children 12 years old or younger .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control immediately .
If exposure to eyes , then wash copiously with cold water and consult a doctor .
Components are not certified to be free of nut allergens .
Do not use if allergic to nuts or peanuts or if allergic to any of the components without testing .
Use on a small area for the first time .
If rash or itching develops then discontinue use .
If symptoms persist then consult a medical professional .
If the intended area of application or joint is hot , red , bruised or swollen then do not apply this liniment and immediately seek professional medical help .
Inactive Ingredients Eucalyptus Oil ; Castor Oil ; Directions for Use For Topical use .
Apply 2 ml - 3 ml into forehead and over cheek sinuses and rub in gently until it vanishes .
May apply up to twice daily .
Do not exceed recommended frequency of application .
Do not apply heat after application .
This product will produce a soothing relief and sensation of cooling in the area of application .
Questions / Comments 703 - 404 - 5905 Manufactured for / by ActivPower Inc . , Delaware , U . S . A under license from ActivPower Inc . 13505 Dulles Technology Drive , Suite 1 A , Herndon , VA 20171 , USA ; PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 ml Bottle Label IRx SinoRel Topical Sinus Pain Analgesic Relief Doctor created .
Clinic proven Time tested Herbal Relief Net Quantity : 50 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
