Rx Only Active Ingredients : in a base consisting of polyethylene glycol , purified water , saccharin , cetyldimethylethylammonium bromide , flavoring and color Benzocaine 14 . 0 % Butamben 2 . 0 % Tetracaine Hydrochloride 2 . 0 % Action The onset of Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel produced anesthesia is rapid ( approximately 30 seconds ) and the duration of anesthesia is typically 30 - 60 minutes , when used as directed .
This effect is due to the rapid onset , but short duration of action of Benzocaine coupled with the slow onset , but extended duration of Tetracaine HCl and bridged by the intermediate action of Butamben .
It is believed that all of these agents act by reversibly blocking nerve conduction .
Speed and duration of action is determined by the ability of the agent to be absorbed by the mucous membrane and nerve sheath and then to diffuse out , and ultimately be metabolized ( primarily by plasma cholinesterases ) to inert metabolites which are excreted in the urine .
Indications Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel is a topical anesthetic indicated for the production of anesthesia of all accessible mucous membrane except the eyes .
Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel is indicated for use to control pain and for use for surgical or endoscopic procedures , or other procedures in the ear , nose , mouth , pharynx , larynx , trachea , bronchi , and esophagus .
It may also be used for vaginal or rectal procedures where feasible .
Dosage and Administration Only a limited quantity of Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel is required for anesthesia .
Dispense 200 mg of gel ( a bead approximately 1 / 4 to 1 / 2 inches long ) by gently depressing the pump .
Dispensing a bead of gel in excess of 400 mg is contraindicated .
Spread thinly and evenly over the desired area using a cotton swab .
In the unlikely event that a Cetacaine Gel pump jar wo n't dispense , attempt the following : • Using a gloved hand , depress the pump fully using the thumb and middle finger .
• While depressed , cover the center orifice with the index finger .
• With the orifice still covered , slowly allow the pump to return to its original starting position .
• Repeat until Cetacaine Gel is dispensed ( usually about 3 - 4 repeated attempts ) .
An appropriate pediatric dosage has not been established for Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel .
Dosages should be reduced in the debilitated elderly , acutely ill , and very young patients .
Do not use Cetacaine Gel to treat infants or children younger than 2 years .
Tissue need not be dried prior to application of Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel .
Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should be applied directly to the site where pain control is required .
Anesthesia is produced in approximately 30 seconds with an approximate duration of thirty to sixty minutes .
Each 200 mg dose of Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel contains 28 mg of benzocaine , 4 mg of butamben and 4 mg of tetracaine HCl .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Cetacaine and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Unpredictable adverse reactions ( i . e . hypersensitivity , including anaphylaxis ) are extremely rare .
Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic .
The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing .
This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self - medication , which is contraindicated .
If rash , urticaria , edema , or other manifestations of allergy develop during use , the drug should be discontinued .
To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction , Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision .
Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic effect may also result from prolonged contact .
Use in Pregnancy Safe use of Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel has not been established with respect to possible adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should not be used during early pregnancy , unless in the judgement of a physician , the potential benefits outweigh the unknown hazards .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel is used .
Contraindications Do not use Cetacaine Gel to treat infants or children younger than 2 years .
Cetacaine is not suitable and should never be used for injection .
Do not use on the eyes .
To avoid excessive systemic absorption , Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should not be applied to large areas of denuded or inflamed tissue .
Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should not be administered to patients who are hypersensitive to any of its ingredients or to patients known to have cholinesterase deficiencies .
Tolerance may vary with status of the patient .
Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel should not be used under dentures or cotton rolls , as retention of the active gel ingredients under a denture or cotton roll could possibly cause an escharotic effect .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when using Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel .
How Supplied Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel ( Strawberry ) , 32 g jar NDC 10223 - 0217 - 3 Item # 0217 Cetacaine Topical Anesthetic Gel ( Mint ) , 32 g jar NDC 10223 - 0221 - 1 Item # 0221 Made in USA Cetylite Industries , Inc .
Pennsauken , NJ 08110 www . cetacaine . com Rev . 10 / 18 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 32 g Jar Box - Strawberry NDC 10223 - 0217 - 3 Item # 0217 Cetacaine ® Topical Anesthetic GEL ( 14 % Benzocaine , 2 % Butamben , and 2 % Tetracaine Hydrochloride ) Indicated for anesthesia of all accessible mucous membrane except the eyes .
Strawberry Flavor Net Contents : 32 g Rev . 02 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 32 g Jar Box - Mint NDC 10223 - 0221 - 1 Item # 0221 Cetacaine ® Topical Anesthetic GEL ( 14 % Benzocaine , 2 % Butamben , and 2 % Tetracaine Hydrochloride ) Indicated for anesthesia of all accessible mucous membrane except the eyes .
Cool Mint Flavor Net Contents : 32 g Rev . 02 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
