100 mg and 400 mg Rx Only DESCRIPTION Ethambutol hydrochloride is an oral chemotherapeutic agent which is specifically effective against actively growing microorganisms of the genus Mycobacterium , including M . tuberculosis .
Ethambutol hydrochloride is a white , crystalline powder , It is freely soluble in water ; soluble in alcohol and in methanol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C10H24N2O2 • 2 HCl M . W . 277 . 23 ( + ) - 2 , 2 ’ ( Ethylenediimino ) - di - 1 - butanol dihydrochloride Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 100 mg or 400 mg Ethambutol Hydrochloride .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , magnesium stearate , povidone and talc .
Film coating contains : ethyl cellulose , hypromellose , macrogol , propylene glycol , talc and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ethambutol hydrochloride , following a single oral dose of 25 mg / kg of body weight , attains a peak of 2 to 5 mcg / mL in serum 2 to 4 hours after administration .
When the drug is administered daily for longer periods of time at this dose , serum levels are similar .
The serum level of ethambutol falls to undetectable levels by 24 hours after the last dose except in some patients with abnormal renal function .
The intercellular concentrations of erythrocytes reach peak values approximately twice those of plasma and maintain this ratio throughout the 24 hours .
During the 24 - hour period following oral administration of ethambutol approximately 50 percent of the initial dose is excreted unchanged in the urine , while an additional 8 to 15 percent appears in the form of metabolites .
The main path of metabolism appears to be an initial oxidation of the alcohol to an aldehydic intermediate , followed by conversion to a dicarboxylic acid .
From 20 to 22 percent of the initial dose is excreted in the feces as unchanged drug .
No drug accumulation has been observed with consecutive single daily doses of 25 mg / kg in patients with normal kidney function , although marked accumulation has been demonstrated in patients with renal insufficiency .
Ethambutol diffuses into actively growing mycobacterium cells such as tubercle bacilli .
Ethambutol appears to inhibit the synthesis of one or more metabolites , thus causing impairment of cell metabolism , arrest of multiplication , and cell death .
No cross resistance with other available antimycobacterial agents has been demonstrated .
Ethambutol has been shown to be effective against strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis but does not seem to be active against fungi , viruses , or other bacteria .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains previously unexposed to ethambutol have been uniformly sensitive to concentrations of 8 or less mcg / mL , depending on the nature of the culture media .
When ethambutol has been used alone for treatment of tuberculosis , tubercle bacilli from these patients have developed resistance to ethambutol hydrochloride by in - vitro susceptibility tests ; the development of resistance has been unpredictable and appears to occur in a step - like manner .
No cross resistance between ethambutol and other antituberculous drugs has been reported .
Ethambutol has reduced the incidence of the emergence of mycobacterial resistance to isoniazid when both drugs have been used concurrently .
An agar diffusion microbiologic assay , based upon inhibition of Mycobacterium smegmatis ( ATCC 607 ) may be used to determine concentrations of ethambutol in serum and urines .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY Toxicological studies in dogs on high prolonged doses produced evidence of myocardial damage and failure , and depigmentation of the tapetum lucidum of the eyes , the significance of which is not known .
Degenerative changes in the central nervous system , apparently not dose - related , have also been noted in dogs receiving ethambutol hydrochloride over a prolonged period .
In the rhesus monkey , neurological signs appeared after treatment with high doses given daily over a period of several months .
These were correlated with specific serum levels of ethambutol and with definite neuroanatomical changes in the central nervous system .
Focal interstitial carditis was also noted in monkeys which received ethambutol hydrochloride in high doses for a prolonged period .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ethambutol hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis .
It should not be used as the sole antituberculous drug , but should be used in conjunction with at least one other antituberculous drug .
Selection of the companion drug should be based on clinical experience , considerations of comparative safety and appropriate in - vitro susceptibility studies .
In patients who have not received previous antituberculous therapy , i . e . , initial treatment , the most frequently used regimens have been the following : • Ethambutol plus isoniazid • Ethambutol plus isoniazid plus streptomycin .
In patients who have received previous antituberculous therapy , mycobacterial resistance to other drugs used in initial therapy is frequent .
Consequently , in such retreatment patients , ethambutol should be combined with at least one of the second line drugs not previously administered to the patient and to which bacterial susceptibility has been indicated by appropriate in - vitro studies .
Antituberculous drugs used with ethambutol have included cycloserine , ethionamide , pyrazinamide , viomycin and other drugs .
Isoniazid , aminosalicylic acid , and streptomycin have also been used in multiple drug regimens .
Alternating drug regimens have also been utilized .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ethambutol hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who are known to be hypersensitive to this drug .
It is also contraindicated in patients with known optic neuritis unless clinical judgement determines that it may be used .
Ethambutol hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who are unable to appreciate and report visual side effects or changes in vision ( e . g . , young children , unconscious patients ) .
WARNINGS Ethambutol hydrochloride may produce decreases in visual acuity which appear to be due to optic neuritis .
This effect may be related to dose and duration of treatment .
This effect is generally reversible when administration of the drug is discontinued promptly .
However , irreversible blindness has been reported .
( See PRECAUTIONSand ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Liver toxicities including fatalities have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Baseline and periodic assessment of hepatic function should be performed .
PRECAUTIONS Ethambutol hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under thirteen years of age since safe conditions for use have not been established .
Patients with decreased renal function need the dosage reduced as determined by serum levels of ethambutol , since the main path of excretion of this drug is by the kidneys .
Because this drug may have adverse effects on vision , physical examination should include ophthalmoscopy , finger perimetry and testing of color discrimination .
In patients with visual defects such as cataracts , recurrent inflammatory conditions of the eye , optic neuritis , and diabetic retinopathy , the evaluation of changes in visual acuity is more difficult , and care should be taken to be sure the variations in vision are not due to the underlying disease conditions .
In such patients , consideration should be given to relationship between benefits expected and possible visual deterioration since evaluation of visual changes is difficult .
( For recommended procedures , see next paragraphs under ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
As with any potent drug , baseline and periodic assessment of organ system functions , including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic , should be performed .
Drug Interactions The results of a study of coadministration of ethambutol hydrochloride ( 50 mg / kg ) with an aluminum hydroxide containing antacid to 13 patients with tuberculosis showed a reduction of mean serum concentrations and urinary excretion of ethambutol of approximately 20 % and 13 % , respectively , suggesting that the oral absorption of ethambutol may be reduced by these antacid products .
It is recommended to avoid concurrent administration of ethambutol with aluminum hydroxide containing antacids for at least 4 hours following ethambutol administration .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
There are reports of ophthalmic abnormalities occurring in infants born to women on antituberculous therapy that included ethambutol hydrochloride .
Ethambutol hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Ethambutol hydrochloride has been shown to be teratogenic in pregnant mice and rabbits when given in high doses .
When pregnant mice or rabbits were treated with high doses of ethambutol hydrochloride , fetal mortality was slightly but not significantly ( P > 0 . 05 ) increased .
Female rats treated with ethambutol hydrochloride displayed slight but insignificant ( P > 0 . 05 ) decreases in fertility and litter size .
In fetuses born of mice treated with high doses of ethambutol hydrochloride during pregnancy , a low incidence of cleft palate , exencephaly and abnormality of the vertebral column were observed .
Minor abnormalities of the cervical vertebra were seen in the newborn of rats treated with high doses of ethambutol hydrochloride during pregnancy .
Rabbits receiving high doses of ethambutol hydrochloride during pregnancy gave birth to two fetuses with monophthalmia , one with a shortened right forearm accompanied by bilateral wrist - joint contracture and one with hare lip and cleft palate .
Nursing Mothers Ethambutol hydrochloride is excreted into breast milk .
The use of ethambutol hydrochloride should be considered only if the expected benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the infant .
Pediatric Use Ethambutol hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under thirteen years of age since safe conditions for use have not been established .
Geriatric Use There are limited data on the use of ethambutol hydrochloride in the elderly .
One study of 101 patients , 65 years and older , on multiple drug antituberculosis regimens included 94 patients on ethambutol hydrochloride .
No differences in safety or tolerability were observed in these patients compared with that reported in adults in general .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ethambutol hydrochloride may produce decreases in visual acuity , including irreversible blindness , which appear to be due to optic neuritis .
Optic neuropathy including optic neuritis or retrobulbar neuritis occurring in association with ethambutol therapy may be characterized by one or more of the following events : decreased visual acuity , scotoma , color blindness , and / or visual defect .
These events have also been reported in the absence of a diagnosis of optic or retrobulbar neuritis .
Patients should be advised to report promptly to their physician any change of visual acuity .
The change in visual acuity may be unilateral or bilateral and hence each eye must be tested separately and both eyes tested together .
Testing of visual acuity should be performed before beginning ethambutol hydrochloride therapy and periodically during drug administration , except that it should be done monthly when a patient is on a dosage of more than 15 mg per kilogram per day .
Snellen eye charts are recommended for testing of visual acuity .
Studies have shown that there are definite fluctuations of one or two lines of the Snellen chart in the visual acuity of many tuberculous patients not receiving ethambutol .
The following table may be useful in interpreting possible changes in visual acuity attributable to ethambutol .
Initial Snellen Reading Reading Indicating Significant Decrease Significant Number of Lines Decrease Number of Points 20 / 13 20 / 25 3 12 20 / 15 20 / 25 2 10 20 / 20 20 / 30 2 10 20 / 25 20 / 40 2 15 20 / 30 20 / 50 2 20 20 / 40 20 / 70 2 30 20 / 50 20 / 70 1 20 In general , changes in visual acuity less than those indicated under " Significant Number of Lines " and " Decrease Number of Points " , may be due to chance variation , limitations of the testing method or physiologic variability .
Conversely , changes in visual acuity equaling or exceeding those under " Significant Number of Lines " and " Decrease Number of Points " indicate the need for retesting and careful evaluation of the patient ’ s visual status .
If careful evaluation confirms the magnitude of visual change and fails to reveal another cause , ethambutol should be discontinued and the patient reevaluated at frequent intervals .
Progressive decreases in visual acuity during therapy must be considered to be due to ethambutol .
If corrective glasses are used prior to treatment , these must be worn during visual acuity testing .
During 1 to 2 years of therapy , a refractive error may develop which must be corrected in order to obtain accurate test results .
Testing the visual acuity through a pinhole eliminates refractive error .
Patients developing visual abnormality during ethambutol treatment may show subjective visual symptoms before , or simultaneously with , the demonstration of decreases in visual acuity , and all patients receiving ethambutol should be questioned periodically about blurred vision and other subjective eye symptoms .
Recovery of visual acuity generally occurs over a period of weeks to months after the drug has been discontinued .
Some patients have received ethambutol hydrochloride again after such recovery without recurrence of loss of visual acuity .
Other adverse reactions reported include : hypersensitivity , anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reaction , dermatitis , erythema multiforme , pruritus , and joint pain ; anorexia , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset , and abdominal pain ; fever , malaise , headache , and dizziness ; mental confusion , disorientation , and possible hallucinations ; thrombocytopenia , leucopenia , and neutropenia .
Numbness and tingling of the extremities due to peripheral neuritis have been reported .
Elevated serum uric acid levels occur and precipitation of acute gout has been reported .
Pulmonary infiltrates , with or without eosinophilia , also have been reported during ethambutol hydrochloride therapy .
Liver toxicities , including fatalities , have been reported .
( See WARNINGS ) .
Since ethambutol hydrochloride is recommended for therapy in conjunction with one or more other antituberculous drugs , these changes may be related to the concurrent therapy .
Hypersensitivity syndrome consisting of cutaneous reaction ( such as rash or exfoliative dermatitis ) , eosinophilia , and one or more of the following : hepatitis , pneumonitis , nephritis , myocarditis , pericarditis .
Fever and lymphadenopathy may be present .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ethambutol hydrochloride should not be used alone , in initial treatment or in retreatment .
Ethambutol hydrochloride should be administered on a once every 24 - hour basis only .
Absorption is not significantly altered by administration with food .
Therapy , in general , should be continued until bacteriological conversion has become permanent and maximal clinical improvement has occurred .
Ethambutol hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under thirteen years of age since safe conditions for use have not been established .
Initial Treatment In patients who have not received previous antituberculous therapy , administer ethambutol hydrochloride 15 mg / kg ( 7 mg / lb ) of body weight , as a single oral dose once every 24 hours .
In the more recent studies , isoniazid has been administered concurrently in a single , daily , oral dose .
Retreatment In patients who have received previous antituberculous therapy , administer ethambutol hydrochloride 25 mg / kg ( 11 mg / lb ) of body weight , as a single oral dose once every 24 hours .
Concurrently administer at least one other antituberculous drug to which the organisms have been demonstrated to be susceptible by appropriate in - vitro tests .
Suitable drugs usually consist of those not previously used in the treatment of the patient .
After 60 days of ethambutol hydrochloride administration , decrease the dose to 15 mg / kg ( 7 mg / lb ) of body weight , and administer as a single oral dose once every 24 hours .
During the period when a patient is on a daily dose of 25 mg / kg , monthly eye examinations are advised .
See Table for easy selection of proper weight - dose tablet ( s ) .
Weight - Dose Table15 mg / kg ( 7 mg / lb ) Schedule Weight Range Daily Dose Pounds Kilograms ----------------- In mg Under 85 lbs .
Under 37 kg ----------------- 500 85 – 94 . 5 37 – 43 ----------------- 600 95 – 109 . 5 43 – 50 ----------------- 700 110 – 124 . 5 50 – 57 ----------------- 800 125 – 139 . 5 57 – 64 ----------------- 900 140 – 154 . 5 64 – 71 ----------------- 1000 155 – 169 . 5 71 – 79 ----------------- 1100 170 – 184 . 5 79 – 84 ----------------- 1200 185 – 199 . 5 84 – 90 ----------------- 1300 200 – 214 . 5 90 – 97 ----------------- 1400 215 and Over Over 97 ----------------- 1500 25 mg / kg ( 11 mg / lb ) Schedule Under 85 lbs .
Under 38 kg ----------------- 900 85 – 92 . 5 38 – 42 ----------------- 1000 93 – 101 . 5 42 – 45 . 5 ----------------- 1100 102 – 109 . 5 45 . 5 – 50 ----------------- 1200 110 – 118 . 5 50 – 54 ----------------- 1300 119 – 128 . 5 54 – 58 ----------------- 1400 129 – 136 . 5 58 – 62 ----------------- 1500 137 – 146 . 5 62 – 67 ----------------- 1600 147 – 155 . 5 67 – 71 ----------------- 1700 156 – 164 . 5 71 – 75 ----------------- 1800 165 – 173 . 5 75 – 79 ----------------- 1900 174 – 182 . 5 79 – 83 ----------------- 2000 183 – 191 . 5 83 – 87 ----------------- 2100 192 – 199 . 5 87 – 91 ----------------- 2200 200 – 209 . 5 91 – 95 ----------------- 2300 210 – 218 . 5 95 – 99 ----------------- 2400 219 and Over Over 99 ----------------- 2500 HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 5142 NDC : 50090 - 5142 - 0 100 TABLET in a BOTTLE Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States MADE IN INDIA Revised : June 2021 ID # 267598 ETHAMBUTOL HYDROCHLORIDE TABLET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
