Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • for this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours • soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Caution if prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or war soaks should not be used by individuals with diabeted except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredients None Tamper Evident Packaging Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mulitated .
epsom salt magnesium sulfate U . S . P . MgSO4 7H2O saline laxative / soaking aid • for external use as a soaking aid • for minor sprains and bruises Caution : if prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
DIRECTIONS : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day .
For less intensive soak , use 1 or 2 cupfuls in a bath .
Use warm water for best results .
We ' re committed to your satisfaction and guarantee the quality of this product .
Contact us at 1 - 877 - 932 - 7948 , or www . supervalu - ourownbrands . com Please have package available .
DISTRIBUTED BY UNFI PROVIDENCE , RI 02908 USA principal display panel Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
ZIPPER PLACEMENT NDC 41163 - 602 - 07 EQUALINE epsom salt magnesium sulfate U . S . P . MgSO4 7H20 saline laxative / soaking aid • gluten free • saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation • soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
