Xurea ( Urea 39 % Cream ) Rx only For Topical Dermatological Use Only Rx Only - Caution : Federal Law restricts this product to sale by , or on the order of a licensed healthcare practitioner .
Xurea Description Xurea Cream is a potent keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for skin and / or nails .
Each gram of Xurea Cream contains : ACTIVE : 39 % Urea in a cream base of : INACTIVES : Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Propylene Glycol , Dimethicone , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Chamomilla Recutita ( Chamomile ) Extract , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin .
CHEMISTRY Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Xurea - Clinical Pharmacology Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas .
Urea also hydrates and gently dissolves the intercellular matrix of the nail plate , which can result in the softening and eventual debridement of the nail plate .
PHARMACOKINETICS The mechanism of action of topically applied Urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS AND USES For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or prurient debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
Contraindications Xurea Cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
Do not use on areas of broken skin .
Precautions Stop use and ask a doctor if redness or irritation develops .
After applying this medication , wash hands and unaffected areas thoroughly .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category B Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Xurea Cream should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether or not this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Xurea Cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear on discontinuing the medication .
Xurea - Dosage and Administration Apply Xurea Cream to affected skin two to three times per day as needed or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail tissue two to three times per day or as directed by a physician .
Best applied to affected areas immediately after showering and just before bedtime .
How is Xurea Supplied Xurea ( 39 % Urea Cream ) is supplied in : 8 oz ( 227 gm ) Jar NDC 72678 - 034 - 01 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured for : NATIONAL BIO GREEN SCIENCES LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Branchburg , NJ 08876 Rx only PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 227 gm Jar Label Rx only NDC 72678 - 034 - 01 Xurea UREA 39 % CREAM Smooth - Spreadable - Moisturizing Xurea ’ s high amount of urea exhibits intensive keratolyic and peeling effects .
Thoroughly nourishes , helping to prevent cracks , and drying of your skin .
FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Net WT .
8 OZ ( 227 gm ) Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
