Active Ingredient Diphenhydramine HCl 2 % Zinc Acetate 0 . 1 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Skin protectant Uses For the temporary relief of itching and pain associated with insect bites minor burns sunburn minor skin irritations minor cuts scrapes rashes due to poison ivy , poison oak and poison sumac dries the oozing and weeping of poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use on large areas of the body or with any other product containing Diphenhydramine , even one taken by mouth .
Ask a doctor before use on chicken pox or measles .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older , apply to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily , or as directed by a doctor .
children under 2 years of age , consult a doctor .
do not use more often than directed Other information store between 20 C to 25 C ( 69 F to 77 F ) see end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Cetyl Alcohol , Mineral Oil , Polysorbate 60 , Stearic Acid , Glyceryl sterate , Carbomer 940 , Cholesterol , Methylparaben , Myristoyl / Palmitoyl Oxostearamide / Arachamide MEA , propylparaben .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 855 - ATOPALM ATOPALM ITCH RELIEF CREAM with US Patented MLE Technology MAXIMUM STRENGTH THERAPY TOPICAL ANALGESIC HISTAMINE BLOCKER SKIN PROTECTANT For fast , temporary relief of pain and itching from insect bites and skin irritations from poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac , dries up poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac .
Leaves skin looking visibly healthier , softer , smoother .
ATOPALM Histamine Blocker Topical Analgesic Skin protectant Net Wt .
1 oz / 28 . 3 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
