Rx Only DESCRIPTION Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long - chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane .
The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3 - carboxy - 2 ( R ) - hydroxy - N , N , N - trimethyl - 1 - propanaminium , inner salt .
Levocarnitine is a white crystalline , hygroscopic powder .
It is readily soluble in water , hot alcohol , and insoluble in acetone .
The specific rotation of levocarnitine is between – 29 ° and – 32 ° .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levocarnitine injection , USP is a sterile aqueous solution containing 1 g of levocarnitine per 5 mL vial , and water for Injection q . s .
The pH is adjusted to 6 to 6 . 5 with hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Levocarnitine is a naturally occurring substance required in mammalian energy metabolism .
It has been shown to facilitate long - chain fatty acid entry into cellular mitochondria , thereby delivering substrate for oxidation and subsequent energy production .
Fatty acids are utilized as an energy substrate in all tissues except the brain .
In skeletal and cardiac muscle , fatty acids are the main substrate for energy production .
Primary systemic carnitine deficiency is characterized by low concentrations of levocarnitine in plasma , RBC , and / or tissues .
It has not been possible to determine which symptoms are due to carnitine deficiency and which are due to an underlying organic acidemia , as symptoms of both abnormalities may be expected to improve with levocarnitine .
The literature reports that carnitine can promote the excretion of excess organic or fatty acids in patients with defects in fatty acid metabolism and / or specific organic acidopathies that bioaccumulate acylCoA esters . 1 - 6 Secondary carnitine deficiency can be a consequence of inborn errors of metabolism .
Levocarnitine may alleviate the metabolic abnormalities of patients with inborn errors that result in accumulation of toxic organic acids .
Conditions for which this effect has been demonstrated are : glutaric aciduria II , methyl malonic aciduria , propionic acidemia , and medium chain fatty acylCoA dehydrogenase deficiency . 7 , 8 Autointoxication occurs in these patients due to the accumulations of acylCoA compounds that disrupt intermediary metabolism .
The subsequent hydrolysis of the acylCoA compound to its free acid results in acidosis which can be life - threatening .
Levocarnitine clears the acylCoA compound by formation of acylcarnitine , which is quickly excreted .
Carnitine deficiency is defined biochemically as abnormally low plasma concentrations of free carnitine , less than 20 μmol / L at one week post term and may be associated with low tissue and / or urine concentrations .
Further , this condition may be associated with a plasma concentration ratio of acylcarnitine / levocarnitine greater than 0 . 4 or abnormally elevated concentrations of acylcarnitine in the urine .
In premature infants and newborns , secondary deficiency is defined as plasma levocarnitine concentrations below age - related normal concentrations .
PHARMACOKINETICS In a relative bioavailability study in 15 healthy adult male volunteers levocarnitine tablets were found to be bio - equivalent to levocarnitine oral solution .
Following 4 days of dosing with 6 tablets of levocarnitine 330 mg b . i . d . or 2 g of levocarnitine oral solution twice daily , the maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) was about 80 μmol / L and the time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) occurred at 3 . 3 hours .
The plasma concentration profiles of levocarnitine after a slow 3 minute intravenous bolus dose of 20 mg / kg of levocarnitine were described by a two - compartment model .
Following a single intravenous administration , approximately 76 % of the levocarnitine dose was excreted in the urine during the 0 to 24 hour interval .
Using plasma concentrations uncorrected for endogenous levocarnitine , the mean distribution half life was 0 . 585 hours and the mean apparent terminal elimination half life was 17 . 4 hours .
The absolute bioavailability of levocarnitine from the two oral formulations of levocarnitine , calculated after correction for circulating endogenous plasma concentrations of levocarnitine , was 15 . 1 % ± 5 . 3 % for levocarnitine tablets and 15 . 9 % ± 4 . 9 % for levocarnitine oral solution .
Total body clearance of levocarnitine ( Dose / AUC including endogenous baseline concentrations ) was a mean of 4 . 00 L / h .
Levocarnitine was not bound to plasma protein or albumin when tested at any concentration or with any species including the human . 9 METABOLISM AND EXCRETION In a pharmacokinetic study where five normal adult male volunteers received an oral dose of [ 3 H - methyl ] - L - carnitine following 15 days of a high carnitine diet and additional carnitine supplement , 58 % to 65 % of the administered radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and feces in 5 to 11 days .
Maximum concentration of [ 3 H - methyl ] - L - carnitine in serum occurred from 2 . 0 to 4 . 5 hr after drug administration .
Major metabolites found were trimethylamine N - oxide , primarily in urine ( 8 % to 49 % of the administered dose ) and [ 3 H ] - γ - butyrobetaine , primarily in feces ( 0 . 44 % to 45 % of the administered dose ) .
Urinary excretion of levocarnitine was about 4 % to 8 % of the dose .
Fecal excretion of total carnitine was less than 1 % of the administered dose . 10 After attainment of steady state following 4 days of oral administration of levocarnitine tablets ( 1980 mg every 12 hours ) or oral solution ( 2000 mg every 12 hours ) to 15 healthy male volunteers , the mean urinary excretion of levocarnitine during a single dosing interval ( 12 hours ) was about 9 % of the orally administered dose ( uncorrected for endogenous urinary excretion ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the acute and chronic treatment of patients with an inborn error of metabolism which results in secondary carnitine deficiency .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , laryngeal edema , and bronchospasm have been reported following levocarnitine administration , mostly in patients with end stage renal disease who are undergoing dialysis .
Some reactions occurred within minutes after intravenous administration of levocarnitine .
If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue levocarnitine treatment and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Consider the risks and benefits of re - administering levocarnitine to individual patients following a severe reaction .
If the decision is made to re - administer the product , monitor patients for a reoccurrence of signs and symptoms of a severe hypersensitivity reaction .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Reports of INR increase with the use of warfarin have been observed .
It is recommended that INR levels be monitored in patients on warfarin therapy after the initiation of treatment with levocarnitine or after dose adjustments .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mutagenicity tests performed in Salmonella typhimurium , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Schizosaccharomyces pombe indicate that levocarnitine is not mutagenic .
No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of levocarnitine .
Pregnancy Reproductive studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 3 . 8 times the human dose on the basis of surface area and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to levocarnitine .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Levocarnitine supplementation in nursing mothers has not been specifically studied .
Studies in dairy cows indicate that the concentration of levocarnitine in milk is increased following exogenous administration of levocarnitine .
In nursing mothers receiving levocarnitine , any risks to the child of excess carnitine intake need to be weighed against the benefits of levocarnitine supplementation to the mother .
Consideration may be given to discontinuation of nursing or of levocarnitine treatment .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience Transient nausea and vomiting have been observed .
Less frequent adverse reactions are body odor , nausea , and gastritis .
An incidence for these reactions is difficult to estimate due to the confounding effects of the underlying pathology .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported : Neurologic Reactions : Seizures have been reported to occur in patients , with or without pre - existing seizure activity , receiving either oral or intravenous levocarnitine .
In patients with pre - existing seizure activity , an increase in seizure frequency and / or severity has been reported .
Hypersensitivity reactions : Anaphylaxis , laryngeal edema and bronchospasm ( see WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of toxicity from levocarnitine overdosage .
Levocarnitine is easily removed from plasma by dialysis .
The intravenous LD50 of levocarnitine in rats is 5 . 4 g / kg and the oral LD50 of levocarnitine in mice is 19 . 2 g / kg .
Large doses of levocarnitine may cause diarrhea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levocarnitine Injection , USP is administered intravenously .
Metabolic Disorders The recommended dose is 50 mg / kg given as a slow 2 to 3 minute bolus injection or by infusion .
Often a loading dose is given in patients with severe metabolic crisis , followed by an equivalent dose over the following 24 hours .
It should be administered every 3 hours or every 4 hours , and never less than every 6 hours either by infusion or by intravenous injection .
All subsequent daily doses are recommended to be in the range of 50 mg / kg or as therapy may require .
The highest dose administered has been 300 mg / kg .
It is recommended that a plasma carnitine concentration be obtained prior to beginning this parenteral therapy .
Weekly and monthly monitoring is recommended as well .
This monitoring should include blood chemistries , vital signs , plasma carnitine concentrations ( the plasma free carnitine concentration should be between 35 and 60 μmol / L ) and overall clinical condition .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY Levocarnitine Injection , USP is compatible and stable when mixed in parenteral solutions of Sodium Chloride 0 . 9 % or Lactated Ringer ' s in concentrations ranging from 250 mg / 500 mL ( 0 . 5 mg / mL ) to 4200 mg / 500 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) and stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) for up to 24 hours in PVC plastic bags .
HOW SUPPLIED : Levocarnitine Injection , USP is available in 1 g per 5 mL single dose vials packaged 25 vials per tray ( NDC 0517 - 1045 - 25 ) .
Store at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ( See USP ) .
Do not freeze .
Store vials in carton until their use to protect from light .
Discard unused portion of an opened vial , as the formulation does not contain a preservative .
REFERENCES • Bohmer , T . , Rydning , A . and Solberg , H . E . 1974 .
Carnitine levels in human serum in health and disease .
Clin .
Chim .
Acta 57 : 55 - 61 .
• Brooks , H . , Goldberg L . , Holland , R . et al . 1977 .
Carnitine - induced effects on cardiac and peripheral hemodynamics .
J . Clin .
Pharmacol .
17 : 561 - 568 .
• Christiansen , R . , Bremer , J . 1976 .
Active transport of butyrobetaine and carnitine into isolated liver cells .
Biochim .
Biophys .
Acta 448 : 562 - 577 .
• Lindstedt , S . and Lindstedt , G . 1961 .
Distribution and excretion of carnitine in the rat .
Acta Chem .
Scand .
15 : 701 - 702 .
• Rebouche , C . J . and Engel , A . G . 1983 .
Carnitine metabolism and deficiency syndromes .
Mayo Clin .
Proc .
58 : 533 - 540 .
• Rebouche , C . J . and Paulson , D . J . 1986 .
Carnitine metabolism and function in humans .
Ann .
Rev . Nutr .
6 : 41 - 66 .
• Scriver , C . R . , Beaudet , A . L . , Sly , W . S . and Valle , D . 1989 .
The Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease .
New York : McGraw - Hill .
• Schaub , J . , Van Hoof , F . and Vis , H . L . 1991 .
Inborn Errors of Metabolism .
New York : Raven Press .
• Marzo , A . , Arrigoni Martelli , E . , Mancinelli , A . , Cardace , G . , Corbelletta , C . , Bassani , E . , and Solbiati , M . 1991 .
Protein binding of L - carnitine family components .
Eur .
J . Drug Met .
Pharmacokin . , Special Issue III : 364 - 368 .
• Rebouche , C . J . 1991 .
Quantitative estimation of absorption and degradation of a carnitine supplement by human adults .
Metabolism 40 : 1305 - 1310 .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN1055 Rev . 10 / 19 MG # 16074 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Container NDC 0517 - 1045 - 25 LEVOCARNITINE INJECTION , USP 1 g / 5 mL ( 200 mg / mL ) 5 mL SINGLE DOSE VIAL FOR IV USE Rx Only AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Rev . 7 / 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Carton LEVOCARNITINE INJECTION , USP 1 g / 5 mL ( 200 mg / mL ) NDC 0517 - 1045 - 25 25 x 5 mL SINGLE DOSE VIALS FOR INTRAVENOUS USE Rx Only Each mL contains : Levocarnitine 200 mg , Water for Injection q . s . pH ( range 6 . 0 - 6 . 5 ) adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid .
WARNING : Protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Discard unused portion .
Contains no preservatives .
Store at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ( See USP ) .
Do not freeze .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Rev . 10 / 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
