DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Lidocaine 5 % w / w Mineral Oil 17 % w / w Phenylephrine HCI 0 . 25 % w / w White Petrolatum 39 % w / w Purpose Local anesthetic Protectant Vasoconstrictor Protectant Uses : • Helps relieve the pain , itching and burning associated with hemorrhoids • Temporarily reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue and other anorectal disorders • Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • Temporarily protects irritated areas and inflamed perianal skin Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • Heart disease • High blood pressure • Thyroid disease • Diabetes • Difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes • Do not exceed recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • Bleeding occurs • Condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • Allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product • Symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying .
• Adults and children 12 years and older : apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily • Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor • To use finger cots : Roll one finger cot over finger .
Gently squeeze cream onto finger cot .
Smooth a layer of the cream over affected area .
Other information Store at 25 degrees C ( 77 Degrees F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 degrees C ( 59 - 86 degrees F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( purified water ) , Benzyl Alcohol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Ceteareth - 20 , Citric Acid , Dehydroacetic Acid Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
