Indications and Usage Therapy with lipid - altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia .
Drug therapy is recommended as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate .
In patients with CHD or multiple risk factors for CHD , atorvastatin calcium tablets can be started simultaneously with diet .
1 . 1 Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease In adult patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease , but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as age , smoking , hypertension , low HDL - C , or a family history of early coronary heart disease , atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to : Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures and angina In patients with type 2 diabetes , and without clinically evident coronary heart disease , but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as retinopathy , albuminuria , smoking , or hypertension , atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to : Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke In patients with clinically evident coronary heart disease , atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to : Reduce the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of fatal and non - fatal stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures Reduce the risk of hospitalization for CHF Reduce the risk of angina 1 . 2 Hyperlipidemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated : As an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total - C , LDL - C , apo B , and TG levels and to increase HDL - C in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia ( heterozygous familial and nonfamilial ) and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb ) ; As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of patients with elevated serum TG levels ( Fredrickson Type IV ) ; For the treatment of patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III ) who do not respond adequately to diet ; To reduce total - C and LDL - C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as an adjunct to other lipid - lowering treatments ( e . g . , LDL apheresis ) or if such treatments are unavailable ; As an adjunct to diet to reduce total - C , LDL - C , and apo B levels in boys and postmenarchal girls , 10 to 17 years of age , with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present : a . LDL - C remains ≥ 190 mg / dL or b . LDL - C remains ≥ 160 mg / dL and : there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the pediatric patient 1 . 3 Limitations of Use Atorvastatin calcium tablets have not been studied in conditions where the major lipoprotein abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons ( Fredrickson Types I and V ) .
Dosage and Administration 2 . 1 Hyperlipidemia ( Heterozygous Familial and Nonfamilial ) and Mixed Dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb ) The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 or 20 mg once daily .
Patients who require a large reduction in LDL - C ( more than 45 % ) may be started at 40 mg once daily .
The dosage range of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 to 80 mg once daily .
Atorvastatin calcium tablets can be administered as a single dose at any time of the day , with or without food .
The starting dose and maintenance doses of atorvastatin calcium tablets should be individualized according to patient characteristics such as goal of therapy and response ( see current NCEP Guidelines ) .
After initiation and / or upon titration of atorvastatin calcium tablets , lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and dosage adjusted accordingly .
2 . 2 Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia in Pediatric Patients ( 10 to 17 years of age ) The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 mg / day ; the maximum recommended dose is 20 mg / day ( doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population ) .
Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [ see current NCEP Pediatric Panel Guidelines , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) , and Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more .
2 . 3 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets in patients with homozygous FH is 10 to 80 mg daily .
Atorvastatin calcium tablets should be used as an adjunct to other lipid - lowering treatments ( e . g . , LDL apheresis ) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable .
2 . 4 Concomitant Lipid - Lowering Therapy Atorvastatin calcium tablets may be used with bile acid resins .
The combination of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors ( statins ) and fibrates should generally be used with caution [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment Renal disease does not affect the plasma concentrations nor LDL - C reduction of atorvastatin calcium tablets ; thus , dosage adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction is not necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology , Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 6 Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine , Clarithromycin , Itraconazole , or Certain Protease Inhibitors In patients taking cyclosporine or the HIV protease inhibitors ( tipranavir plus ritonavir ) or the hepatitis C protease inhibitor ( telaprevir ) , therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be avoided .
In patients with HIV taking lopinavir plus ritonavir , caution should be used when prescribing atorvastatin calcium tablets and the lowest dose necessary employed .
In patients taking clarithromycin , itraconazole , or in patients with HIV taking a combination of saquinavir plus ritonavir , darunavir plus ritonavir , fosamprenavir , or fosamprenavir plus ritonavir , therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 20 mg , and appropriate clinical assessment is recommended to ensure that the lowest dose necessary of atorvastatin calcium is employed .
In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir , or the hepatitis C protease inhibitor boceprevir , therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 40 mg , and appropriate clinical assessment is recommended to ensure that the lowest dose necessary of atorvastatin calcium tablets is employed [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosage Forms and Strengths Atorvastatin calcium tablets of 10 mg are white to off - white capsule shaped , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed ‘ RDY ’ on one side and ‘ 121 ’ on other side .
Atorvastatin calcium tablets of 20 mg are white to off - white capsule shaped , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed ‘ RDY ’ on one side and ‘ 122 ’ on other side .
Atorvastatin calcium tablets of 40 mg are white to off - white capsule shaped , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed ‘ RDY ’ on one side and ‘ 123 ’ on other side .
Contraindications 4 . 1 Active liver disease , which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels 4 . 2 Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication 4 . 3 Pregnancy Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant .
Atorvastatin calcium may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy , and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal development .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid - lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long - term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of atorvastatin calcium use during pregnancy ; however in rare reports , congenital anomalies were observed following intrauterine exposure to statins .
In rat and rabbit animal reproduction studies , atorvastatin revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED TO WOMEN OF CHILDBEARING AGE ONLY WHEN SUCH PATIENTS ARE HIGHLY UNLIKELY TO CONCEIVE AND HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POTENTIAL HAZARDS .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , atorvastatin calcium should be discontinued immediately and the patient apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 4 Nursing mothers It is not known whether atorvastatin is excreted into human milk ; however a small amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk .
Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , women who require atorvastatin calcium treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Warnings and Precautions 5 . 1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with atorvastatin calciumand with other drugs in this class .
A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis .
Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects .
Atorvastatin , like other statins , occasionally causes myopathy , defined as muscle aches or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) values > 10 times ULN .
The concomitant use of higher doses of atorvastatin with certain drugs such as cyclosporine and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , clarithromycin , itraconazole , and HIV protease inhibitors ) increases the risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis .
There have been rare reports of immune - mediated necrotizing myopathy ( IMNM ) , an autoimmune myopathy , associated with statin use .
IMNM is characterized by : proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum creatine kinase , which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment ; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation ; improvement with immunosuppressive agents .
Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias , muscle tenderness or weakness , and / or marked elevation of CPK .
Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain , tenderness , or weakness , particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing atorvastatin .
Atorvastatin calcium therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected .
The risk of myopathy during treatment with drugs in this class is increased with concurrent administration of cyclosporine , fibric acid derivatives , erythromycin , clarithromycin , the hepatitis C protease inhibitor telaprevir , combinations of HIV protease inhibitors , including saquinavir plus ritonavir , lopinavir plus ritonavir , tipranavir plus ritonavir , darunavir plus ritonavir , fosamprenavir , and fosamprenavir plus ritonavir , niacin , or azole antifungals .
Physicians considering combined therapy with atorvastatin calcium and fibric acid derivatives , erythromycin , clarithromycin , a combination of saquinavir plus ritonavir , lopinavir plus ritonavir , darunavir plus ritonavir , fosamprenavir , or fosamprenavir plus ritonavir , azole antifungals , or lipid - modifying doses of niacin should carefully weigh the potential benefits and risks and should carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain , tenderness , or weakness , particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug .
Lower starting and maintenance doses of atorvastatin should be considered when taken concomitantly with the aforementioned drugs ( see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ) .
Periodic creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) determinations may be considered in such situations , but there is no assurance that such monitoring will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy .
Prescribing recommendations for interacting agents are summarized in Table 1 [ see also Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 .
Drug Interactions Associated with Increased Risk of Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Cyclosporine , HIV protease inhibitors ( tipranavir plus ritonavir ) , hepatitis C protease inhibitor ( telaprevir ) Avoid atorvastatin HIV protease inhibitor ( lopinavir plus ritonavir ) Use with caution and lowest dose necessary Clarithromycin , itraconazole , HIV protease inhibitors ( saquinavir plus ritonavir * , darunavir plus ritonavir , fosamprenavir , fosamprenavir plus ritonavir ) Do not exceed 20 mg atorvastatin daily HIV protease inhibitor ( nelfinavir ) Hepatitis C protease inhibitor ( boceprevir ) Do not exceed 40 mg atorvastatin daily * Use with caution and with the lowest dose necessary ( 12 . 3 ) Cases of myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis , have been reported with atorvastatin co - administered with colchicine , and caution should be exercised when prescribing atorvastatin with colchicine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 11 ) ] Atorvastatin calcium therapy should be temporarily withheld or discontinued in any patient with an acute , serious condition suggestive of a myopathy or having a risk factor predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis ( e . g . , severe acute infection , hypotension , major surgery , trauma , severe metabolic , endocrine and electrolyte disorders , and uncontrolled seizures ) .
5 . 2 Liver Dysfunction Statins , like some other lipid - lowering therapies , have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function .
Persistent elevations ( > 3 times the upper limit of normal [ ULN ] occurring on 2 or more occasions ) in serum transaminases occurred in 0 . 7 % of patients who received atorvastatin calcium in clinical trials .
The incidence of these abnormalities was 0 . 2 % , 0 . 2 % , 0 . 6 % , and 2 . 3 % for 10 , 20 , 40 , and 80 mg , respectively .
One patient in clinical trials developed jaundice .
Increases in liver function tests ( LFT ) in other patients were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms .
Upon dose reduction , drug interruption , or discontinuation , transaminase levels returned to or near pretreatment levels without sequelae .
Eighteen of 30 patients with persistent LFT elevations continued treatment with a reduced dose of atorvastatin calcium .
It is recommended that liver enzyme tests be obtained prior to initiating therapy with atorvastatin calcium and repeated as clinically indicated .
There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non - fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins , including atorvastatin .
If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and / or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with atorvastatin calcium , promptly interrupt therapy .
If an alternate etiology is not found , do not restart atorvastatin calcium .
Atorvastatin calcium should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and / or have a history of liver disease .
Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of atorvastatin calcium [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Endocrine Function Increased in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels have been reported with HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , including atorvastatin calcium .
Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and theoretically might blunt adrenal and / or gonadal steroid production .
Clinical studies have shown that atorvastatin calcium does not reduce basal plasma cortisol concentration or impair adrenal reserve .
The effects of statins on male fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients .
The effects , if any , on the pituitary - gonadal axis in premenopausal women are unknown .
Caution should be exercised if a statin is administered concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the levels or activity of endogenous steroid hormones , such as ketoconazole , spironolactone , and cimetidine .
5 . 4 CNS Toxicity Brain hemorrhage was seen in a female dog treated for 3 months at 120 mg / kg / day .
Brain hemorrhage and optic nerve vacuolation were seen in another female dog that was sacrificed in moribund condition after 11 weeks of escalating doses up to 280 mg / kg / day .
The 120 mg / kg dose resulted in a systemic exposure approximately 16 times the human plasma area - under - the - curve ( AUC , 0 - 24 hours ) based on the maximum human dose of 80 mg / day .
A single tonic convulsion was seen in each of 2 male dogs ( one treated at 10 mg / kg / day and one at 120 mg / kg / day ) in a 2 - year study .
No CNS lesions have been observed in mice after chronic treatment for up to 2 years at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day or in rats at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day .
These doses were 6 to 11 times ( mouse ) and 8 to 16 times ( rat ) the human AUC ( 0 - 24 ) based on the maximum recommended human dose of 80 mg / day .
CNS vascular lesions , characterized by perivascular hemorrhages , edema , and mononuclear cell infiltration of perivascular spaces , have been observed in dogs treated with other members of this class .
A chemically similar drug in this class produced optic nerve degeneration ( Wallerian degeneration of retinogeniculate fibers ) in clinically normal dogs in a dose - dependent fashion at a dose that produced plasma drug levels about 30 times higher than the mean drug level in humans taking the highest recommended dose .
5 . 5 Use in Patients with Recent Stroke or TIA In a post - hoc analysis of the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels ( SPARCL ) study where atorvastatin calcium 80 mg vs . placebo was administered in 4 , 731 subjects without CHD who had a stroke or TIA within the preceding 6 months , a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke was seen in the atorvastatin calcium 80 mg group compared to placebo ( 55 , 2 . 3 % atorvastatin vs . 33 , 1 . 4 % placebo ; HR : 1 . 68 , 95 % CI : 1 . 09 , 2 . 59 ; p = 0 . 0168 ) .
The incidence of fatal hemorrhagic stroke was similar across treatment groups ( 17 vs . 18 for the atorvastatin and placebo groups , respectively ) .
The incidence of nonfatal hemorrhagic stroke was significantly higher in the atorvastatin group ( 38 , 1 . 6 % ) as compared to the placebo group ( 16 , 0 . 7 % ) .
Some baseline characteristics , including hemorrhagic and lacunar stroke on study entry , were associated with a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in the atorvastatin group [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
CLOSE Adverse Reactions The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : Rhabdomyolysis and myopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Liver enzyme abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Adverse Experiences Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In the atorvastatin calcium placebo - controlled clinical trial database of 16 , 066 patients ( 8755 atorvastatin calcium vs . 7311 placebo ; age range 10 to 93 years , 39 % women , 91 % Caucasians , 3 % Blacks , 2 % Asians , 4 % other ) with a median treatment duration of 53 weeks , 9 . 7 % of patients on atorvastatin calcium and 9 . 5 % of the patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse reactions regardless of causality .
The five most common adverse reactions in patients treated with atorvastatin calcium that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were : myalgia ( 0 . 7 % ) , diarrhea ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 4 % ) , alanine aminotransferase increase ( 0 . 4 % ) , and hepatic enzyme increase ( 0 . 4 % ) .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo ) regardless of causality , in patients treated with atorvastatin calcium in placebo controlled trials ( n = 8755 ) were : nasopharyngitis ( 8 . 3 % ) , arthralgia ( 6 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 6 . 8 % ) , pain in extremity ( 6 % ) , and urinary tract infection ( 5 . 7 % ) .
Table 2 summarizes the frequency of clinical adverse reactions , regardless of causality , reported in ≥ 2 % and at a rate greater than placebo in patients treated with atorvastatin calcium ( n = 8755 ) , from seventeen placebo - controlled trials .
Table 2 .
Clinical adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % in patients treated with any dose of atorvastatin calcium and at an incidence greater than placebo regardless of causality ( % of patients ) .
Adverse Reaction * Any dose N = 8755 10 mg N = 3908 20 mg N = 188 40 mg N = 604 80 mg N = 4055 Placebo N = 7311 Nasopharyngitis 8 . 3 12 . 9 5 . 3 7 4 . 2 8 . 2 Arthralgia 6 . 9 8 . 9 11 . 7 10 . 6 4 . 3 6 . 5 Diarrhea 6 . 8 7 . 3 6 . 4 14 . 1 5 . 2 6 . 3 Pain in extremity 6 8 . 5 3 . 7 9 . 3 3 . 1 5 . 9 Urinary tractinfection 5 . 7 6 . 9 6 . 4 8 4 . 1 5 . 6 Dyspepsia 4 . 7 5 . 9 3 . 2 6 3 . 3 4 . 3 Nausea 4 3 . 7 3 . 7 7 . 1 3 . 8 3 . 5 Musculoskeletal pain 3 . 8 5 . 2 3 . 2 5 . 1 2 . 3 3 . 6 Muscle Spasms 3 . 6 4 . 6 4 . 8 5 . 1 2 . 4 3 Myalgia 3 . 5 3 . 6 5 . 9 8 . 4 2 . 7 3 . 1 Insomnia 3 2 . 8 1 . 1 5 . 3 2 . 8 2 . 9 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 2 . 3 3 . 9 1 . 6 2 . 8 0 . 7 2 . 1 * Adverse Reaction ≥ 2 % in any dose greater than placebo Other adverse reactions reported in placebo - controlled studies include : Body as a whole : malaise , pyrexia ; Digestive system : abdominal discomfort , eructation , flatulence , hepatitis , cholestasis ; Musculoskeletal system : musculoskeletal pain , muscle fatigue , neck pain , joint swelling ; Metabolic and nutritional system : transaminases increase , liver function test abnormal , blood alkaline phosphatase increase , creatine phosphokinase increase , hyperglycemia ; Nervous system : nightmare ; Respiratory system : epistaxis ; Skin and appendages : urticaria ; Special senses : vision blurred , tinnitus ; Urogenital system : white blood cells urine positive .
Anglo - Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial ( ASCOT ) In ASCOT [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] involving 10 , 305 participants ( age range 40 to 80 years , 19 % women ; 94 . 6 % Caucasians , 2 . 6 % Africans , 1 . 5 % South Asians , 1 . 3 % mixed / other ) treated with atorvastatin calcium 10 mg daily ( n = 5 , 168 ) or placebo ( n = 5 , 137 ) , the safety and tolerability profile of the group treated with atorvastatin calcium was comparable to that of the group treated with placebo during a median of 3 . 3 years of follow - up .
Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study ( CARDS ) In CARDS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] involving 2 , 838 subjects ( age range 39 to 77 years , 32 % women ; 94 . 3 % Caucasians , 2 . 4 % South Asians , 2 . 3 % Afro - Caribbean , 1 % other ) with type 2 diabetes treated with atorvastatin calcium 10 mg daily ( n = 1 , 428 ) or placebo ( n = 1 , 410 ) , there was no difference in the overall frequency of adverse reactions or serious adverse reactions between the treatment groups during a median follow - up of 3 . 9 years .
No cases of rhabdomyolysis were reported .
Treating to New Targets Study ( TNT ) In TNT [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] involving 10 , 001 subjects ( age range 29 to 78 years , 19 % women ; 94 . 1 % Caucasians , 2 . 9 % Blacks , 1 % Asians , 2 % other ) with clinically evident CHD treated with atorvastatin calcium 10 mg daily ( n = 5006 ) or atorvastatin calcium 80 mg daily ( n = 4995 ) , there were more serious adverse reactions and discontinuations due to adverse reactions in the high - dose atorvastatin group ( 92 , 1 . 8 % ; 497 , 9 . 9 % , respectively ) as compared to the low - dose group ( 69 , 1 . 4 % ; 404 , 8 . 1 % , respectively ) during a median follow - up of 4 . 9 years .
Persistent transaminase elevations ( ≥ 3 x ULN twice within 4 to 10 days ) occurred in 62 ( 1 . 3 % ) individuals with atorvastatin 80 mg and in nine ( 0 . 2 % ) individuals with atorvastatin 10 mg .
Elevations of CK ( ≥ 10 x ULN ) were low overall , but were higher in the high - dose atorvastatin treatment group ( 13 , 0 . 3 % ) compared to the low - dose atorvastatin group ( 6 , 0 . 1 % ) .
Incremental Decrease in Endpoints through Aggressive Lipid Lowering Study ( IDEAL ) In IDEAL [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] involving 8 , 888 subjects ( age range 26 to 80 years , 19 % women ; 99 . 3 % Caucasians , 0 . 4 % Asians , 0 . 3 % Blacks , 0 . 04 % other ) treated with atorvastatin calcium 80 mg / day ( n = 4439 ) or simvastatin 20 to 40 mg daily ( n = 4449 ) , there was no difference in the overall frequency of adverse reactions or serious adverse reactions between the treatment groups during a median follow - up of 4 . 8 years .
Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels ( SPARCL ) In SPARCL involving 4731 subjects ( age range 21 to 92 years , 40 % women ; 93 . 3 % Caucasians , 3 % Blacks , 0 . 6 % Asians , 3 . 1 % other ) without clinically evident CHD but with a stroke or transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) within the previous 6 months treated with atorvastatin calcium 80 mg ( n = 2365 ) or placebo ( n = 2366 ) for a median follow - up of 4 . 9 years , there was a higher incidence of persistent hepatic transaminase elevations ( ≥ 3 x ULN twice within 4 to 10 days ) in the atorvastatin group ( 0 . 9 % ) compared to placebo ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Elevations of CK ( > 10 x ULN ) were rare , but were higher in the atorvastatin group ( 0 . 1 % ) compared to placebo ( 0 % ) .
Diabetes was reported as an adverse reaction in 144 subjects ( 6 . 1 % ) in the atorvastatin group and 89 subjects ( 3 . 8 % ) in the placebo group [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
In a post - hoc analysis , atorvastatin calcium 80 mg reduced the incidence of ischemic stroke ( 218 / 2365 , 9 . 2 % vs . 274 / 2366 , 11 . 6 % ) and increased the incidence of hemorrhagic stroke ( 55 / 2365 , 2 . 3 % vs . 33 / 2366 , 1 . 4 % ) compared to placebo .
The incidence of fatal hemorrhagic stroke was similar between groups ( 17 atorvastatin calcium vs . 18 placebo ) .
The incidence of non - fatal hemorrhagic strokes was significantly greater in the atorvastatin group ( 38 non - fatal hemorrhagic strokes ) as compared to the placebo group ( 16 non - fatal hemorrhagic strokes ) .
Subjects who entered the study with a hemorrhagic stroke appeared to be at increased risk for hemorrhagic stroke [ 7 ( 16 % ) atorvastatin calcium vs . 2 ( 4 % ) placebo ] .
There were no significant differences between the treatment groups for all - cause mortality : 216 ( 9 . 1 % ) in the atorvastatin calcium 80 mg / day group vs . 211 ( 8 . 9 % ) in the placebo group .
The proportions of subjects who experienced cardiovascular death were numerically smaller in the atorvastatin calcium 80 mg group ( 3 . 3 % ) than in the placebo group ( 4 . 1 % ) .
The proportions of subjects who experienced non - cardiovascular death were numerically larger in the atorvastatin calcium 80 mg group ( 5 % ) than in the placebo group ( 4 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of atorvastatin calcium .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with atorvastatin calcium therapy reported since market introduction , that are not listed above , regardless of causality assessment , include the following : anaphylaxis , angioneurotic edema , bullous rashes ( including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , rhabdomyolysis , myositis , fatigue , tendon rupture , fatal and non - fatal hepatic failure , dizziness , depression , peripheral neuropathy , pancreatitis and interstitial lung disease .
There have been rare reports of immune - mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment ( e . g . , memory loss , forgetfulness , amnesia , memory impairment , confusion ) associated with statin use .
These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins .
The reports are generally nonserious , and reversible upon statin discontinuation , with variable times to symptom onset ( 1 day to years ) and symptom resolution ( median of 3 weeks ) .
6 . 3 Pediatric Patients ( ages 10 to 17 years ) In a 26 - week controlled study in boys and postmenarchal girls ( n = 140 , 31 % female ; 92 % Caucasians , 1 . 6 % Blacks , 1 . 6 % Asians , 4 . 8 % other ) , the safety and tolerability profile of atorvastatin calcium 10 to 20 mg daily was generally similar to that of placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) and Use in Special Populations , Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interactions The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent administration of fibric acid derivatives , lipid - modifying doses of niacin , cyclosporine , or strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , clarithromycin , HIV protease inhibitors , and itraconazole ) [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 1 Strong Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Atorvastatin calcium is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 .
Concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with strong inhibitors of CYP 3A4 can lead to increases in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin .
The extent of interaction and potentiation of effects depend on the variability of effect on CYP 3A4 .
Clarithromycin : Atorvastatin AUC was significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium 80 mg with clarithromycin ( 500 mg twice daily ) compared to that of atorvastatin calcium alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , in patients taking clarithromycin , caution should be used when the atorvastatin calcium dose exceeds 20 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
Combination of Protease Inhibitors : Atorvastatin AUC was significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with several combinations of HIV protease inhibitors , as well as with the hepatitis C protease inhibitor telaprevir , compared to that of atorvastatin calcium alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , in patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor tipranavir plus ritonavir , or the hepatitis C protease inhibitor telaprevir , concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium should be avoided .
In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor lopinavir plus ritonavir , caution should be used when prescribing atorvastatin calcium and the lowest dose necessary should be used .
In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitors saquinavir plus ritonavir , darunavir plus ritonavir , fosamprenavir , or fosamprenavir plus ritonavir , the dose of atorvastatin calcium should not exceed 20 mg and should be used with caution [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) andDosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir or the hepatitis C protease inhibitor boceprevir , the dose of atorvastatin calcium should not exceed 40 mg andclose clinicalmonitoring is recommended .
Itraconazole : Atorvastatin AUC was significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium 40 mg and itraconazole 200 mg [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , in patients taking itraconazole , caution should be used when the atorvastatin calcium dose exceeds 20 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 2 Grapefruit Juice Contains one or more components that inhibit CYP 3A4 and can increase plasma concentrations of atorvastatin , especially with excessive grapefruit juice consumption ( > 1 . 2 liters per day ) .
7 . 3 Cyclosporine Atorvastatin and atorvastatin - metabolites are substrates of the OATP1B1 transporter .
Inhibitors of the OATP1B1 ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) can increase the bioavailability of atorvastatin .
Atorvastatin AUC was significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium 10 mg and cyclosporine 5 . 2 mg / kg / day compared to that of atorvastatin calcium alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The co - administration of atorvastatin calcium with cyclosporine should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis when HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors are co - administered with gemfibrozil , concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates , atorvastatin calcium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when atorvastatin calcium is used in combination with niacin ; a reduction in atorvastatin calcium dosage should be considered in this setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 7 Rifampin or other Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with inducers of cytochrome P450 3A4 ( e . g . , efavirenz , rifampin ) can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin .
Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin , simultaneous co - administration of atorvastatin calcium with rifampin is recommended , as delayed administration of atorvastatin calcium after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations .
7 . 8 Digoxin When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co - administered , steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased by approximately 20 % .
Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately .
7 . 9 Oral Contraceptives Co - administration of atorvastatin calcium and an oral contraceptive increased AUC values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
These increases should be considered when selecting an oral contraceptive for a woman taking atorvastatin calcium .
7 . 10 Warfarin Atorvastatin calcium had no clinically significant effect on prothrombin time when administered to patients receiving chronic warfarin treatment .
7 . 11 Colchicine Cases of myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis , have been reported with atorvastatin co - administered with colchicine , and caution should be exercised when prescribing atorvastatin with colchicine .
Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X Atorvastatin calcium is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy .
Lipid lowering drugs offer no benefit during pregnancy because cholesterol and cholesterol derivatives are needed for normal fetal development .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic process , and discontinuation of lipid - lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on long - term outcomes of primary hypercholesterolemia therapy .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of atorvastatin use during pregnancy .
There have been rare reports of congenital anomalies following intrauterine exposure to statins .
In a review of about 100 prospectively followed pregnancies in women exposed to other statins , the incidences of congenital anomalies , spontaneous abortions , and fetal deaths / stillbirths did not exceed the rate expected in the general population .
However , this study was only able to exclude a three - to - four - fold increased risk of congenital anomalies over background incidence .
In 89 % of these cases , drug treatment started before pregnancy and stopped during the first trimester when pregnancy was identified .
Atorvastatin crosses the rat placenta and reaches a level in fetal liver equivalent to that of maternal plasma .
Atorvastatin was not teratogenic in rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day or in rabbits at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day .
These doses resulted in multiples of about 30 times ( rat ) or 20 times ( rabbit ) the human exposure based on surface area ( mg / m2 ) [ see Contraindications , Pregnancy ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
In a study in rats given 20 , 100 , or 225 mg / kg / day , from gestation day 7 through to lactation day 21 ( weaning ) , there was decreased pup survival at birth , neonate , weaning , and maturity in pups of mothers dosed with 225 mg / kg / day .
Body weight was decreased on days 4 and 21 in pups of mothers dosed at 100 mg / kg / day ; pup body weight was decreased at birth and at days 4 , 21 , and 91 at 225 mg / kg / day .
Pup development was delayed ( rotorod performance at 100 mg / kg / day and acoustic startle at 225 mg / kg / day ; pinnae detachment and eye - opening at 225 mg / kg / day ) .
These doses correspond to 6 times ( 100 mg / kg ) and 22 times ( 225 mg / kg ) the human AUC at 80 mg / day .
Statins may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Atorvastatin calcium should be administered to women of childbearing potential only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive and have been informed of the potential hazards .
If the woman becomes pregnant while taking atorvastatin calcium , it should be discontinued immediately and the patient advised again as to the potential hazards to the fetus and the lack of known clinical benefit with continued use during pregnancy .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether atorvastatin is excreted in human milk , but a small amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk .
Nursing rat pups had plasma and liver drug levels of 50 % and 40 % , respectively , of that in their mother ’ s milk .
Animal breast milk drug levels may not accurately reflect human breast milk levels .
Because another drug in this class passes into human milk and because statins have a potential to cause serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , women requiring atorvastatin calcium treatment should be advised not to nurse their infants [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in patients 10 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia have been evaluated in a controlled clinical trial of 6 months ’ duration in adolescent boys and postmenarchal girls .
Patients treated with atorvastatin calcium had an adverse experience profile generally similar to that of patients treated with placebo .
The most common adverse experiences observed in both groups , regardless of causality assessment , were infections .
Doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population .
In this limited controlled study , there was no significant effect on growth or sexual maturation in boys or on menstrual cycle length in girls [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ; Adverse Reactions , Pediatric Patients ( ages 10 to 17 years ) ( 6 . 3 ) ; and Dosage and Administration , Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia in Pediatric Patients ( 10 to 17 years of age ) ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Adolescent females should be counseled on appropriate contraceptive methods while on atorvastatin calcium therapy [ see Contraindications , Pregnancy ( 4 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations , Pregnancy ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Atorvastatin calcium has not been studied in controlled clinical trials involving pre - pubertal patients or patients younger than 10 years of age .
Clinical efficacy with doses up to 80 mg / day for 1 year have been evaluated in an uncontrolled study of patients with homozygous FH including 8 pediatric patients [ see Clinical Studies , Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 39 , 828 patients who received atorvastatin calcium in clinical studies , 15 , 813 ( 40 % ) were ≥ 65 years old and 2 , 800 ( 7 % ) were ≥ 75 years old .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older adults cannot be ruled out .
Since advanced age ( ≥ 65 years ) is a predisposing factor for myopathy , atorvastatin calcium should be prescribed with caution in the elderly .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Atorvastatin calcium is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Overdosage There is no specific treatment for atorvastatin calcium overdosage .
In the event of an overdose , the patient should be treated symptomatically , and supportive measures instituted as required .
Due to extensive drug binding to plasma proteins , hemodialysis is not expected to significantly enhance atorvastatin calcium clearance .
Description Atorvastatin calcium is a synthetic lipid - lowering agent .
Atorvastatin is an inhibitor of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase .
This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of HMG - CoA to mevalonate , an early and rate - limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis .
Atorvastatin calcium is [ R - ( R * , R * ) ] - 2 - ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) - ß , δ - dihydroxy - 5 - ( 1 - methylethyl ) - 3 - phenyl - 4 - [ ( phenylamino ) carbonyl ] - 1 H - pyrrole - 1 - heptanoic acid , calcium salt ( 2 : 1 ) .
The molecular formula of atorvastatin calcium is C66H68CaF2N4O10and its molecular weight is 1155 . 36 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atorvastatin calcium is a white to off - white colored powder free from visible extraneous matter .
Atorvastatin calcium is soluble in dimethyl sulphoxide , slightly soluble in alcohol , very slightly soluble in water , in pH 7 . 4 phosphate buffer and in acetonitrile and practically insoluble in aqueous solutions of pH 4 and below .
Atorvastatin calcium tablets for oral administration contain 10 , 20 and 40 mg atorvastatin and the following inactive ingredients : Basic butylated methacrylate copolymer , crospovidone , hydroxy propyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methanol , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium bicarbonate and sodium lauryl sulphate .
The tablet coating contains isopropyl alcohol , methylene chloride and coloring agent opadry OY - 58900 white contains polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide and hypromellose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atorvastatin calcium is a selective , competitive inhibitor of HMG - CoA reductase , the rate - limiting enzyme that converts 3 - hydroxy - 3 methylglutaryl - coenzyme A to mevalonate , a precursor of sterols , including cholesterol .
Cholesterol and triglycerides circulate in the bloodstream as part of lipoprotein complexes .
With ultracentrifugation , these complexes separate into HDL ( high - density lipoprotein ) , IDL ( intermediate - density lipoprotein ) , LDL ( low - density lipoprotein ) , and VLDL ( very - low - density lipoprotein ) fractions .
Triglycerides ( TG ) and cholesterol in the liver are incorporated into VLDL and released into the plasma for delivery to peripheral tissues .
LDL is formed from VLDL and is catabolized primarily through the high - affinity LDL receptor .
Clinical and pathologic studies show that elevated plasma levels of total cholesterol ( total - C ) , LDL - cholesterol ( LDL - C ) , and apolipoprotein B ( apo B ) promote human atherosclerosis and are risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease , while increased levels of HDL - C are associated with a decreased cardiovascular risk .
In animal models , atorvastatin calcium lowers plasma cholesterol and lipoprotein levels by inhibiting HMG - CoA reductase and cholesterol synthesis in the liver and by increasing the number of hepatic LDL receptors on the cell surface to enhance uptake and catabolism of LDL ; atorvastatin calcium also reduces LDL production and the number of LDL particles .
Atorvastatin calcium reduces LDL - C in some patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) , a population that rarely responds to other lipid - lowering medication ( s ) .
A variety of clinical studies have demonstrated that elevated levels of total - C , LDL - C , and apo B ( a membrane complex for LDL - C ) promote human atherosclerosis .
Similarly , decreased levels of HDL - C ( and its transport complex , apo A ) are associated with the development of atherosclerosis .
Epidemiologic investigations have established that cardiovascular morbidity and mortality vary directly with the level of total - C and LDL - C , and inversely with the level of HDL - C .
Atorvastatin calcium reduces total - C , LDL - C , and apo B in patients with homozygous and heterozygous FH , nonfamilial forms of hypercholesterolemia , and mixed dyslipidemia .
Atorvastatin calcium also reduces VLDL - C and TG and produces variable increases in HDL - C and apolipoprotein A - 1 .
Atorvastatin calcium reduces total - C , LDL - C , VLDL - C , apo B , TG , and non - HDL - C , and increases HDL - C in patients with isolated hypertriglyceridemia .
Atorvastatin calcium reduces intermediate density lipoprotein cholesterol ( IDL - C ) in patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia .
Like LDL , cholesterol - enriched triglyceride - rich lipoproteins , including VLDL , intermediate density lipoprotein ( IDL ) , and remnants , can also promote atherosclerosis .
Elevated plasma triglycerides are frequently found in a triad with low HDL - C levels and small LDL particles , as well as in association with non - lipid metabolic risk factors for coronary heart disease .
As such , total plasma TG has not consistently been shown to be an independent risk factor for CHD .
Furthermore , the independent effect of raising HDL or lowering TG on the risk of coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Atorvastatin calcium , as well as some of its metabolites , are pharmacologically active in humans .
The liver is the primary site of action and the principal site of cholesterol synthesis and LDL clearance .
Drug dosage , rather than systemic drug concentration , correlates better with LDL - C reduction .
Individualization of drug dosage should be based on therapeutic response [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Atorvastatin calcium is rapidly absorbed after oral administration ; maximum plasma concentrations occur within 1 to 2 hours .
Extent of absorption increases in proportion to atorvastatin calcium dose .
The absolute bioavailability of atorvastatin ( parent drug ) is approximately 14 % and the systemic availability of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitory activity is approximately 30 % .
The low systemic availability is attributed to presystemic clearance in gastrointestinal mucosa and / or hepatic first - pass metabolism .
Although food decreases the rate and extent of drug absorption by approximately 25 % and 9 % , respectively , as assessed by Cmax and AUC , LDL - C reduction is similar whether atorvastatin calcium is given with or without food .
Plasma atorvastatin calcium concentrations are lower ( approximately 30 % for Cmax and AUC ) following evening drug administration compared with morning .
However , LDL - C reduction is the same regardless of the time of day of drug administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Distribution : Mean volume of distribution of atorvastatin calcium is approximately 381 liters .
Atorvastatin calcium is ≥ 98 % bound to plasma proteins .
A blood / plasma ratio of approximately 0 . 25 indicates poor drug penetration into red blood cells .
Based on observations in rats , atorvastatin calcium is likely to be secreted in human milk [ see Contraindications , Nursing Mothers ( 4 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations , Nursing Mothers ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Metabolism : Atorvastatin calcium is extensively metabolized to ortho - and parahydroxylated derivatives and various beta - oxidation products .
In vitro inhibition of HMG - CoA reductase by ortho - and parahydroxylated metabolites is equivalent to that of atorvastatin calcium .
Approximately 70 % of circulating inhibitory activity for HMG - CoA reductase is attributed to active metabolites .
In vitro studies suggest the importance of atorvastatin calcium metabolism by cytochrome P450 3A4 , consistent with increased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium in humans following co - administration with erythromycin , a known inhibitor of this isozyme [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
In animals , the ortho - hydroxy metabolite undergoes further glucuronidation .
Excretion : Atorvastatin calcium and its metabolites are eliminated primarily in bile following hepatic and / or extra - hepatic metabolism ; however , the drug does not appear to undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Mean plasma elimination half - life of atorvastatin calcium in humans is approximately 14 hours , but the half - life of inhibitory activity for HMG - CoA reductase is 20 to 30 hours due to the contribution of active metabolites .
Less than 2 % of a dose of atorvastatin calcium is recovered in urine following oral administration .
Specific Populations Geriatric : Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium are higher ( approximately 40 % for Cmax and 30 % for AUC ) in healthy elderly subjects ( age ≥ 65 years ) than in young adults .
Clinical data suggest a greater degree of LDL - lowering at any dose of drug in the elderly patient population compared to younger adults [ see Use in Specific Populations , Geriatric Use ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric : Pharmacokinetic data in the pediatric population are not available .
Gender : Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium in women differ from those in men ( approximately 20 % higher for Cmax and 10 % lower for AUC ) ; however , there is no clinically significant difference in LDL - C reduction with atorvastatin calcium between men and women .
Renal Impairment : Renal disease has no influence on the plasma concentrations or LDL - C reduction of atorvastatin calcium ; thus , dose adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction is not necessary [ see Dosage and Administration , Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment ( 2 . 5 ) , Warnings and Precautions , Skeletal Muscle ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hemodialysis : While studies have not been conducted in patients with end - stage renal disease , hemodialysis is not expected to significantly enhance clearance of atorvastatin calcium since the drug is extensively bound to plasma proteins .
Hepatic Impairment : In patients with chronic alcoholic liver disease , plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium are markedly increased .
Cmax and AUC are each 4 - fold greater in patients with Childs - Pugh A disease .
Cmax and AUC are approximately 16 - fold and 11 - fold increased , respectively , in patients with Childs - Pugh B disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
TABLE 3 .
Effect of Co - administered Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Atorvastatin Co - administered drug and dosing regimen Atorvastatin Dose ( mg ) Change in AUC & Change in Cmax & # Cyclosporine 5 . 2 mg / kg / day , stable dose 10 mg QD for 28 days ↑ 8 . 7 fold ↑ 10 . 7 fold # Tipranavir 500 mg BID / ritonavir 200 mg BID , 7 days 10 mg , SD ↑ 9 . 4 fold ↑ 8 . 6 fold # Telaprevir 750 mg q8h , 10 days 20 mg , SD ↑ 7 . 88 fold ↑ 10 . 6 fold # , ‡ Saquinavir 400 mg BID / ritonavir 400 mg BID , 15 days 40 mg QD for 4 days ↑ 3 . 9 fold ↑ 4 . 3 fold # Clarithromycin 500 mg BID , 9 days 80 mg QD for 8 days ↑ 4 . 4 fold ↑ 5 . 4 fold # Darunavir 300 mg BID / ritonavir 100 mg BID , 9 days 10 mg QD for 4 days ↑ 3 . 4 fold ↑ 2 . 25 fold # Itraconazole 200 mg QD , 4 days 40 mg SD ↑ 3 . 3 fold ↑ 20 % # Fosamprenavir 700 mg BID / ritonavir 100 mg BID , 14 days 10 mg QD for 4 days ↑ 2 . 53 fold ↑ 2 . 84 fold # Fosamprenavir 1400 mg BID , 14 days 10 mg QD for 4 days ↑ 2 . 3 fold ↑ 4 . 04 fold # Nelfinavir 1250 mg BID , 14 days 10 mg QD for 28 days ↑ 74 % ↑ 2 . 2 fold # Grapefruit Juice , 240 mL QD * 40 mg , SD ↑ 37 % ↑ 16 % Diltiazem 240 mg QD , 28 days 40 mg , SD ↑ 51 % No change Erythromycin 500 mg QID , 7 days 10 mg , SD ↑ 33 % ↑ 38 % Amlodipine 10 mg , single dose 80 mg , SD ↑ 15 % ↓ 12 % Cimetidine 300 mg QID , 2 weeks 10 mg QD for 2 weeks ↓ Less than 1 % ↓ 11 % Colestipol 10 mg BID , 28 weeks 40 mg QD for 28 weeks Not determined ↓ 26 % ** Maalox TC ® 30 mL QD , 17 days 10 mg QD for 15 days ↓ 33 % ↓ 34 % Efavirenz 600 mg QD , 14 days 10 mg for 3 days ↓ 41 % ↓ 1 % # Rifampin 600 mg QD , 7 days ( co - administered ) † 40 mg SD ↑ 30 % ↑ 2 . 7 fold # Rifampin 600 mg QD , 5 days ( doses separated ) † 40 mg SD ↓ 80 % ↓ 40 % # Gemfibrozil 600 mg BID , 7 days 40 mg SD ↑ 35 % ↓ Less than 1 % # Fenofibrate 160 mg QD , 7 days 40 mg SD ↑ 3 % ↑ 2 % Boceprevir 800 mg TID , 7 days 40 mg SD ↑ 2 . 30 fold ↑ 2 . 66 fold & Data given as x - fold change represent a simple ratio between co - administration and atorvastatin alone ( i . e . , 1 - fold = no change ) .
Data given as % change represent % difference relative to atorvastatin alone ( i . e . , 0 % = no change ) .
# See Sections 5 . 1 and 7 for clinical significance .
* Greater increases in AUC ( up to 2 . 5 fold ) and / or Cmax ( up to 71 % ) have been reported with excessive grapefruit consumption ( ≥ 750 mL - 1 . 2 liters per day ) .
** Single sample taken 8 - 16 h post dose .
† Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin , simultaneous co - administration of atorvastatin with rifampin is recommended , as delayed administration of atorvastatin after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations .
‡ The dose of saquinavir plus ritonavir in this study is not the clinically used dose .
The increase in atorvastatin exposure when used clinically is likely to be higher than what was observed in this study .
Therefore , caution should be applied and the lowest dose necessary should be used .
TABLE 4 .
Effect of Atorvastatin on the Pharmacokinetics of Co - administered Drugs Atorvastatin Co - administered drug and dosing regimen Drug / Dose ( mg ) Change in AUC Change in Cmax 80 mg QD for 15 days Antipyrine , 600 mg SD ↑ 3 % ↓ 11 % 80 mg QD for 14 days # Digoxin 0 . 25 mg QD , 20 days ↑ 15 % ↑ 20 % 40 mg QD for 22 days Oral contraceptive QD , 2 months - norethindrone 1 mg - ethinyl estradiol 35μg ↑ 28 % ↑ 19 % ↑ 23 % ↑ 30 % 10 mg , SD Tipranavir 500 mg BID / ritonavir 200 mg BID , 7 days No change No change 10 mg QD for 4 days Fosamprenavir 1400 mg BID , 14 days ↓ 27 % ↓ 18 % 10 mg QD for 4 days Fosamprenavir 700 mgBID / ritonavir 100 mg BID , 14 days No change No change # See Section 7 for clinical significance .
Nonclinical Toxicology 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in rats at dose levels of 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day , 2 rare tumors were found in muscle in high - dose females : in one , there was a rhabdomyosarcoma and , in another , there was a fibrosarcoma .
This dose represents a plasma AUC ( 0 to 24 ) value of approximately 16 times the mean human plasma drug exposure after an 80 mg oral dose .
A 2 - year carcinogenicity study in mice given 100 , 200 , or 400 mg / kg / day resulted in a significant increase in liver adenomas in high - dose males and liver carcinomas in high - dose females .
These findings occurred at plasma AUC ( 0 to 24 ) values of approximately 6 times the mean human plasma drug exposure after an 80 mg oral dose .
In vitro , atorvastatin was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the following tests with and without metabolic activation : the Ames test with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli , the HGPRT forward mutation assay in Chinese hamster lung cells , and the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster lung cells .
Atorvastatin was negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Studies in rats performed at doses up to 175 mg / kg ( 15 times the human exposure ) produced no changes in fertility .
There was aplasia and aspermia in the epididymis of 2 of 10 rats treated with 100 mg / kg / day of atorvastatin for 3 months ( 16 times the human AUC at the 80 mg dose ) ; testis weights were significantly lower at 30 and 100 mg / kg and epididymal weight was lower at 100 mg / kg .
Male rats given 100 mg / kg / day for 11 weeks prior to mating had decreased sperm motility , spermatid head concentration , and increased abnormal sperm .
Atorvastatin caused no adverse effects on semen parameters , or reproductive organ histopathology in dogs given doses of 10 , 40 , or 120 mg / kg for two years .
Package Label .
Prinicipal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
