Rx Only PRESCRIBING INFORMATION USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , TEVETEN ® HCT Tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg and TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 25 mg ( eprosartan mesylate - hydrochlorothiazide ) combine an angiotensin II receptor ( AT1 subtype ) antagonist and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
TEVETEN ® ( eprosartan mesylate ) is a non - biphenyl non - tetrazole angiotensin II receptor ( AT1 ) antagonist .
A selective non - peptide molecule , TEVETEN ® is chemically described as the monomethanesulfonate of ( E ) - 2 - butyl - 1 - ( p - carboxybenzyl ) - α - 2 - thienylmethylimidazole - 5 - acrylic acid .
Its empirical formula is C23H24N2O4S • CH4O3S and molecular weight is 520 . 625 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Eprosartan mesylate is a white to off - white free - flowing crystalline powder that is insoluble in water , freely soluble in ethanol , and melts between 248 ° C and 250 ° C . Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 , which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
TEVETEN ® HCT is available for oral administration in film - coated , non - scored , capsule - shaped tablet combinations of eprosartan mesylate and hydrochlorothiazide .
TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg contains 735 . 8 mg of eprosartan mesylate ( equivalent to 600 mg eprosartan ) and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide in a butterscotch - colored tablet .
TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 25 mg contains 735 . 8 mg of eprosartan mesylate ( equivalent to 600 mg eprosartan ) and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide in a brick - red tablet .
Inactive ingredients of both tablets : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , and purified water .
Ingredients of the OPADRY ® 85F27320 butterscotch film coating : polyethylene glycol 3350 , talc , polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , iron oxide black , and iron oxide yellow .
Ingredients of the OPADRY ® II 85F24297 pink film coating : polyethylene glycol 3350 , titanium dioxide , talc , polyvinyl alcohol , iron oxide red , and iron oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Eprosartan : Angiotensin II ( formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme [ kininase II ] ) , a potent vasoconstrictor , is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone synthesis and secretion by the adrenal cortex , cardiac contraction , renal resorption of sodium , activity of the sympathetic nervous system , and smooth muscle cell growth .
Eprosartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor found in many tissues ( e . g . , vascular smooth muscle , adrenal gland ) .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues but it is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Eprosartan does not exhibit any partial agonist activity at the AT1 receptor .
Its affinity for the AT1 receptor is 1 , 000 times greater than for the AT2 receptor .
In vitro binding studies indicate that eprosartan is a reversible , competitive inhibitor of the AT1 receptor .
Blockade of the AT1 receptor removes the negative feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and circulating angiotensin II do not overcome the effect of eprosartan on blood pressure .
TEVETEN ® HCT does not inhibit kininase II , the enzyme that converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II and degrades bradykinin ; whether this has clinical relevance is not known .
It does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics General Eprosartan : Absolute bioavailability following a single 300 - mg oral dose of eprosartan is approximately 13 % .
Eprosartan plasma concentrations peak at 1 to 2 hours after an oral dose in the fasted state .
Administering eprosartan with food delays absorption , and causes variable changes ( < 25 % ) in Cmax and AUC values which do not appear clinically important .
Plasma concentrations of eprosartan increase in a slightly less than dose - proportional manner over the 100 mg to 800 mg dose range .
The mean terminal elimination half - life of eprosartan following multiple oral doses of 600 mg was approximately 20 hours .
Eprosartan does not significantly accumulate with chronic use .
Hydrochlorothiazide : When hydrochlorothiazide plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
Metabolism and Excretion : Eprosartan : Eprosartan is eliminated by biliary and renal excretion , primarily as unchanged compound .
Less than 2 % of an oral dose is excreted in the urine as a glucuronide .
There are no active metabolites following oral and intravenous dosing with [ 14 C ] eprosartan in human subjects .
Eprosartan was the only drug - related compound found in the plasma and feces .
Following intravenous [ 14 C ] eprosartan , about 61 % of the material is recovered in the feces and about 37 % in the urine .
Following an oral dose of [ 14 C ] eprosartan , about 90 % is recovered in the feces and about 7 % in the urine .
Approximately 20 % of the radioactivity excreted in the urine was an acyl glucuronide of eprosartan with the remaining 80 % being unchanged eprosartan .
Eprosartan is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours .
Distribution Eprosartan : Plasma protein binding of eprosartan is high ( approximately 98 % ) and constant over the concentration range achieved with therapeutic doses .
The pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis from two Phase 3 trials of 299 men and 172 women with mild to moderate hypertension ( aged 20 to 93 years ) showed that eprosartan exhibited a population mean oral clearance ( CL / F ) for an average 60 - year - old patient of 48 . 5 L / hr .
The population mean steady - state volume of distribution ( Vss / F ) was 308 L . Eprosartan pharmacokinetics were not influenced by weight , race , gender or severity of hypertension at baseline .
Oral clearance was shown to be a linear function of age with CL / F decreasing 0 . 62 L / hr for every year increase .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and it is excreted in breast milk .
Special Populations Pediatric : Eprosartan pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in patients younger than 18 years of age .
Geriatric : Following single oral dose administration of eprosartan to healthy elderly men , ( aged 68 to 78 years ) , AUC , Cmax , and Tmax eprosartan values increased , on average , by approximately twofold , compared to healthy young men ( aged 20 to 38 years ) who received the same dose .
The extent of plasma protein binding is not influenced by age .
Gender : There was no difference in the pharmacokinetics and plasma protein binding between men and women following single oral dose administration of eprosartan .
Race : A pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis of 442 Caucasian and 29 non - Caucasian hypertensive patients showed that oral clearance and steady - state volume of distribution were not influenced by race .
Renal Insufficiency : Following administration of 600 mg once daily , there was a 70 - 90 % increase in AUC , and a 30 - 50 % increase in Cmax in moderate or severe renal impairment .
The unbound eprosartan fractions increased by 35 % and 59 % in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment , respectively .
No initial dosing adjustment is generally necessary in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment , with maximum dose not exceeding 600 mg daily .
Eprosartan was poorly removed by hemodialysis ( CLHD < 1 L / hr ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Eprosartan AUC ( but not Cmax ) values increased , on average , by approximately 40 % in men with decreased hepatic function compared to healthy men after a single 100 mg oral dose of eprosartan .
The extent of eprosartan plasma protein binding was not influenced by hepatic dysfunction .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions Eprosartan : Concomitant administration of eprosartan with digoxin had no effect on a single oral - dose digoxin pharmacokinetics .
Concomitant administration of eprosartan and warfarin had no effect on steady - state prothrombin time ratios ( INR ) in healthy volunteers .
Concomitant administration of eprosartan and glyburide in diabetic patients did not affect 24 - hour plasma glucose profiles .
Eprosartan pharmacokinetics were not affected by concomitant administration of ranitidine .
Eprosartan did not inhibit human cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A , 2A6 , 2C9 / 8 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2 E , and 3 A in vitro .
Eprosartan steady - state plasma concentrations were not affected by concomitant administration of ketoconazole or fluconazole , potent inhibitors of CYP3A and 2C9 , respectively .
Eprosartan - Hydrochlorothiazide : There is no pharmacokinetic interaction between 600 mg eprosartan and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Eprosartan : Eprosartan inhibits the pharmacologic effects of angiotensin II infusions in healthy adult men .
Single oral doses of eprosartan from 10 mg to 400 mg have been shown to inhibit the vasopressor , renal vasoconstrictive and aldosterone secretory effects of infused angiotensin II with complete inhibition evident at doses of 350 mg and above .
Eprosartan inhibits the pressor effects of angiotensin II infusions .
A single oral dose of 350 mg of eprosartan inhibits pressor effects by approximately 100 % at peak , with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
The absence of angiotensin II AT1 agonist activity has been demonstrated in healthy adult men .
In hypertensive patients treated chronically with eprosartan , there was a twofold rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration and a twofold rise in plasma renin activity , while plasma aldosterone levels remained unchanged .
Serum potassium levels also remained unchanged in these patients .
Achievement of maximal blood pressure response to a given dose in most patients may take 2 to 3 weeks of treatment .
Onset of blood pressure reduction is seen within 1 to 2 hours of dosing with few instances of orthostatic hypotension .
Blood pressure control is maintained with once - or twice - daily dosing over a 24 - hour period .
Discontinuing treatment with eprosartan does not lead to a rapid rebound increase in blood pressure .
There was no change in mean heart rate in patients treated with eprosartan in controlled clinical trials .
Eprosartan increases mean effective renal plasma flow ( ERPF ) in salt - replete and salt - restricted normal subjects .
A dose - related increase in ERPF of 25 % to 30 % occurred in salt - restricted normal subjects , with the effect plateauing between 200 mg and 400 mg doses .
There was no change in ERPF in hypertensive patients and patients with renal insufficiency on normal salt diets .
Eprosartan did not reduce glomerular filtration rate in patients with renal insufficiency or in patients with hypertension , after 7 days and 28 days of dosing , respectively .
In hypertensive patients and patients with chronic renal insufficiency , eprosartan did not change fractional excretion of sodium and potassium .
Eprosartan ( 1200 mg once daily for 7 days or 300 mg twice daily for 28 days ) had no effect on the excretion of uric acid in healthy men , patients with essential hypertension or those with varying degrees of renal insufficiency .
There were no effects on mean levels of fasting triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , LDL cholesterol or fasting glucose .
Clinical Trials Eprosartan Mesylate : The safety and efficacy of TEVETEN ® has been evaluated in controlled clinical trials worldwide that enrolled predominantly hypertensive patients with sitting DBP ranging from 95 mmHg to ≤ 115 mmHg .
There is also some experience with use of eprosartan together with other antihypertensive drugs in more severe hypertension .
The antihypertensive effects of TEVETEN ® were demonstrated principally in five placebo - controlled trials ( 4 to 13 weeks ' duration ) including dosages of 400 mg to 1200 mg given once daily ( two studies ) , 25 mg to 400 mg twice daily ( two studies ) , and one study comparing total daily doses of 400 mg to 800 mg given once daily or twice daily .
The five studies included 1 , 111 patients randomized to eprosartan and 395 patients randomized to placebo .
The studies showed dose - related antihypertensive responses .
At study endpoint , patients treated with TEVETEN ® at doses of 600 mg to 1200 mg given once daily experienced significant decreases in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough , with differences from placebo of approximately 5 - 10 / 3 - 6 mmHg .
Limited experience is available with the dose of 1200 mg administered once daily .
In a direct comparison of 200 mg to 400 mg b . i . d . with 400 mg to 800 mg q . d . of TEVETEN ® , effects at trough were similar .
Patients treated with TEVETEN ® at doses of 200 mg to 400 mg given twice daily experienced significant decreases in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough , with differences from placebo of approximately 7 - 10 / 4 - 6 mmHg .
Peak ( 1 to 3 hours ) effects were uniformly , but moderately , larger than trough effects with b . i . d . dosing , with the trough - to - peak ratio for diastolic blood pressure 65 % to 80 % .
In the once - daily dose - response study , trough - to - peak responses of ≤ 50 % were observed at some doses ( including 1200 mg ) , suggesting attenuation of effect at the end of the dosing interval .
The antihypertensive effect of TEVETEN ® was similar in men and women , but was somewhat smaller in patients over 65 .
There were too few black subjects to determine whether their response was similar to Caucasians .
In general , blacks ( usually a low renin population ) have had smaller responses to ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II inhibitors than Caucasian populations .
Angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor - induced cough ( a dry , persistent cough ) can lead to discontinuation of ACE inhibitor therapy .
In one study , patients who had previously coughed while taking an ACE inhibitor were treated with eprosartan , an ACE inhibitor ( enalapril ) or placebo for six weeks .
The incidence of dry , persistent cough was 2 . 2 % on eprosartan , 4 . 4 % on placebo , and 20 . 5 % on the ACE inhibitor ; p = 0 . 008 for the comparison of eprosartan with enalapril .
In a second study comparing the incidence of cough in 259 patients treated with eprosartan to 261 patients treated with the ACE inhibitor enalapril , the incidence of dry , persistent cough in eprosartan - treated patients ( 1 . 5 % ) was significantly lower ( p = 0 . 018 ) than that observed in patients treated with the ACE inhibitor ( 5 . 4 % ) .
In addition , analysis of overall data from six double - blind clinical trials involving 1 , 554 patients showed an incidence of spontaneously reported cough in patients treated with eprosartan of 3 . 5 % , similar to placebo ( 2 . 6 % ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide : After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours , and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Eprosartan Mesylate – Hydrochlorothiazide : Four adequate and well - controlled studies were conducted to assess the antihypertensive effectiveness of TEVETEN HCT ® / ( Eprosartan Mesylate / hydrochlorothiazide ) in 1457 patients with mild - to - moderate essential hypertension .
In a 2x2 factorial study with 112 - 119 hypertensive patients per arm , the mean baseline - and placebo - subtracted reductions in blood pressure at 8 weeks were 3 . 6 / 2 . 1 mmHg on eprosartan 600 mg , 5 . 6 / 1 . 9 mmHg on hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg , and 10 . 0 / 5 . 0 mmHg on the combination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TEVETEN ® HCT is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives such as calcium channel blockers .
This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TEVETEN ® HCT is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any of its components .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
WARNINGS Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature in patients who were taking angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
When pregnancy is detected , TEVETEN ® HCT should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug .
These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist only during the first trimester should be so informed .
Nonetheless , when patients become pregnant , physicians should advise the patient to discontinue the use of eprosartan as soon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to a drug acting on the renin - angiotensin system will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses , and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , TEVETEN ® HCT should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a nonstress test ( NST ) or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Eprosartan mesylate , alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide , has been shown to produce maternal and fetal toxicities ( maternal and fetal mortality , low maternal body weight and food consumption , resorptions , abortions and litter loss ) in pregnant rabbits given oral doses as low as 10 mg eprosartan / kg / day and 3 mg hydrochlorothiazide / kg / day .
No maternal or fetal adverse effects were observed in rabbits at 3 mg eprosartan / kg / day alone or in combination with 1 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide ; this oral dose yielded a systemic exposure ( AUC ) to unbound eprosartan approximately equal to the human systemic exposure achieved with the dose of eprosartan mesylate contained in the maximum recommended human dose of TEVETEN ® HCT ( 600 mg eprosartan / day ) .
No adverse effects on in utero or postnatal development and maturation of offspring were observed when eprosartan mesylate was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1000 mg eprosartan / kg / day ( the 1000 mg eprosartan / kg / day dose in non - pregnant rats yielded systemic exposure to unbound eprosartan approximately 0 . 8 times the exposure achieved in humans given 600 mg / day ) .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Hypotension in Volume - and / or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur .
These conditions should be corrected prior to administration of TEVETEN ® HCT , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
Hydrochlorothiazide Impaired Hepatic Function : Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus : Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Lithium Interaction : Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Hydrochlorothiazide , Lithium ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
In diabetic patients , dosage adjustment of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus , latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of hydrochlorothiazide may be enhanced in postsympathectomy patients .
Electrolyte Imbalance Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include : dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Risk of Renal Impairment As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function have been reported in susceptible individuals treated with angiotensin II antagonists ; in some patients , these changes in renal function were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy .
In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
TEVETEN ® HCT would be expected to behave similarly .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or BUN have been reported .
Similar effects have been reported with angiotensin II antagonists ; in some patients , these effects were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy .
Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of second - and third - trimester exposure to drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system , and they should also be told that these consequences do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
These patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible so that treatment may be discontinued under medical supervision .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving TEVETEN ® HCT should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patient should be told that if syncope occurs , TEVETEN ® HCT should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Potassium Supplements : A patient receiving TEVETEN ® HCT should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Eprosartan Mesylate ) .
Drug Interactions Eprosartan Mesylate : Eprosartan has been shown to have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin and the pharmacodynamics of warfarin and glyburide .
Thus , no dosing adjustments are necessary during concomitant use with these agents .
Because eprosartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system , inhibitors of CYP450 enzyme would not be expected to affect its metabolism , and ketoconazole and fluconazole , potent inhibitors of CYP3A and 2C9 , respectively , have been shown to have no effect on eprosartan pharmacokinetics .
Ranitidine also has no effect on eprosartan pharmacokinetics .
Eprosartan ( up to 400 mg b . i . d . or 800 mg q . d . ) doses have been safely used concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic ( hydrochlorothiazide ) .
Eprosartan doses of up to 300 mg b . i . d . have been safely used concomitantly with sustained - release calcium channel blockers ( sustained - release nifedipine ) with no clinically significant adverse interactions .
As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects , concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) , potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients , Potassium Supplements ) .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including eprosartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving eprosartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including eprosartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Hydrochlorothiazide : When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics – potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drug ( oral agents and insulin ) – dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs – additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins – Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH – intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) – possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) – possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium – should not generally be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with TEVETEN ® HCT .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs – in some patients , the administration of a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when TEVETEN ® HCT and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with eprosartan mesylate in combination with hydrochlorothiazide .
Eprosartan mesylate was not carcinogenic in dietary restricted rats or ad libitum fed mice dosed at 600 mg and 2000 mg eprosartan / kg / day , respectively , for up to 2 years .
In male and female rats , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) to unbound eprosartan at the dose evaluated was only approximately 25 % of the exposure achieved in humans given TEVETEN ® HCT .
In mice , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) to unbound eprosartan was approximately 35 times the exposure achieved in humans given TEVETEN ® HCT .
Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Eprosartan mesylate was not mutagenic in vitro in mammalian cells ( mouse lymphoma assay ) .
Eprosartan mesylate alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide was not mutagenic in vitro in bacteria ( Ames test ) and did not cause structural chromosomal damage in vivo ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
In human peripheral lymphocytes in vitro , eprosartan mesylate in combination with hydrochlorothiazide was positive for clastogenicity with and without metabolic activation .
In the same assay , eprosartan mesylate alone was associated with polyploidy but there was only equivocal evidence of structural chromosomal damage .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay .
No fertility studies have been conducted with eprosartan mesylate in combination with hydrochlorothiazide .
Eprosartan mesylate had no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of male or female rats at oral doses up to 1000 mg eprosartan / kg / day .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg / day , respectively , prior to conception and throughout gestation .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) : See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Nursing Mothers Eprosartan is excreted in animal milk ; it is not known whether eprosartan is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from eprosartan , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Thiazides appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials where patients received eprosartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy , 15 % to 33 % of the patients were 65 years of age or greater .
There was no difference in the effect of TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg treatment according to age .
However , following single oral dose administration of eprosartan to healthy elderly men , ( aged 68 to 78 years ) , AUC , Cmax , and Tmax eprosartan values increased , on average , by approximately twofold , compared to healthy young men ( aged 20 to 38 years ) who received the same dose .
( See Pharmacokinetics , Special Populations ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg has been evaluated for safety in 268 patients in double - blind , controlled clinical trials .
Most of these patients were treated with TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg for 29 to 60 days .
Eprosartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy has been evaluated for safety in 890 patients in open - label , long - term clinical trials .
Approximately 50 % of these patients were treated with eprosartan / hydrochlorothiazide for over 2 years .
Eprosartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy was well tolerated .
Most adverse events were of mild or moderate severity and did not require discontinuation of therapy .
Adverse experiences were similar in patients regardless of age , gender , or race .
In the controlled clinical trials , about 3 % of the 268 patients treated with TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg discontinued therapy due to clinical adverse experiences .
Adverse Events Occurring at an Incidence of Greater Than 3 % Among TEVETEN ® HCT Treated Patients The following table lists adverse events that occurred at an incidence of > 3 % among TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg - or monotherapy - treated patients who participated in the controlled clinical trials .
Of the 268 patients who received TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg during the double - blind treatment period in the controlled trials , 110 patients were reported to have adverse events .
Table 1 Incidence of Adverse Events > 3 % During the Double - Blind Treatment Period by Preferred Term and Treatment Grouping : Controlled Studies Placebo ( N = 246 ) Eprosartan 600 mg ( N = 275 ) HCTZ 12 . 5 mg ( N = 117 ) HCTZ 25 mg ( N = 52 ) Eprosartan 600 mg / HCTZ 12 . 5 mg ( N = 268 ) Preferred Term n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Dizziness 4 ( 1 . 6 ) 5 ( 1 . 8 ) 2 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 11 ( 4 . 1 ) Headache 22 ( 8 . 9 ) 10 ( 3 . 6 ) 4 ( 3 . 4 ) 3 ( 5 . 8 ) 9 ( 3 . 4 ) Back pain 6 ( 2 . 4 ) 7 ( 2 . 5 ) 2 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 7 ( 2 . 6 ) Fatigue 6 ( 2 . 4 ) 5 ( 1 . 8 ) 1 ( 0 . 9 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 5 ( 1 . 9 ) Myalgia 8 ( 3 . 3 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) 3 ( 2 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8 ( 3 . 3 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Sinusitis 4 ( 1 . 6 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Viral Infection 4 ( 1 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 2 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 ( 3 . 8 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) The adverse events reported in over 600 patients that received TEVETEN ® / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy for at least 1 year in the open - label , long - term clinical trials were comparable to those reported in the controlled trials .
Eprosartan Mesylate : In addition to the adverse events above , potentially important adverse events that are included in the current labeling for TEVETEN ® monotherapy are listed below .
Most of these adverse events occurred in < 1 % of patients , or were as frequent or more frequent in the placebo group .
It is not known if these events were related to eprosartan usage : Body as a Whole : alcohol intolerance , asthenia , substernal chest pain , dependent edema , peripheral edema , facial edema , fatigue , fever , hot flushes , influenza - like symptoms , injury , malaise , pain , rigors , viral infection ; Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , bradycardia , abnormal ECG , specific abnormal ECG , extrasystoles , atrial fibrillation , hypotension ( including orthostatic hypotension ) , tachycardia , palpitations ; Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , esophagitis , flatulence , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gingivitis , nausea , periodontitis , toothache , vomiting ; Hematologic : anemia , purpura ; Liver and Biliary : increased SGOT , increased SGPT ; Metabolic and Nutritional : increased creatine phosphokinase , diabetes mellitus , glycosuria , gout , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , hypokalemia , hyponatremia , hypertriglyceridemia ; Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , arthritis , aggravated arthritis , arthrosis , skeletal pain , tendinitis ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : anxiety , ataxia , depression , dizziness , insomnia , migraine , neuritis , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence , tremor , vertigo ; Resistance Mechanism : herpes simplex , otitis externa , otitis media , upper respiratory tract infection ; Respiratory : asthma , bronchitis , coughing , epistaxis , pharyngitis , rhinitis ; Skin and Appendages : eczema , furunculosis , pruritus , rash , maculopapular rash , increased sweating ; Special Senses : conjunctivitis , abnormal vision , xerophthalmia , tinnitus ; Urinary : albuminuria , cystitis , hematuria , micturition frequency , polyuria , renal calculus , urinary incontinence , urinary tract infection ; Vascular : leg cramps , peripheral ischemia .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Other adverse events that have been reported for hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body as a Whole : weakness ; Cardiovascular : hypotension ( including orthostatic hypotension ) ; Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , diarrhea , vomiting , sialadenitis , cramping , constipation , gastric irritation , nausea , anorexia ; Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia ; Hypersensitivity : anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis , and pulmonary edema , photosensitivity , fever , urticaria , rash , purpura ; Metabolic : electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and hypochloremic alkalosis , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia ; Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : vertigo , paresthesias , restlessness ; Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis , azotemia ; Skin : erythema multiform , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis , including toxic epidermal necrolysis , alopecia ; Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia ; Urogenital : impotence .
Laboratory Test Findings : In placebo - controlled studies , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of TEVETEN ® .
Patients were rarely withdrawn from TEVETEN ® because of laboratory test results .
Laboratory test findings that have been reported for TEVETEN ® are listed below : Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor elevations in creatinine and in BUN occurred in 0 . 6 % and 1 . 3 % , respectively , of patients taking TEVETEN ® and 0 . 9 % and 0 . 3 % , respectively , of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for elevations in serum creatinine and BUN , and three additional patients were withdrawn for increases in serum creatinine .
Liver Function Tests : Minor elevations of ALAT , ASAT , and alkaline phosphatase occurred for comparable percentages of patients taking TEVETEN ® or placebo in controlled clinical trials .
An elevated ALAT of > 3 . 5 x ULN occurred in 0 . 1 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® ( one patient ) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
Four patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for an elevation in liver function tests .
Hemoglobin : A greater than 20 % decrease in hemoglobin was observed in 0 . 1 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® ( one patient ) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for anemia .
Leukopenia : A WBC count of ≤ 3 . 0 x 103 / mm3 occurred in 0 . 3 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® and in 0 . 3 % of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for leukopenia .
Neutropenia : A neutrophil count of ≤ 1 . 5 x 103 / mm3 occurred in 1 . 3 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® and in 1 . 4 % of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
No patient was withdrawn from any clinical trials for neutropenia .
Thrombocytopenia : A platelet count of ≤ 100 x 109 / L occurred in 0 . 3 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® ( one patient ) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
Four patients receiving TEVETEN ® in clinical trials were withdrawn for thrombocytopenia .
In one case , thrombocytopenia was present prior to dosing with TEVETEN ® .
Serum Potassium : A potassium value of ≥ 5 . 6 mmol / L occurred in 0 . 9 % of patients taking TEVETEN ® and 0 . 3 % of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for hyperkalemia and three for hypokalemia .
Additional Information : Among the adverse events reported for patients receiving either TEVETEN ® monotherapy or TEVETEN ® / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy in the TEVETEN ® HCT clinical trials , some adverse events are not included in the current labeling for either TEVETEN ® or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
The adverse events which are not currently included in the labeling for TEVETEN ® or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy include the following : angioedema , bilirubinemia , blood urea nitrogen increased , edema periorbital , eosinophilia , and NPN increased .
The majority of these adverse events were reported in the open - label , long - term trials and were reported in small numbers of patients receiving TEVETEN ® alone or TEVETEN ® in combination with hydrochlorothiazide .
All of these adverse events were either not reported in patients receiving TEVETEN ® monotherapy or combination therapy with hydrochlorothiazide during the double - blind period of the controlled trials , or were reported at an incidence of ≤ 1 % or in only one patient per treatment group in the controlled trials .
The overall safety profile of the TEVETEN ® / hydrochlorothiazide combination treatment is as expected based on the safety profile of each of the components and what is generally known about the patient population .
OVERDOSAGE Eprosartan Mesylate : Limited data are available regarding overdosage .
Appropriate symptomatic and supportive therapy should be given if overdosage should occur .
There was no mortality in rats and mice receiving oral doses of up to 3000 mg eprosartan / kg and in dogs receiving oral doses of up to 1000 mg eprosartan / kg .
Hydrochlorothiazide : The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , and hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual recommended starting dose of eprosartan is 600 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension in Volume - and / or Salt - Depleted Patients ) .
Eprosartan can be administered once or twice daily and total daily doses ranging from 400 mg to 800 mg .
There is limited experience with doses beyond 800 mg / day .
If the antihypertensive effect measured at trough using once - daily monotherapy dosing is inadequate , a twice - a - day regimen at the same total daily dose or an increase in dose may give a more satisfactory response .
Achievement of maximum blood pressure reduction in most patients may take 2 to 3 weeks .
Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 mg to 50 mg once daily .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of eprosartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) phenomena , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of eprosartan and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects .
Replacement Therapy TEVETEN ® HCT may be substituted for the individual components .
The usual recommended dose of TEVETEN ® HCT is 600 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily when used as combination therapy in patients who are not volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension in Volume - and / or Salt - Depleted Patients ) .
If the antihypertensive effect measured at trough using TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 12 . 5 mg is inadequate , patients may be titrated to TEVETEN ® HCT 600 / 25 mg once daily .
Higher doses have not been studied in combination .
Achievement of maximum blood pressure reduction in most patients may take 2 to 3 weeks .
If the patient under treatment with TEVETEN ® HCT requires additional blood pressure control at trough , or to maintain a twice a day dosing schedule of monotherapy , 300 mg TEVETEN ® may be added as evening dose .
TEVETEN ® HCT may be used in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as calcium channel blockers if additional blood - pressure - lowering effect is required .
Discontinuation of treatment with eprosartan does not lead to a rapid rebound increase in blood pressure .
Elderly , Hepatically Impaired or Renally Impaired Patients : No initial dosing adjustment is generally necessary for elderly or hepatically impaired patients or those with renal impairment .
No initial dosing adjustment is generally necessary in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment with maximum dose not exceeding 600 mg daily .
TEVETEN ® HCT may be taken with or without food .
HOW SUPPLIED TEVETEN ® HCT is available as film - coated , capsule - shaped tablets , debossed with “ SOLVAY ” on one side and “ 5147 ” or “ 5150 ” on the other , supplied as bottles of 30 tablets as follows : Eprosartan ( mg ) HCTZ ( mg ) Color NDC 600 12 . 5 Butterscotch 54868 - 5281 - 1 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Abbott Laboratories North Chicago , IL 60064 U . S . A . © 2010 Abbott Laboratories Rev . April , 2011 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 NDC 54868 - 5281 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] TEVETEN ® HCT eprosartan mesylate / hydrochlorothiazide 600 / 12 . 5 mg Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
