Rx only DESCRIPTION Chemical name : ( 2 - mercaptoethyl ) trimethylammonium iodide O , O - diethyl phosphorothioate Structural formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution occurs as a white , crystalline , water - soluble , hygroscopic solid having a slight mercaptan - like odor .
When freeze - dried in the presence of potassium acetate , the mixture appears as a white amorphous deposit on the walls of the bottle .
Each package contains materials for dispensing 5 mL of eyedrops : ( 1 ) bottle containing sterile echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution 6 . 25 mg ( 0 . 125 % ) with 40 mg potassium acetate .
Sodium hydroxide or acetic acid may have been incorporated to adjust pH during manufacturing ; ( 2 ) a 5 mL bottle of sterile diluent containing chlorobutanol ( chloral derivative ) , 0 . 55 % ; mannitol , 1 . 2 % ; boric acid , 0 . 06 % ; and sodium phosphate , 0 . 026 % ; ( 3 ) sterilized dropper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution is a long - acting cholinesterase inhibitor for topical use which enhances the effect of endogenously liberated acetylcholine in iris , ciliary muscle , and other parasympathetically innervated structures of the eye .
It thereby causes miosis , increase in facility of outflow of aqueous humor , fall in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) , and potentiation of accommodation .
Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution will depress both plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase levels in most patients after a few weeks of eyedrop therapy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Reduction of Elevated IOP Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of elevated IOP .
Accommodative Esotropia Concomitant esotropias with a significant accommodative component .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active uveal inflammation .
• Most cases of angle - closure glaucoma without iridectomy , due to the possibility of increasing angle block .
• Hypersensitivity to the active or inactive ingredients .
WARNINGS • Succinylcholine should be administered only with great caution , if at all , prior to or during general anesthesia to patients receiving anticholinesterase medication because of possible respiratory or cardiovascular collapse .
• Caution should be observed in treating elevated IOP with echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution in patients who are at the same time undergoing treatment with systemic anticholinesterase medications , because of possible adverse additive effects .
PRECAUTIONS General • Digital compression of the nasolacrimal ducts for a minute or two following instillation to minimize drainage into the nasal chamber is recommended .
To prevent possible skin absorption , hands should be washed following instillation .
• Discontinue use of the medication if cardiac irregularities occur .
• Anticholinesterase drugs should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with marked vagotonia , bronchial asthma , spastic gastrointestinal disturbances , peptic ulcer , pronounced bradycardia and hypotension , recent myocardial infarction , epilepsy , parkinsonism , and other disorders that may respond adversely to vagotonic effects .
• Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution should be used with caution , where there is a prior history of retinal detachment .
• Temporary discontinuance of medication is necessary if salivation , urinary incontinence , diarrhea , profuse sweating , muscle weakness , or respiratory difficulties occur .
• Patients receiving echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution who are exposed to carbamate - or organophosphate - type insecticides and pesticides should be warned of the additive systemic effects possible from absorption of the pesticide through the respiratory tract or skin .
During periods of exposure to such pesticides , the wearing of respiratory masks , and frequent washing and clothing changes may be advisable .
Drug Interactions Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution potentiates other cholinesterase inhibitors such as succinylcholine or organophosphate and carbamate insecticides .
Patients undergoing systemic anticholinesterase treatment should be warned of the possible additive effects of echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No data is available regarding carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution .
It is also not known whether echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS • Although the relationship , if any , of retinal detachment to the administration of echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution has not been established , retinal detachment has been reported in a few cases during the use of echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution in adult patients without a previous history of this disorder .
• Stinging , burning , lacrimation , lid muscle twitching , conjunctival and ciliary redness , browache , induced myopia with visual blurring may occur .
• Activation of latent iritis or uveitis may occur .
• Iris cysts may form , and if treatment is continued , may enlarge and obscure vision .
This occurrence is more frequent in children .
The cysts usually shrink upon discontinuance of the medication or by reducing the frequency of instillation .
Rarely , they may rupture or break free into the aqueous .
Regular examinations are advisable when the drug is being prescribed for the treatment of accommodative esotropia .
• Prolonged use may cause conjunctival thickening , obstruction of nasolacrimal canals .
• Lens opacities have been reported with echothiophate iodide .
• Paradoxical increase in IOP may follow anticholinesterase instillation .
This may be alleviated by prescribing a sympathomimetic mydriatic such as phenylephrine .
• Cardiac irregularities .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING EYEDROPS • Use aseptic technique .
• Tear off aluminum seals , and remove and discard rubber plugs from both drug and diluent containers .
• Pour diluent into drug container .
• Remove dropper assembly from its sterile wrapping .
Holding dropper assembly by the screw cap and , WITHOUT COMPRESSING RUBBER BULB , insert into drug container and screw down tightly .
• Shake for several seconds to ensure mixing .
• Do not cover nor obliterate instructions to patient regarding storage of eyedrops .
Elevated IOP Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution one drop instilled twice a day , just before retiring and in the morning .
A change in therapy is indicated if , at any time , the tension fails to remain at an acceptable level on this regimen .
Two doses a day are preferred to one in order to maintain as smooth a diurnal tension curve as possible , although a single dose per day or every other day has been used with satisfactory results .
The daily dose or one of the two daily doses should always be instilled just before retiring to avoid inconvenience due to the miosis .
Technique – Technique in the administration of echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution may include finger pressure at the inner canthus exerted for a minute or two following instillation of the eyedrops , to potentially minimize drainage into the nose and throat .
Excess solution around the eye should be removed with tissue and any medication on the hands should be rinsed off .
Accommodative Esotropia ( Pediatric Use ) In Diagnosis – One drop may be instilled once a day in both eyes on retiring , for a period of two or three weeks .
If the esotropia is accommodative , a favorable response will usually be noted which may begin within a few hours .
In Treatment – Echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution is prescribed at the lowest frequency which gives satisfactory results .
After the initial period of treatment for diagnostic purposes , the schedule may be reduced to one drop every other day .
The maximum usually recommended dosage is one drop once a day , although more intensive therapy has been used for short periods .
Technique – ( See “ DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ” ) Duration of Treatment — In therapy , there is no definite limit so long as the drug is well tolerated .
However , if the eyedrops , with or without eyeglasses , are gradually withdrawn after about a year or two and deviation recurs , surgery should be considered .
As with other miotics , tolerance may occasionally develop after prolonged use .
In such cases , a rest period may restore the original activity of the drug .
HOW SUPPLIED Each package contains sterile echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution , sterile diluent , and dropper for dispensing 5 mL eyedrops .
NDC 48102 - 053 - 05 ................... 6 . 25 mg package for 0 . 125 % White amorphous deposit on bottle walls .
Aluminum crimp seal is green .
HANDLING AND STORAGE : Prior to reconstitution : Store under refrigeration ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
After reconstitution : Store at room temperature ( approximately 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Discard any unused solution after 4 weeks .
FERA ® PHARMACEUTICALS Distributed by : Fera Pharmaceuticals , LLC Locust Valley , NY 11560 PF053 Rev . 0821 6100199 Principal Display Panel - 6 . 25 mg / 5 mL Carton Label FERA ® PHARMACEUTICALS NDC 48102 - 053 - 05 Phospholine Iodide ® ( echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 125 % ( 1 / 8 % ) 6 . 25 mg / 5 mL This package contains sterile echothiophate iodide with 40 mg potassium acetate ( sodium hydroxide or acetic acid may have been incorporated to adjust pH during manufacturing ) and 5 mL ( 1 / 6 fl oz ) sterile aqueous diluent , in individual bottles for dispensing 5 mL of eyedrops of strength shown when reconstituted .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 . 25 mg / 5 mL Bottle Label NDC 48102 - 054 - 05 Rx only Phospholine Iodide ® ( echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 125 % ( 1 / 8 % ) 6 . 25 mg / 5 mL Each 5 mL contains 6 . 25 mg of echothiophate iodide With 40 mg Potassium Acetate for preparing 5 mL eyedrops .
See accompanying descriptive literature .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 5 mL Bottle Label NDC 48102 - 055 - 05 STERILE DILUENT FOR PREPARING Phospholine Iodide ® ( echothiophate iodide for ophthalmic solution ) 5 mL ( 1 / 6 fl oz ) EYEDROPS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
