DESCRIPTION Labetalol hydrochloride tablets , USP are an adrenergic receptor blocking agent that has both selective Alpha1 - adrenergic and nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking actions in a single substance .
Labetalol hydrochloride is a racemate , chemically designated as 2 - hydroxy - 5 - [ 1 - hydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 3 - phenylpropyl ) amino ] ethyl ] benzamide mono hydrochloride and it has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labetalol hydrochloride has the molecular formula C19 H24 N2 O3 • HCl and a molecular weight of 364 . 87 .
It has two asymmetric centers and therefore exists as a molecular complex of two diastereoisomeric pairs .
Dilevalol , the R , R ' stereoisomer , makes up 25 % of racemic labetalol .
Labetalol hydrochloride , USP is a white or almost white powder .
It is sparingly soluble in water and in ethanol ( 96 % ) , practically insoluble in ether and in methylene chloride .
Labetalol hydrochloride tablet , USP for oral administration contain 100 mg , 200 mg or 300 mg labetalol hydrochloride , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate ( botanical source : potato ) and titanium dioxide .
Additionally , 100 mg tablets contain D & C yellow # 10 Aluminum lake , iron oxide yellow , iron oxide red and talc .
300 mg tablets contain FD & C blue # 1 Aluminum lake , iron oxide yellow and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Labetalol hydrochloride combines both selective , competitive , alpha1 - adrenergic blocking and nonselective , competitive , beta - adrenergic blocking activity in a single substance .
In man , the ratios of alpha - to beta - blockade have been estimated to be approximately 1 : 3 and 1 : 7 following oral and intravenous ( IV ) administration , respectively .
Beta2 - agonist activity has been demonstrated in animals with minimal beta1 - agonist ( ISA ) activity detected .
In animals , at doses greater than those required for alpha - or beta - adrenergic blockade , a membrane - stabilizing effect has been demonstrated .
Pharmacodynamics The capacity of labetalol hydrochloride to block alpha receptors in man has been demonstrated by attenuation of the pressor effect of phenylephrine and by a significant reduction of the pressor response caused by immersing the hand in ice - cold water ( " cold pressor test " ) .
Labetalol hydrochloride ' s beta1 - receptor blockade in man was demonstrated by a small decrease in the resting heart rate , attenuation of tachycardia produced by isoproterenol or exercise , and by attenuation of the reflex tachycardia to the hypotension produced by amyl nitrite .
Beta2 - receptor blockade was demonstrated by inhibition of the isoproterenol - induced fall in diastolic blood pressure .
Both the alpha - and beta - blocking actions of orally administered labetalol hydrochloride contribute to a decrease in blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Labetalol hydrochloride consistently , in dose - related fashion , blunted increases in exercise - induced blood pressure and heart rate , and in their double product .
The pulmonary circulation during exercise was not affected by labetalol hydrochloride dosing .
Single oral doses of labetalol hydrochloride administered to patients with coronary artery disease had no significant effect on sinus rate , intraventricular conduction , or QRS duration .
The atrioventricular ( A - V ) conduction time was modestly prolonged in two of seven patients .
In another study , intravenous ( IV ) labetalol hydrochloride slightly prolonged A - V nodal conduction time and atrial effective refractory period with only small changes in heart rate .
The effects on A - V nodal refractoriness were inconsistent .
Labetalol hydrochloride produces dose - related falls in blood pressure without reflex tachycardia and without significant reduction in heart rate , presumably through a mixture of its alpha - blocking and beta - blocking effects .
Hemodynamic effects are variable with small , non significant changes in cardiac output seen in some studies but not others , and small decreases in total peripheral resistance .
Elevated plasma renins are reduced .
Doses of labetalol hydrochloride that controlled hypertension did not affect renal function in mild to severe hypertensive patients with normal renal function .
Due to the alpha1 - receptor blocking activity of labetalol hydrochloride , blood pressure is lowered more in the standing than in the supine position and symptoms of postural hypotension ( 2 % ) , including rare instances of syncope , can occur .
Following oral administration , when postural hypotension has occurred , it has been transient and is uncommon when the recommended starting dose and titration increments are closely followed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is most likely to occur 2 to 4 hours after a dose , especially following the use of large initial doses or upon large changes in dose .
The peak effects of single oral doses of labetalol hydrochloride occur within 2 to 4 hours .
The duration of effect depends upon dose , lasting at least 8 hours following single oral doses of 100 mg and more than 12 hours following single oral doses of 300 mg .
The maximum , steady - state blood pressure response upon oral , twice - a - day dosing occurs within 24 to 72 hours .
The antihypertensive effect of labetalol has a linear correlation with the logarithm of labetalol plasma concentration and there is also a linear correlation between the reduction in exercise - induced tachycardia occurring at 2 hours after oral administration of labetalol hydrochloride and the logarithm of the plasma concentration .
About 70 % of the maximum beta - blocking effect is present for 5 hours after the administration of a single oral dose of 400 mg with suggestion that about 40 % remains at 8 hours .
The anti - anginal efficacy of labetalol hydrochloride has not been studied .
In 37 patients with hypertension and coronary artery disease , labetalol hydrochloride did not increase the incidence or severity of angina attacks .
Exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease .
Abrupt withdrawal of these agents in patients without coronary artery disease has resulted in transient symptoms , including tremulousness , sweating , palpitation , headache and malaise .
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain these phenomena , among them increased sensitivity to catecholamines because of increased numbers of beta receptors .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in the treatment of angina and hypertension , there are also situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
For example , in patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
Beta - adrenergic blockade may worsen A - V block by preventing the necessary facilitating effects of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and it may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Labetalol hydrochloride is completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with peak plasma levels occurring 1 to 2 hours after oral administration .
The relative bioavailability of labetalol hydrochloride tablets compared to an oral solution is 100 % .
The absolute bioavailability ( fraction of drug reaching systemic circulation ) of labetalol when compared to an intravenous infusion is 25 % ; this is due to extensive " first - pass " metabolism .
Despite " first - pass " metabolism , there is a linear relationship between oral doses of 100 mg to 3000 mg and peak plasma levels .
The absolute bioavailability of labetalol is increased when administered with food .
The plasma half - life of labetalol following oral administration is about 6 to 8 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of labetalol during repetitive dosing are reached by about the third day of dosing .
Inpatients with decreased hepatic or renal function , the elimination half - life of labetalol is not altered ; however , the relative bioavailability in hepatically impaired patients is increased due to decreased " first - pass " metabolism .
The metabolism of labetalol is mainly through conjugation to glucuronide metabolites .
These metabolites are present in plasma and are excreted in the urine and , via the bile , into the feces .
Approximately 55 % to 60 % of a dose appears in the urine as conjugates or unchanged labetalol within the first 24 hours of dosing .
Labetalol has been shown to cross the placental barrier in humans .
Only negligible amounts of the drug crossed the blood - brain barrier in animal studies .
Labetalol is approximately 50 % protein bound .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol hydrochloride from the general circulation ( < 1 % ) .
Elderly Patients Some pharmacokinetic studies indicate that the elimination of labetalol is reduced in elderly patients .
Therefore , although elderly patients may initiate therapy at the currently recommended dosage of 100 mg b . i . d . , elderly patients will generally require lower maintenance dosages than nonelderly patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated in the management of hypertension .
Labetalol hydrochloride tablets USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide and loop diuretics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in bronchial asthma , overt cardiac failure , greater than first degree heart block , cardiogenic shock , severe bradycardia , other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product ( see WARNINGS ) .
Beta - blockers , even those with apparent cardio selectivity , should not be used in patients with a history of obstructive airway disease , including asthma .
WARNINGS Hepatic Injury Severe hepatocellular injury , confirmed by rechallenge in at least one case , occurs rarely with labetalol therapy .
The hepatic injury is usually reversible , but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported .
Injury has occurred after both short - and long - term treatment and may be slowly progressive despite minimal symptomatology .
Similar hepatic events have been reported with a related research compound , dilevalol hydrochloride , including two deaths .
Dilevalol hydrochloride is one of the four isomers of labetalol hydrochloride .
Thus , for patients taking labetalol , periodic determination of suitable hepatic laboratory tests would be appropriate .
Appropriate laboratory testing should be done at the first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction ( e . g . pruritus , dark urine , persistent anorexia , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , or unexplained " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If the patient has laboratory evidence of liver injury or jaundice , labetalol should be stopped and not restarted .
Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure .
Beta blockade carries a potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
Although beta - blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , if necessary , labetalol hydrochloride can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are well compensated .
Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol hydrochloride .
Labetalol hydrochloride does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be fully digitalized and / or be given a diuretic and the response should be observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic , therapy with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be withdrawn ( gradually , if possible ) .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol hydrochloride discontinuation .
However , hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta - blocker therapy ; exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy .
When discontinuing chronically administered labetalol hydrochloride tablets , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , labetalol hydrochloride tablet administration should be reinstituted promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with labetalol hydrochloride tablets abruptly in patients being treated for hypertension .
Non allergic bronchospasm ( e . g . chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) patients with bronchospastic disease should , in general , not receive beta - blockers .
Labetalol hydrochloride tablets may be used with caution , however , in patients who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive agents .
It is prudent , if labetalol hydrochloride tablets are used , to use the smallest effective dose , so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta - agonists is minimized .
Pheochromocytoma Labetalol hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma .
However , paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor ; therefore , use caution when administering labetalol hydrochloride to patients with pheochromocytoma .
Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia Beta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms ( e . g . tachycardia ) of acute hypoglycemia .
This is especially important with labile diabetics .
Beta - blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia ; it may therefore be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawing beta - blocking therapy before major surgery is controversial .
Protracted severe hypotension and difficulty in restarting or maintaining a heartbeat have been reported with beta - blockers .
The effect of labetalol hydrochloride ' s alpha - adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting .
A synergism between labetalol hydrochloride and halothane anesthesia has been shown ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Hepatic Function Labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function since metabolism of the drug may be diminished .
Jaundice or Hepatic Dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS As with all drugs with beta - blocking activity , certain advice to patients being treated with labetalol hydrochloride is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
While no incident of the abrupt withdrawal phenomenon ( exacerbation of angina pectoris ) has been reported with labetalol hydrochloride , dosing with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should not be interrupted or discontinued without a physician ' s advice .
Patients being treated with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should consult a physician at any signs or symptoms of impending cardiac failure or hepatic dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Also , transient scalp tingling may occur , usually when treatment with labetalol hydrochloride tablets is initiated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Laboratory Tests As with any new drug given over prolonged periods , laboratory parameters should be observed over regular intervals .
In patients with concomitant illnesses , such as impaired renal function , appropriate tests should be done to monitor these conditions .
DRUG INTERACTIONS In one survey , 2 . 3 % of patients taking labetalol hydrochloride in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor as compared to 0 . 7 % reported to occur with labetalol hydrochloride alone .
The contribution of each of the treatments to this adverse reaction is unknown but the possibility of a drug interaction cannot be excluded .
Drugs possessing beta - blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta - receptor agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm ; therefore , doses greater than the normal anti - asthmatic dose of beta - agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required .
Cimetidine has been shown to increase the bioavailability of labetalol hydrochloride .
Since this could be explained either by enhanced absorption or by an alteration of hepatic metabolism of labetalol hydrochloride , special care should be used in establishing the dose required for blood pressure control in such patients .
Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol hydrochloride .
During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol hydrochloride in association with halothane , high concentrations ( 3 % or above ) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure .
The anesthesiologist should be informed when a patient is receiving labetalol hydrochloride .
Labetalol hydrochloride blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effect .
If labetalol hydrochloride is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris , additional antihypertensive effects may occur .
Care should be taken if labetalol is used concomitantly with calcium antagonists of the verapamil type .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of labetalol metabolites in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary catecholamines , metanephrine , normetanephrine and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods .
In screening patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma and being treated with labetalol hydrochloride , a specific method , such as a high performance liquid chromatographic assay with solid phase extraction ( e . g . J . Chromatogr 385 : 241 , 1987 ) should be employed in determining levels of catecholamines .
Labetalol hydrochloride has also been reported to produce a false - positive test for amphetamine when screening urine for the presence of drugs using the commercially available assay methods Toxi - LabA ® ( thin - layer chromatographic assay ) and Emit - d . a . u . ® ( radioenzymatic assay ) .
When patients being treated with labetalol have a positive urine test for amphetamine using these techniques , confirmation should be made by using more specific methods , such as a gas chromatographic - mass spectrometer technique .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term oral dosing studies with labetalol hydrochloride for 18 months in mice and for 2 years in rats showed no evidence of carcinogenesis .
Studies with labetalol hydrochloride using dominant lethal assays in rats and mice and exposing microorganisms according to modified Ames tests , showed no evidence of mutagenesis .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic studies were performed with labetalol in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to approximately six and four times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
No reproducible evidence of fetal malformations was observed .
Increased fetal resorptions were seen in both species at doses approximating the MRHD .
A teratology study performed with labetalol in rabbits at intravenous doses up to 1 . 7 times the MRHD revealed no evidence of drug - related harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Labetalol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia and respiratory depression have been reported in infants of mothers who were treated with labetalol hydrochloride for hypertension during pregnancy .
Oral administration of labetalol to rats during late gestation through weaning at doses of two to four times the MRHD caused a decrease in neonatal survival .
Labor and Delivery Labetalol hydrochloride given to pregnant women with hypertension did not appear to affect the usual course of labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Small amounts of labetalol ( approximately 0 . 004 % of the maternal dose ) are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when labetalol hydrochloride tablets are administered to a nursing woman ..
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Elderly Patients As in the general population , some elderly patients ( 60 years of age and older ) have experienced orthostatic hypotension , dizziness or lightheadedness during treatment with labetalol .
Because elderly patients are generally more likely than younger patients to experience orthostatic symptoms , they should be cautioned about the possibility of such side effects during treatment with labetalol .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects are mild and transient and occur early in the course of treatment .
In controlled clinical trials of 3 to 4 months duration , discontinuation of labetalol hydrochloride tablets due to one or more adverse effects was required in 7 % of all patients .
In these same trials , other agents with solely beta - blocking activity used in the control groups led to discontinuation in 8 % to 10 % of patients and acentrally acting alpha - agonist led to discontinuation in 30 % of patients .
The incidence rates of adverse reactions listed in the following table were derived from multicenter controlled clinical trials , comparing labetalol hydrochloride , placebo , metoprolol and propranolol , over treatment periods of 3 and 4 months .
Where the frequency of adverse effects for labetalol hydrochloride and placebo is similar , causal relationship is uncertain .
The rates are based on adverse reactions considered probably drug related by the investigator .
If all reports are considered , the rates are somewhat higher ( e . g . dizziness 20 % , nausea 14 % , fatigue 11 % ) , but the overall conclusions are unchanged .
Labetalol Hydrochloride ( N = 227 ) % Placebo ( N = 98 ) % Propranolol ( N = 84 ) % Metoprolol ( N = 49 ) % Body as a whole Fatigue 5 0 12 12 Asthenia 1 1 1 0 Headache 2 1 1 2 Gastrointestinal Nausea 6 1 1 2 Vomiting < 1 0 0 0 Dyspepsia 3 1 1 0 Abdominal pain 0 0 1 2 Diarrhea < 1 0 2 0 Taste distortion 1 0 0 0 Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems Dizziness 11 3 4 4 Paresthesias < 1 0 0 0 Drowsiness < 1 2 2 2 Autonomic Nervous System Nasal stuffiness 3 0 0 0 Ejaculation failure 2 0 0 0 Impotence 1 0 1 3 Increased sweating < 1 0 0 0 Cardiovascular Edema 1 0 0 0 Postural hypotension 1 0 0 0 Bradycardia 0 0 5 12 Respiratory Dyspnea 2 0 1 2 Skin Rash 1 0 0 0 Special Senses Vision abnormality 1 0 0 0 Vertigo 2 1 0 0 The adverse effects were reported spontaneously and are representative of the incidence of adverse effects that may be observed in a properly selected hypertensive patient population , i . e . , a group excluding patients with bronchospastic disease , overt congestive heart failure , or other contraindications to beta - blocker therapy .
Clinical trials also included studies utilizing daily doses up to 2 , 400 mg in more severely hypertensive patients .
Certain of the side effects increased with increasing dose as shown in the table below which depicts the entire U . S . therapeutic trials data base for adverse reactions that are clearly or possibly dose related .
Labetalol Hydrochloride DailyDose ( mg ) 200 300 400 600 800 900 1200 1600 2400 Number of Patients 522 181 606 608 503 117 411 242 175 Dizziness ( % ) 2 3 3 3 5 1 9 13 16 Fatigue 2 1 4 4 5 3 7 6 10 Nausea < 1 0 1 2 4 0 7 11 19 Vomiting 0 0 < 1 < 1 < 1 0 1 2 3 Dyspepsia 1 0 2 1 1 0 2 2 4 Paresthesias 2 0 2 2 1 1 2 5 5 Nasal Stuffiness 1 1 2 2 2 2 4 5 6 Ejaculation Failure 0 2 1 2 3 0 4 3 5 Impotence 1 1 1 1 2 4 3 4 3 Edema 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 2 2 In addition , a number of other less common adverse events have been reported : Body as a Whole : Fever .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , and rarely , syncope , bradycardia , heart block .
Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems : Paresthesia , most frequently described as scalp tingling .
In most cases , it was mild and transient and usually occurred at the beginning of treatment .
Collagen Disorders : Systemic lupus erythematosus ; positive antinuclear factor ( ANF ) .
Eyes : Dry eyes .
Immunological System : Anti mitochondrial antibodies .
Liver and Biliary System : Hepatic necrosis ; hepatitis ; cholestatic jaundice ; elevated liver function tests .
Musculoskeletal System : Muscle cramps ; toxic myopathy .
Respiratory System : Bronchospasm ..
Skin and Appendages : Rashes of various types , such as generalized maculopapular ; lichenoid ; urticarial ; bullous lichen planus ; psoriaform ; facial erythema ; Peyronie ' s disease , reversible alopecia .
Urinary System : Difficulty in micturition , including acute urinary bladder retention ..
Hypersensitivity : Rare reports of hypersensitivity ( e . g . rash , urticaria , pruritus , angioedema , dyspnea ) and anaphylactoid reactions .
Following approval for marketing in the United Kingdom , a monitored release survey involving approximately 6 , 800 patients was conducted for further safety and efficacy evaluation of this product .
Results of this survey indicate that the type , severity and incidence of adverse effects were comparable to those cited above .
Potential Adverse Effects In addition , other adverse effects not listed above have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium and decreased performance on psychometrics .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of A - V block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Allergic : Fever combined with aching and sore throat ; laryngospasm ; respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ; thrombocytopenic or non thrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric artery thrombosis ; ischemic colitis .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with labetalol hydrochloride .
Clinical Laboratory Tests There have been reversible increases of serum transaminases in 4 % of patients treated with labetalol hydrochloride and tested , and more rarely , reversible increases in blood urea .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with labetalol hydrochloride causes excessive hypotension that is posture sensitive and sometimes excessive bradycardia .
Patients should be placed supine and their legs raised , if necessary , to improve the blood supply to the brain .
If overdosage with labetalol hydrochloride follows oral ingestion , gastric lavage or pharmacologically induced emesis ( using syrup of ipecac ) may be useful for removal of the drug shortly after ingestion .
The following additional measures should be employed if necessary : Excessive bradycardia - administer atropine or epinephrine .
Cardiac failure - administer a digitalis glycoside and a diuretic .
Dopamine or dobutamine may also be useful .
Hypotension - administer vasopressors , e . g . norepinephrine .
There is pharmacological evidence that norepinephrine may be the drug of choice .
Bronchospasm - administer epinephrine and / or an aerosolized beta2 - agonist .
Seizures – administer diazepam .
In severe beta - blocker overdose resulting in hypotension and / or bradycardia , glucagon has been shown to be effective when administered in large doses ( 5 mg to 10 mg rapidly over 30 seconds , followed by continuous infusion of 5 mg / hr that can be reduced as the patient improves ) .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol hydrochloride from the general circulation ( < 1 % ) .
The oral LD50 value of labetalol hydrochloride in the mouse is approximately 600 mg / kg and in the rat is greater than 2 g / kg .
The intravenous LD50 in these species is 50 mg / kg to 60 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
The recommended initial dose is 100 mg twice daily whether used alone or added to a diuretic regimen .
After 2 or 3 days , using standing blood pressure as an indicator , dosage may be titrated in increments of 100 mg b . i . d . every 2 or 3 days .
The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol hydrochloride tablets is between 200 mg and 400 mg twice daily .
Since the full antihypertensive effect of labetalol hydrochloride tablets is usually seen within the first 1 to 3 hours of the initial dose or dose increment , the assurance of a lack of an exaggerated hypotensive response can be clinically established in the office setting .
The antihypertensive effects of continued dosing can be measured at subsequent visits , approximately 12 hours after a dose , to determine whether further titration is necessary .
Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1200 mg to 2400 mg per day , with or without thiazide diuretics .
Should side effects ( principally nausea or dizziness ) occur with these doses administered b . i . d . ( twice daily ) , the same total daily dose administered t . i . d . ( three times daily ) may improve tolerability and facilitate further titration .
Titration increments should not exceed 200 mg b . i . d . ( twice daily ) .
When a diuretic is added , an additive antihypertensive effect can be expected .
In some cases this may necessitate a labetalol hydrochloride tablet dosage adjustment .
As with most antihypertensive drugs , optimal dosages of labetalol hydrochloride tablets are usually lower in patients also receiving a diuretic .
When transferring a patient from other antihypertensive drugs , labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively decreased .
Elderly Patients As in the general patient population , labetalol therapy may be initiated at 100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg b . i . d . as required for control of blood pressure .
Since some elderly patients eliminate labetalol more slowly , however , adequate control of blood pressure may be achieved at a lower maintenance dosage compared to the general population .
The majority of elderly patients will require between 100 mg and 200 mg b . i . d . HOW SUPPLIED Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP for oral administration are available as : Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 100 mg are yellow colored , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with " 7 " and " 98 " on either side of score line on one side and plain on other side and are supplied as : Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets per blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 7109 - 61 Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 200 mg are white to off white colored , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with " 7 " and " 99 " on either side of score line on one side and plain on other side and are supplied as : Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets per blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 7110 - 61 Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 300 mg are light green colored , round , biconvex , beveled edge , film - coated tablets debossed with " 800 " on one side and plain on other side and are supplied as : Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets per blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 7111 - 61 Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be Stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure as required .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
This product ' s package insert may have been updated .
For current package insert , please visit www . zydususa . com Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Matoda , Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number Rev . : 05 / 17 Package / Label Display Panel Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 100 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 200 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 300 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
