Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 2 . 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you have very sensitive skin are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Dampen skin and massage a thin layer onto the entire affected area and rinse thoroughly one to two times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other Information Store at 20 ° - 25 ° ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Water , C12 - 14 Alkyl Olefin Sulfonate , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Hydroxide , Phenoxyethanol , Disodium EDTA , Allantoin , Panthenol , Ethylhexylglycerin Questions ?
858 - 859 - 1188 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 ml Tube Box Curology Acne Cleanser Gentle clearing face wash 2 . 5 % benzoyl peroxide treatment DERMATOLOGIST FOUNDED • DEVELOPED • TESTED 80 ml / 2 . 7 fl oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
