Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION This product is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solutions containing isotonic concentrations of electrolytes in water for injection .
The solution is isotonic .
The solution is administered by intravenous infusion for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without minimal carbohydrate calories .
Each 100 mL of Ringer ' s Injection , USP contains sodium chloride 860 mg , potassium chloride 30 mg and calcium chloride , dihydrate 33 mg .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
A liter provides 147 mEq sodium ( Na + ) , 4 mEq potassium ( K + ) , 4 mEq calcium ( Ca + + ) and 155 mEq chloride ( Cl − ) .
The electrolyte content is isotonic ( 309 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
in relation to the extracellular fluid ( approx .
280 mOsmol / liter ) .
The pH of the solution is 5 . 4 ( 5 . 0 − 7 . 5 ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
The solution is a parenteral fluid , nutrient and / or electrolyte replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 ∙ H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride , dihydrate ( CaCl2 ∙ 2 H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCI , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solution inside the plastic container also can leach out certain chemical components in very small amounts before the expiration period is attained .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , this solution provides a source of water and electrolytes with or without minimal carbohydrate calories .
The electrolyte content resembles that of the principal ionic constituents of normal plasma and the solution therefore is suitable for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without carbohydrate calories .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Potassium is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
It is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without minimal carbohydrate calories , as required by the clinical condition of the patient .
WARNINGS Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered simultaneously through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Solutions which contain potassium should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate ions should be done with great care where there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate ions , as in severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Potassium containing solutions should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ' s Injection , USP , .
It is also not known whether this injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts , and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open : Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Add Medication • Prepare additive port .
• Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
• The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) • Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• Suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED This solution is supplied in a single - dose flexible plastic container as follows : NDC No .
Product Name Container Size ( mL ) 0409 – 7982 – 09 Ringer ' s Inj . , USP 1000 0990 - 7982 - 09 Ringer ' s Inj . , USP 1000 ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : March , 2020 IFU0000173 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Label 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 7982 - 09 RINGER ' S INJECTION , USP EACH 100 mL CONTAINS SODIUM CHLORIDE 860 mg ; POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 30 mg ; CALCIUM CHLORIDE , DIHYDRATE 33 mg IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
MAY CONTAIN HCl OR NaOH FOR pH ADJUSTMENT .
ELECTROLYTES PER 1000 mL : SODIUM 147 mEq ; POTASSIUM 4 mEq ; CALCIUM 4 mEq ; CHLORIDE 155 mEq .
309 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC . )
.
pH 5 . 4 ( 5 . 0 TO 7 . 5 ) .
DO NOT ADMINISTER CALCIUM CONTAINING SOLUTIONS CONCURRENTLY WITH STORED BLOOD .
ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
FOR INTRAVENOUS OR SUBCUTANEOUS USE .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Rx ONLY 3 V CONTAINS DEHP IMP0000056 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Overwrap TO OPEN TEAR AT NOTCH 2 HDPE DO NOT REMOVE FROM OVERWRAP UNTIL READY FOR USE .
AFTER REMOVING THE OVERWRAP , CHECK FOR MINUTE LEAKS BY SQUEEZING CONTAINER FIRMLY .
IF LEAKS ARE FOUND , DISCARD SOLUTION AS STERILITY MAY BE IMPAIRED .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE : ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 25 ° C ) .
AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
SEE INSERT .
98 - 4321 - R14 - 3 / 98 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
