1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REYVOW ® is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults .
REYVOW ® is a serotonin ( 5 - HT ) 1 F receptor agonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use REYVOW is not indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use REYVOW is not indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of REYVOW is 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg taken orally , as needed .
No more than one dose should be taken in 24 hours , and REYVOW should not be taken unless the patient can wait at least 8 hours between dosing and driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
A second dose of REYVOW has not been shown to be effective for the same migraine attack .
The safety of treating an average of more than 4 migraine attacks in a 30 - day period has not been established .
REYVOW may be taken with or without food .
Administer tablets whole ; do not split , crush , or chew .
• The recommended dose is 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg taken orally , as needed .
( 2 ) • No more than one dose should be taken in 24 hours .
( 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Administer tablets whole .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS REYVOW ( lasmiditan ) tablets are available in two strengths : • 50 mg tablet : light gray , oval , film coated , tablets with “ L - 50 ” debossed on one side and “ 4312 ” on the other • 100 mg tablet : light purple , oval , film coated , tablets with “ L - 100 ” debossed on one side and “ 4491 ” on the other Tablets : 50 mg , 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Driving Impairment : Advise patients not to drive or operate machinery until at least 8 hours after taking each dose of REYVOW .
Patients who cannot follow this advice should not take REYVOW .
Patients may not be able to assess their own driving competence and the degree of impairment caused by REYVOW .
( 5 . 1 ) • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depression : REYVOW may cause CNS depression and should be used with caution if used in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • Serotonin Syndrome : Reactions consistent with serotonin syndrome were reported in patients treated with REYVOW .
Discontinue REYVOW if symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Medication Overuse Headache : Detoxification may be necessary .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Driving Impairment REYVOW may cause significant driving impairment .
In a driving study , administration of single 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg doses of REYVOW significantly impaired subjects ' ability to drive [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Additionally , more sleepiness was reported at 8 hours following a single dose of REYVOW compared to placebo .
Advise patients not to engage in potentially hazardous activities requiring complete mental alertness , such as driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery , for at least 8 hours after each dose of REYVOW .
Patients who cannot follow this advice should not take REYVOW .
Prescribers and patients should be aware that patients may not be able to assess their own driving competence and the degree of impairment caused by REYVOW .
5 . 2 Central Nervous System Depression REYVOW may cause central nervous system ( CNS ) depression , including dizziness and sedation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the potential for REYVOW to cause sedation , other cognitive and / or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions , and driving impairment , REYVOW should be used with caution if used in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should be warned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness for at least 8 hours after REYVOW is taken [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome In clinical trials , reactions consistent with serotonin syndrome were reported in patients treated with REYVOW who were not taking any other drugs associated with serotonin syndrome .
Serotonin syndrome may also occur with REYVOW during coadministration with serotonergic drugs [ e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , and monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ] .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular signs ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , and / or gastrointestinal signs and symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication .
Discontinue REYVOW if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
5 . 4 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs ( e . g . , ergotamines , triptans , opioids , or a combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month ) may lead to exacerbation of headache ( i . e . , medication overuse headache ) .
Medication overuse headache may present as migraine - like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks .
Detoxification of patients including withdrawal of the overused drugs and treatment of withdrawal symptoms ( which often includes a transient worsening of headache ) may be necessary .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Driving Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Central Nervous System Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Medication Overuse Headache [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and > placebo ) were dizziness , fatigue , paresthesia , and sedation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of REYVOW has been evaluated in 4 , 878 subjects who received at least one dose of REYVOW .
In 2 placebo - controlled , Phase 3 trials in adult patients with migraine ( Studies 1 and 2 ) , a total of 3 , 177 patients received REYVOW 50 , 100 , or 200 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Of the REYVOW - treated patients in these 2 studies , approximately 84 % were female , 78 % were White , 18 % were Black , and 18 % were of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity .
The mean age at study entry was 42 . 4 years ( range 18 to 81 ) .
Long - term safety was assessed for 2 , 030 patients , dosing intermittently for up to 12 months in a long - term safety study .
Of these , 728 patients were exposed to 100 mg or 200 mg for at least 3 months , 361 patients were exposed to these doses for at least 6 months , and 180 patients were exposed to these doses for at least 12 months , all of whom treated at least 2 migraine attacks per month on average .
In that study , 14 % ( 148 out of 1 , 039 ) in the 200 mg dose group , and 11 % ( 112 out of 991 ) in the 100 mg dose group withdrew from the trial because of an adverse event .
The most common adverse event resulting in discontinuation in the long - term safety study ( greater than 2 % ) was dizziness .
Table 1 shows adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with REYVOW and more frequently than in patients who received placebo in Studies 1 and 2 .
The most common adverse reactions ( at least 5 % ) were dizziness , fatigue , paresthesia , and sedation .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % and at a Frequency Greater than Placebo in Studies 1 and 2 a Fatigue includes the adverse reaction related terms asthenia and malaise .
b Paresthesia includes the adverse reaction related terms paresthesia oral , hypoesthesia , and hypoesthesia oral .
c Sedation includes the adverse reaction related term somnolence .
Adverse Reaction REYVOW 50 mg N = 654 % REYVOW 100 mg N = 1265 % REYVOW 200 mg N = 1258 % Placebo N = 1262 % Dizziness 9 15 17 3 Fatiguea 4 5 6 1 Paresthesiab 3 7 9 2 Sedationc 6 6 7 2 Nausea and / or Vomiting 3 4 4 2 Muscle Weakness 1 1 2 0 Less Common Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 2 % of REYVOW - treated patients but more frequently than in patients receiving placebo : vertigo , incoordination , lethargy , visual impairment , feeling abnormal , feeling hot or feeling cold , palpitations , anxiety , tremor , restlessness , sleep abnormalities including sleep disturbance and abnormal dreams , muscle spasm , limb discomfort , cognitive changes , confusion , euphoric mood , chest discomfort , speech abnormalities , dyspnea , and hallucinations .
Hypersensitivity Events of hypersensitivity , including angioedema , rash and photosensitivity reaction , occurred in patients treated with REYVOW .
In controlled trials , hypersensitivity was reported in 0 . 2 % of patients treated with REYVOW compared to no patients who received placebo .
If a serious or severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs , initiate appropriate therapy and discontinue administration of REYVOW .
Vital Sign Changes Heart Rate Decrease REYVOW was associated with mean decreases in heart rate of 5 to 10 beats per minute ( bpm ) while placebo was associated with mean decreases of 2 to 5 bpm .
Consider evaluating heart rate after administration of REYVOW in patients for whom these changes may not be tolerated , including patients taking other medications that lower heart rate [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Blood Pressure Increase REYVOW may increase blood pressure following a single dose .
In non - elderly healthy volunteers there was a mean increase from baseline in ambulatory systolic and diastolic blood pressure of approximately 2 to 3 mm Hg one hour after administration of 200 mg REYVOW compared to a mean increase of up to 1 mm Hg for placebo .
In healthy volunteers over 65 years of age , there was a mean increase from baseline in ambulatory systolic blood pressure of 7 mm Hg one hour after administration of 200 mg REYVOW compared to a mean increase of 4 mm Hg for placebo .
By 2 hours , there were no increases in mean blood pressure with REYVOW compared to placebo .
REYVOW has not been well studied in patients with ischemic heart disease .
Consider evaluating blood pressure after administration of REYVOW in patients for whom these changes may not be tolerated .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • REYVOW may further lower heart rate when administered with heart rate lowering drugs .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 CNS Depressants Concomitant administration of REYVOW and alcohol or other CNS depressant drugs has not been evaluated in clinical studies .
Because of the potential of REYVOW to cause sedation , as well as other cognitive and / or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions , REYVOW should be used with caution if used in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Serotonergic Drugs Concomitant administration of REYVOW and drugs ( e . g . , SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , MAO inhibitors , trazodone , etc . ) , over - the counter medications ( e . g . , dextromethorphan ) , or herbal supplements ( e . g . , St . John ' s Wort ) that increase serotonin may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Use REYVOW with caution in patients taking medications that increase serotonin .
7 . 3 Heart Rate Lowering Drugs REYVOW has been associated with a lowering of heart rate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In a drug interaction study , addition of a single 200 mg dose of REYVOW to propranolol decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute compared to propranolol alone , for a mean maximum of 19 beats per minute .
Use REYVOW with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that lower heart rate if this magnitude of heart rate decrease may pose a concern .
7 . 4 P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) Transporter Substrates Coadministration of REYVOW with P - gp substrates where a small change in substrate plasma concentration may lead to serious toxicities ( e . g . , digoxin ) is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • REYVOW has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) and its use in these patients is not recommended .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to REYVOW during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register pregnant patients , or pregnant women may enroll themselves in the registry by calling 1 - 833 - 464 - 4724 .
To learn more please call or visit www . migrainepregnancyregistry . com .
Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of REYVOW in pregnant women .
In animal studies , adverse effects on development ( increased incidences of fetal abnormalities , increased embryofetal and offspring mortality , decreased fetal body weight ) occurred at maternal exposures less than ( rabbit ) or greater than ( rat ) those observed clinically ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
The estimated rates of major birth defects ( 2 . 2 % to 2 . 9 % ) and miscarriage ( 17 % ) among deliveries to women with migraine are similar to rates reported in women without migraine .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Published data have suggested that women with migraine may be at increased risk for preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of lasmiditan ( 0 , 100 , 175 , or 250 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis resulted in increases in skeletal variations at the mid and high doses and reduced fetal body weight at the high dose .
The high dose was associated with maternal toxicity .
At the no - effect dose ( 100 mg / kg / day ) for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rats , plasma exposure ( AUC ) was approximately 10 times that in humans at the MRHD .
Oral administration of lasmiditan ( 0 , 50 , 75 , or 115 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis resulted in malformations ( skeletal and visceral ) , increases in skeletal variations and embryofetal mortality , and decreased fetal body weight at the highest dose tested , which was associated with maternal toxicity .
Plasma exposure ( AUC ) at the no - effect dose ( 75 mg / kg / day ) for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rabbits was less than that in humans at the MRHD .
Oral administration of lasmiditan ( 0 , 100 , 150 , or 225 mg / kg / day ) to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in increases in stillbirth and neonatal mortality at the highest dose tested , which was associated with maternal toxicity and delayed parturition .
Plasma exposure ( AUC ) at the no - effect dose ( 150 mg / kg / day ) for adverse effects on pre - and postnatal development was approximately 16 times that in humans at the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lasmiditan in human milk , the effects of lasmiditan on the breastfed infant , or the effects of lasmiditan on milk production .
Excretion of lasmiditan and / or metabolites into milk , at levels approximately 3 times those in maternal plasma , was observed in lactating rats following oral administration of lasmiditan .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for REYVOW and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from REYVOW or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In controlled clinical trials , dizziness occurred more frequently in patients who were at least 65 years of age ( 19 % for REYVOW , 2 % for placebo ) compared to patients who were less than 65 years of age ( 14 % for REYVOW , 3 % for placebo ) .
A larger increase in systolic blood pressure also occurred in patients 65 years of age and older compared to patients who were less than 65 years of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Clinical studies of REYVOW did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether there is a difference in efficacy in these patients compared to younger subjects .
However , in clinical pharmacology studies , no clinically relevant effect on exposure to REYVOW was observed in elderly subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A or B ) .
REYVOW has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) and its use in these patients is not recommended .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance REYVOW contains lasmiditan , a Schedule V controlled substance ( CV ) .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse is the intentional , non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , for its desirable psychological or physiological effects .
In a human abuse potential ( HAP ) study in recreational poly - drug users ( n = 58 ) , single oral therapeutic doses ( 100 and 200 mg ) and a supratherapeutic dose ( 400 mg ) of REYVOW were compared to alprazolam ( 2 mg ) ( C - IV ) and placebo .
With all doses of REYVOW , subjects reported statistically significantly higher “ drug liking ” scores than placebo , indicating that REYVOW has abuse potential .
In comparison to alprazolam , subjects who received REYVOW reported statistically significantly lower “ drug liking ” scores .
In the HAP study , euphoric mood occurred to a similar extent with REYVOW 200 mg , REYVOW 400 mg , and alprazolam 2 mg ( 43 - 49 % ) .
A feeling of relaxation was noted in more subjects on alprazolam ( 22 . 6 % ) than with any dose of REYVOW ( 7 - 11 % ) .
Phase 2 and 3 studies indicate that , at therapeutic doses , REYVOW produced adverse events of euphoria and hallucinations to a greater extent than placebo .
However these events occur at a low frequency ( about 1 % of patients ) .
Evaluate patients for risk of drug abuse and observe them for signs of lasmiditan misuse or abuse .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical withdrawal was not observed in healthy subjects following abrupt cessation after 7 daily doses of lasmiditan 200 mg or 400 mg .
11 DESCRIPTION REYVOW ( lasmiditan ) is a serotonin ( 5 - HT ) 1 F receptor agonist for oral administration .
The chemical name of lasmiditan hemisuccinate is 2 , 4 , 6 - trifluoro - N - [ 6 - ( 1 - methylpiperidine - 4 - carbonyl ) pyridine - 2 - yl ] benzamide hemisuccinate .
It has the empirical formula of C19H18F3N3O2 • 0 . 5 [ C4H6O4 ] and a molecular weight of 436 . 41 ( hemisuccinate ) .
Lasmiditan hemisuccinate has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lasmiditan hemisuccinate is a white , crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in ethanol , and soluble in methanol .
A 1 mg / mL aqueous solution of lasmiditan hemisuccinate has a pH of 6 . 8 at ambient conditions .
REYVOW 50 mg tablets contain 50 mg lasmiditan ( equivalent to 57 . 824 mg lasmiditan hemisuccinate ) and the inactive ingredients as follows : Excipients – croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate .
Color mixture ingredients – black ferric oxide , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , titanium dioxide .
REYVOW 100 mg tablets contain 100 mg lasmiditan ( equivalent to 115 . 65 mg lasmiditan hemisuccinate ) and the inactive ingredients as follows : Excipients – croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate .
Color mixture ingredients – black ferric oxide , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , red ferric oxide , talc , titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lasmiditan binds with high affinity to the 5 - HT1F receptor .
Lasmiditan presumably exerts its therapeutic effects in the treatment of migraine through agonist effects at the 5 - HT1F receptor ; however , the precise mechanism is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose two times the maximum recommended daily dose , REYVOW does not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration , lasmiditan is rapidly absorbed with a median tmax of 1 . 8 hours .
In patients with migraine , the absorption or pharmacokinetics of lasmiditan was not different during a migraine attack versus during the interictal period .
Effect of Food Coadministration of lasmiditan with a high - fat meal increased the mean lasmiditan Cmax and AUC values by 22 % and 19 % , respectively , and delayed the median tmax by 1 hour .
This difference in exposure is not expected to be clinically significant [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Lasmiditan was administered without regard to food in clinical efficacy studies .
Distribution The human plasma protein binding of lasmiditan is approximately 55 % to 60 % and independent of concentration between 15 and 500 ng / mL .
Elimination Lasmiditan was eliminated with a geometric mean t ½ value of approximately 5 . 7 hours .
No accumulation of lasmiditan was observed with daily dosing .
Lasmiditan is primarily eliminated via metabolism , with ketone reduction representing the major pathway .
Renal excretion is a minor route of lasmiditan clearance .
Metabolism Lasmiditan undergoes hepatic and extrahepatic metabolism primarily by non - CYP enzymes .
The following enzymes are not involved in metabolism of lasmiditan : MAO - A , MAO - B , flavin monooxygenase 3 , CYP450 reductase , xanthine oxidase , alcohol dehydrogenase , aldehyde dehydrogenase , and aldo - keto reductases .
Lasmiditan is also metabolized to M7 ( oxidation on piperidine ring ) and M18 ( combination of M7 and M8 pathways ) .
These metabolites are considered pharmacologically inactive .
Excretion Recovery of unchanged lasmiditan in urine was low and accounted for approximately 3 % of the dose .
Metabolite S - M8 represented approximately 66 % of the dose in urine , with the majority of recovery within 48 hours postdose .
Specific Populations Age , Sex , Race / Ethnicity , and Body Weight Based on a population pharmacokinetic ( PK ) analysis , age , sex , race / ethnicity , and body weight did not have a significant effect on the PK ( Cmax and AUC ) of lasmiditan .
Therefore , no dose adjustments are warranted based on age , sex , race / ethnicity , or body weight .
Geriatric Use In a clinical pharmacology study , administration of lasmiditan to subjects 65 years of age or older demonstrated 26 % greater exposure in AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) and 21 % higher Cmax , compared to subjects 45 years of age or less .
This difference in exposure is not expected to be clinically significant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Impairment In a clinical pharmacology study , administration of lasmiditan to subjects with severe renal impairment ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) demonstrated 18 % greater exposure in AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) and 13 % higher Cmax , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
No dose adjustment is required based on renal function .
Hepatic Impairment In a clinical pharmacology study , subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B , respectively ) demonstrated 11 % and 35 % , respectively , greater exposure [ AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) ] to lasmiditan , compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
The Cmax were higher by 19 % and 33 % , respectively , for subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
This difference in exposure is not expected to be clinically significant .
The use of lasmiditan has not been studied in subjects with severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Lasmiditan to Affect Other Drugs Drug Metabolizing Enzymes Lasmiditan is an in - vitro inhibitor of CYP2D6 but did not significantly inhibit the activity of other CYP450 enzymes .
Modeling and simulation of the impact of lasmiditan on the exposure of dextromethorphan , a recognized sensitive CYP2D6 substrate , indicate that lasmiditan is unlikely to exert clinically significant inhibition of CYP2D6 .
Lasmiditan , M7 , S - M8 , and [ S , R ] - M18 are not reversible or time - dependent inhibitors of monoamine oxidase A ( MAO - A ) .
Daily dosing of lasmiditan did not alter the PK of midazolam , caffeine , or tolbutamide , which are substrates of CYP3A , CYP1A2 , and CYP2C9 , respectively .
Coadministration of lasmiditan with sumatriptan , propranolol , or topiramate resulted in no clinically meaningful changes in exposure of these medicinal products .
Drug Transporters In a drug interaction study in healthy volunteers , co - administration of 200 mg REYVOW with dabigatran ( P - gp substrate ) increased the systemic exposures , AUC and Cmax , of dabigatran by 25 % and 22 % , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Co - administration of 200 mg REYVOW with rosuvastatin ( BCRP substrate ) did not affect exposures of rosuvastatin .
Lasmiditan inhibits OCT1 in - vitro .
However , in a drug - drug interaction study with lasmiditan and sumatriptan ( OCT1 substrate ) , no change in sumatriptan PK was observed .
Lasmiditan inhibits renal efflux transporters , MATE1 and MATE2 - K , in - vitro .
Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Lasmiditan Drug Metabolizing Enzymes Lasmiditan undergoes hepatic and extrahepatic metabolism primarily by non - CYP enzymes .
Therefore , it is unlikely that CYP inhibitors or inducers will affect lasmiditan pharmacokinetics .
Clinical studies of lasmiditan with sumatriptan , propranolol , or topiramate did not show any significant drug interaction potential .
Drug Transporters Lasmiditan is a substrate for P - gp in - vitro .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No drug - related tumors were observed following oral administration of lasmiditan to TgRasH2 mice at doses of up to 150 ( males ) or 250 ( females ) mg / kg / day for 26 weeks or to rats at doses of up to 75 mg / kg / day for 2 years .
Plasma exposures ( AUC ) at the highest dose tested in rats were approximately 15 times that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 200 mg / day .
Mutagenesis Lasmiditan was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells ) and in vivo ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus ) assays .
Impairment of Fertility Oral administration of lasmiditan to male ( 0 , 100 , 175 , or 200 mg / kg / day ) or female ( 0 , 100 , 150 , or 200 mg / kg / day ) rats prior to and during mating and continuing in females to Gestation Day 7 resulted in no adverse effects on fertility or reproductive performance .
Plasma exposures ( AUC ) at the highest dose tested ( 200 mg / kg / day ) were approximately 26 times that in humans at the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Migraine The efficacy of REYVOW in the acute treatment of migraine was demonstrated in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials [ Study 1 ( NCT02439320 ) and Study 2 ( NCT02605174 ) ] .
These studies enrolled patients with a history of migraine with and without aura according to the International Classification of Headache Disorders ( ICHD - II ) diagnostic criteria .
Patients were predominantly female ( 84 % ) , and White ( 78 % ) , with a mean age of 42 years ( range 18 - 81 ) .
Twenty - two percent of patients were taking preventive medication for migraine at baseline .
Study 1 randomized patients to REYVOW 100 mg ( n = 744 ) , or 200 mg ( n = 745 ) or placebo ( n = 742 ) and Study 2 randomized patients to REYVOW 50 mg ( n = 750 ) , 100 mg ( n = 754 ) , or 200 mg ( n = 750 ) or placebo ( n = 751 ) .
Patients were allowed to take a rescue medication 2 hours after taking study drug ; however , opioids , barbiturates , triptans , and ergots were not allowed within 24 hours of study drug administration .
The primary efficacy analyses were conducted in patients that treated a migraine with moderate to severe pain within 4 hours of the onset of the attack .
The efficacy of REYVOW was established by an effect on pain freedom at 2 hours and Most Bothersome Symptom ( MBS ) freedom at 2 hours compared to placebo for Studies 1 and 2 .
Pain freedom was defined as a reduction of moderate or severe headache pain to no pain , and MBS freedom was defined as the absence of the self - identified MBS ( photophobia , phonophobia , or nausea ) .
Among patients who selected an MBS , the most commonly selected MBS was photophobia ( 54 % ) , followed by nausea ( 24 % ) , and phonophobia ( 22 % ) .
In both studies , the percentage of patients achieving pain freedom and MBS freedom 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving REYVOW at all doses compared to those receiving placebo ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Migraine Efficacy Endpoints after Treatment for Studies 1 and 2 Study 1 Study 2 REYVOW 100 mg REYVOW 200 mg Placebo REYVOW 50 mg REYVOW 100 mg REYVOW 200 mg Placebo Pain Free at 2 hours N 498 503 515 544 523 521 534 % Responders 28 . 3 31 . 8 15 . 3 28 . 3 31 . 4 38 . 8 21 . 0 Difference from placebo ( % ) 13 16 . 5 7 . 3 10 . 4 17 . 8 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 0 . 006 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 MBS Free at 2 hours N 464 467 480 502 491 478 509 % Responders 41 . 2 40 . 7 29 . 6 40 . 8 44 . 0 48 . 7 33 . 2 Difference from placebo ( % ) 11 . 6 11 . 1 7 . 6 10 . 8 15 . 5 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 0 . 014 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Pain relief at 2 hours , defined as a reduction in migraine pain from moderate or severe to mild or none , was also evaluated ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Additional Migraine Efficacy Endpoint after Treatment for Studies 1 and 2 a The analysis of pain relief was descriptive and was not controlled for Type I error .
Study 1 Study 2 REYVOW 100 mg REYVOW 200 mg Placebo REYVOW 50 mg REYVOW 100 mg REYVOW 200 mg Placebo Pain Relief at 2 hoursa N 498 503 515 544 523 521 534 % Responders 54 . 0 55 . 3 40 . 0 55 . 9 61 . 4 61 . 0 45 . 1 Difference from placebo ( % ) 14 . 0 15 . 3 10 . 8 16 . 3 15 . 9 Figure 1 presents the percentage of patients achieving migraine pain freedom within 2 hours following treatment in Studies 1 and 2 .
Figure 1 : Percentage of Patients Achieving Migraine Pain Freedom within 2 Hours in Pooled Studies 1 and 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] a The 50 mg arm was only included in Study 2 .
Figure 2 presents the percentage of patients achieving MBS freedom within 2 hours in Studies 1 and 2 .
Figure 2 : Percentage of Patients Achieving MBS Freedom within 2 Hours in Pooled Studies 1 and 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] a The 50 mg arm was only included in Study 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Effects on Driving Driving performance was assessed at 90 minutes after administration of REYVOW 50 mg , 100 mg , 200 mg , alprazolam 1 mg , and placebo in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled , five - period crossover study in 90 healthy volunteers ( mean age 34 . 9 years ) using a computer - based driving simulation .
Driving performance was evaluated using a validated threshold established in a population with blood alcohol concentration of 0 . 05 % .
The primary outcome measure was the difference from placebo in the Standard Deviation of Lateral Position ( SDLP ) , a measure of driving performance .
A dose - dependent impairment of computer - based simulated driving performance was seen with all doses of REYVOW at 90 minutes after administration .
Driving performance was also assessed at 8 , 12 , and 24 hours after administration of REYVOW 100 mg or 200 mg , in a separate randomized , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled , four - period crossover study in 67 healthy volunteers ( mean age 32 . 8 years ) evaluating computer - based simulated driving performance using SDLP as the primary endpoint .
Diphenhydramine 50 mg was used as a positive control .
The mean SDLP did not reach the threshold for driving impairment at 8 hours or later after administration of REYVOW 100 or 200 mg .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied REYVOW ( lasmiditan ) 50 mg tablets are light gray , oval , film coated , tablets with “ L - 50 ” debossed on one side and “ 4312 ” on the other .
REYVOW ( lasmiditan ) 100 mg tablets are light purple , oval , film coated , tablets with “ L - 100 ” debossed on one side and “ 4491 ” on the other .
Strengths 50 mg 100 mg Tablet color Light gray Light purple Imprint ( debossed ) L - 50 4312 L - 100 4491 Carton of 8 NDC 0002 - 4312 - 08 NDC 0002 - 4491 - 08 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Driving Impairment – Advise patients not to engage in potentially hazardous activities requiring complete mental alertness , such as driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery for at least 8 hours after taking each dose of REYVOW .
Patients who cannot follow this advice should not take REYVOW .
Patients may not be able to assess their own driving competence and the degree of impairment caused by REYVOW [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
CNS Depression – Inform patients that REYVOW may cause dizziness and sedation .
Advise patients to use caution if taking REYVOW in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome – Caution patients about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of REYVOW , particularly during combined use with serotonergic medications such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , or MAO inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Medication Overuse Headache – Inform patients that use of drugs to treat migraine attacks for 10 or more days per month may lead to an exacerbation of headache , and encourage patients to record headache frequency and drug use ( e . g . , by keeping a headache diary ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity – Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious or severe hypersensitivity reaction [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Abuse and Dependence – Advise patients that REYVOW is a federally controlled substance because it has the potential to be abused [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
Advise patients to keep their medication secure .
Pregnancy • Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant during treatment or plan to become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to REYVOW during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Nursing Mothers – Inform patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Administration – Advise patients to swallow tablets whole ( do not split , crush , or chew ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Literature revised September 2022 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2019 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
REY - 0007 - USPI - 20220915 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 7 / 2022 Medication Guide REYVOW ® ( RAY - vow ) ( lasmiditan ) tablets , for oral use , CV What is the most important information I should know about REYVOW ?
• Do not drive or operate machinery for at least 8 hours after you take REYVOW , even if you feel well enough .
• You should not take REYVOW if you cannot wait at least 8 hours between taking REYVOW and driving or operating machinery .
What is REYVOW ?
REYVOW is a prescription medicine used for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults .
• REYVOW is not used as a preventive treatment of migraine .
• It is not known if REYVOW is safe and effective in children .
• REYVOW is a federally controlled substance ( CV ) because it contains lasmiditan that can be abused .
Keep REYVOW in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your REYVOW to anyone else , because it may harm them .
Selling or giving away REYVOW is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Before you take REYVOW , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems • have high blood pressure • have a low heart rate • are allergic to lasmiditan • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if REYVOW will harm your unborn baby .
• Pregnancy Registry : There is a pregnancy registry for pregnant women who take REYVOW .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby if you take REYVOW during pregnancy .
To learn more call 1 - 833 - 464 - 4724 or visit www . migrainepregnancyregistry . com .
You may also talk to your healthcare provider about how you can take part in this registry .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if REYVOW passes into your breastmilk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Your healthcare provider will decide if you can take REYVOW with your other medicines .
Especially , tell your healthcare provider if you take : • propranolol or other medicines that can lower your heart rate • any medicines that can increase your blood pressure • any medicines that make you sleepy • anti - depressant medicines called : • selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) • serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) • tricyclic anti - depressants ( TCAs ) • monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take REYVOW ?
• Take REYVOW exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose .
Do not change your dose without first talking to your healthcare provider .
• Take REYVOW tablets by mouth with or without food .
• Swallow REYVOW tablets whole .
Do not split , crush , or chew .
• Do not take more than one dose in a 24 - hour period .
• If you take REYVOW 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg , and your headache goes away but comes back , you should not take a second dose within 24 hours .
• Some people who take too many REYVOW tablets may have worse headaches ( medication overuse headache ) .
If your headaches get worse , your healthcare provider may decide to stop your treatment with REYVOW .
• You should write down when you have headaches and when you take REYVOW so you can talk to your healthcare provider about how REYVOW is working for you .
What should I avoid while taking REYVOW ?
• Do not drive or operate machinery for at least 8 hours after taking REYVOW .
• You should not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you drowsy while taking REYVOW .
What are the possible side effects of REYVOW ?
REYVOW can cause serious side effects including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about REYVOW ? ”
• serotonin syndrome .
Serotonin syndrome is a rare but serious problem that can happen in people using REYVOW , especially if REYVOW is used with anti - depressant medicines called SSRIs or SNRIs .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • mental changes such as seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , agitation , or coma • fast heartbeat • changes in blood pressure • high body temperature • tight muscles • trouble walking • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea • medication overuse headache .
Some people who take medicines like REYVOW for the acute treatment of migraine attacks for 10 or more days each month may have worse headaches ( medication overuse headache ) .
If your headaches get worse , your healthcare provider may decide to stop your treatment with REYVOW .
The most common side effects of REYVOW include : • dizziness • sleepiness • numbness • feeling tired • tingling Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of REYVOW .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
How should I store REYVOW ?
• Store REYVOW at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep REYVOW and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of REYVOW .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use REYVOW for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give REYVOW to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about REYVOW that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in REYVOW ?
Active ingredient : lasmiditan hemisuccinate Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate .
Color mixture ingredients : black ferric oxide , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , titanium dioxide .
100 mg tablets also contain red ferric oxide .
REYVOW is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA www . REYVOW . com Copyright © 2019 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
For more information go to www . REYVOW . com or call 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
REY - 0005 - MG - 20220715 PACKAGE LABEL - REYVOW 50 mg 8 ct carton NDC 0002 - 4312 - 08 8 tablets ( 2 cards of 4 tablets ) REYVOW ® ( lasmiditan ) CV tablets 50 mg Each tablet contains 50 mg of lasmiditan .
Rx only www . REYVOW . com 50 mg Dispense enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - REYVOW 100 mg 8 ct carton NDC 0002 - 4491 - 08 8 tablets ( 2 cards of 4 tablets ) REYVOW ® ( lasmiditan ) CV tablets 100 mg Each tablet contains 100 mg of lasmiditan .
Rx only www . REYVOW . com 100 mg Dispense enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
