FOR I . V . USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Plastic Vial Rx Only DESCRIPTION Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to intravenous solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL of solution contains 2 . 09 mg zinc chloride and 9 mg sodium chloride .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH is 2 . 0 ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 ) ; product may contain hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolarity is 0 . 354 mOsmoL / mL ( calc . )
.
Zinc Chloride , USP is chemically designated ZnCl2 , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The small amount of water vapor that can pass through the plastic container wall will not significantly alter the drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Zinc is an essential nutritional requirement and serves as a cofactor for more than 70 different enzymes including carbonic anhydrase , alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase , and both RNA and DNA polymerase .
Zinc Chloride Injection , USP facilitates wound healing , helps maintain normal growth rates , normal skin hydration , and the senses of taste and smell .
Zinc Chloride Injection , USP resides in muscle , bone , skin , kidney , liver , pancreas , retina , prostate and particularly in the red and white blood cells .
Zinc Chloride Injection , USP binds to plasma albumin , α2 - macroglobulin , and some plasma amino acids including histidine , cysteine , threonine , glycine , and asparagine .
Ingested zinc is excreted mainly in the stool ( approximately 90 % ) , and to a lesser extent in the urine and in perspiration .
Providing zinc helps prevent development of deficiency symptoms such as : Parakeratosis , hypogeusia , anorexia , dysosmia , geophagia , hypogonadism , growth retardation and hepatosplenomegaly .
The initial manifestations of hypozincemia in total parenteral nutrition are diarrhea , apathy and depression .
At plasma levels below 20 mcg zinc / 100 mL dermatitis followed by alopecia has been reported for total parenteral nutrition patients .
Normal zinc plasma levels are 100 ± 12 mcg / 100 mL .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration helps to maintain zinc serum levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores , and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Direct intramuscular or intravenous injection of Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL is contraindicated as the acidic pH of the solution ( 2 ) may cause considerable tissue irritation .
Severe kidney disease may make it necessary to reduce or omit chromium and zinc doses because these elements are primarily eliminated in the urine .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Do not use unless the solution is clear and the seal is intact .
Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL should only be used in conjunction with a pharmacy directed admixture program using aseptic technique in a laminar flow environment ; it should be used promptly and in a single operation without any repeated penetrations .
Solution contains no preservatives ; discard unused portion immediately after admixture procedure is completed .
Zinc Chloride Injection , USP should not be given undiluted by direct injection into a peripheral vein because of the likelihood of infusion phlebitis and the potential for increased excretory loss of zinc from a bolus injection .
Administration of zinc in the absence of copper may cause a decrease in serum copper levels .
Laboratory Tests Periodic determinations of serum copper as well as zinc are suggested as a guideline for subsequent zinc administration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL have not been performed , nor have studies been done to assess mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with zinc chloride .
It is also not known whether zinc chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Zinc chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None known .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE Single intravenous doses of 1 to 2 mg zinc / kg body weight have been given to adult leukemic patients without toxic manifestations .
However , acute toxicity was reported in an adult when 10 mg zinc was infused over a period of one hour on each of four consecutive days .
Profuse sweating , decreased level of consciousness , blurred vision , tachycardia ( 140 / min ) , and marked hypothermia ( 94 . 2 ° F ) on the fourth day were accompanied by a serum zinc concentration of 207 mcg / dl .
Symptoms abated within three hours .
Hyperamylasemia may be a sign of impending zinc overdosage ; patients receiving an inadvertent overdose ( 25 mg zinc / liter of TPN solution , equivalent to 50 to 70 mg zinc / day ) developed hyperamylasemia ( 557 to 1850 Klein units ; normal : 130 to 310 ) .
Death resulted from an overdosage in which 1683 mg zinc was delivered intravenously over the course of 60 hours to a 72 - year - old patient .
Symptoms of zinc toxicity included hypotension ( 80 / 40 mm Hg ) , pulmonary edema , diarrhea , vomiting , jaundice , and oliguria , with a serum zinc level of 4184 mcg / dl .
Calcium supplements may confer a protective effect against zinc toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Zinc Chloride Injection , USP contains 1 mg / mL and is administered intravenously only after dilution .
The additive should be diluted prior to administration in a volume of fluid not less than 100 mL .
For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested intravenous dosage is 2 . 5 to 4 mg zinc / day ( 2 . 5 to 4 mL / day ) .
An additional 2 mg zinc / day ( 2 mL / day ) is suggested for acute catabolic states .
For the stable adult with fluid loss from the small bowel , an additional 12 . 2 mg zinc / liter of small bowel fluid lost ( 12 . 2 mL / liter of small bowel fluid lost ) , or an additional 17 . 1 mg zinc / kg of stool or ileostomy output ( 17 . 1 mL / kg of stool or ileostomy output ) is recommended .
Frequent monitoring of zinc blood levels is suggested for patients receiving more than the usual maintenance dosage level of zinc .
For full term infants and children up to 5 years of age , 100 mcg zinc / kg / day ( 0 . 1 mL / kg / day ) is recommended .
For premature infants ( birth weight less than 1500 g ) up to 3 kg in body weight , 300 mcg zinc / kg / day ( 0 . 3 mL / kg / day ) is suggested .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Zinc Chloride Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL is supplied in 10 mL plastic vials .
NDC Number Strength Packaged NDC 51754 - 0102 - 1 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) 10 mL vial NDC 51754 - 0102 - 4 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) 25 vials per carton Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 6 8 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured and Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1245 Blowing Rock Blvd Lenoir , NC 28645 Revised 05 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 0102 - 1 Zinc Chloride Injection , USP 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Discard Unused Portion 10 mL Single - dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 ct Carton NDC 51754 - 0102 - 4 Rx Only Zinc Chloride Injection , USP 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) CAUTION : FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Discrd Unused Portion 25 x 10 mL Single - dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
