DESCRIPTION Labetalol HCl USP is an adrenergic receptor blocking agent that has both selective alpha 1 - and non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking actions in a single substance .
Labetalol HCl USP is a racemate , chemically designated as 5 - [ 1 - Hydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 3 - phenylpropyl ) amino ] ethyl ] salicylamide monohydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 19H24N2O3 • HCl M . W . 364 . 87 Labetalol HCl USP has two asymmetric centers and therefore exists as a molecular complex of two diastereoisomeric pairs .
Dilevalol , the R , R ' stereoisomer , makes up 25 % of racemic labetalol .
Labetalol HCl USP is a white or off - white crystalline powder , soluble in water .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 100 mg , 200 mg , or 300 mg of labetalol hydrochloride , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide and colorants ( 100 mg : D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake and FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake ; and 300 mg : D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake and FD & C blue # 1 aluminum lake ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Labetalol combines both selective , competitive alpha 1 - adrenergic blocking and nonselective , competitive beta - adrenergic blocking activity in a single substance .
In man , the ratios of alpha - to beta - blockade have been estimated to be approximately 1 : 3 and 1 : 7 following oral and intravenous administration , respectively .
Beta2 - agonist activity has been demonstrated in animals with minimal beta1 - agonist ( ISA ) activity detected .
In animals , at doses greater than those required for alpha - or beta - adrenergic blockade , a membrane - stabilizing effect has been demonstrated .
PharmacodynamicsThe capacity of labetalol to block alpha receptors in man has been demonstrated by attenuation of the pressor effect of phenylephrine and by a significant reduction of the pressor response caused by immersing the hand in ice - cold water ( “ cold - pressor test ” ) .
Labetalol ' s beta 1 - receptor blockade in man was demonstrated by a small decrease in the resting heart rate , attenuation of tachycardia produced by isoproterenol or exercise , and by attenuation of the reflex tachycardia to the hypotension produced by amyl nitrite .
Beta2 - receptor blockade was demonstrated by inhibition of the isoproterenol - induced fall in diastolic blood pressure .
Both the alpha - and beta - blocking actions of orally administered labetalol HCl contribute to a decrease in blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Labetalol consistently , in dose - related fashion , blunted increases in exercise - induced blood pressure and heart rate , and in their double product .
The pulmonary circulation during exercise was not affected by labetalol HCl dosing .
Single oral doses of labetalol HCl administered in patients with coronary artery disease had no significant effect on sinus rate , intraventricular conduction , or QRS duration .
The AV conduction time was modestly prolonged in 2 of 7 patients .
In another study , intravenous labetalol slightly prolonged AV nodal conduction time and atrial effective refractory period with only small changes in heart rate .
The effects on AV nodal refractoriness were inconsistent .
Labetalol produces dose - related falls in blood pressure without reflex tachycardia and without significant reduction in heart rate , presumably through a mixture of its alpha - blocking and beta - blocking effects .
Hemodynamic effects are variable with small nonsignificant changes in cardiac output seen in some studies but not others , and small decreases in total peripheral resistance .
Elevated plasma renins are reduced .
Doses of labetalol HCl that controlled hypertension did not affect renal function in mild to severe hypertensive patients with normal renal function .
Due to the alpha 1 - receptor blocking activity of labetalol , blood pressure is lowered more in the standing than in the supine position , and symptoms of postural hypotension ( 2 % ) , including rare instances of syncope , can occur .
Following oral administration , when postural hypotension has occurred , it has been transient and is uncommon when the recommended starting dose and titration increments are closely followed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is most likely to occur 2 to 4 hours after a dose , especially following the use of large initial doses or upon large changes in dose .
The peak effects of single oral doses of labetalol HCl occur within 2 to 4 hours .
The duration of effect depends upon dose , lasting at least 8 hours following single oral doses of 100 mg and more than 12 hours following single oral doses of 300 mg .
The maximum , steady - state blood pressure response upon oral , twice - a - day dosing occurs within 24 to 72 hours .
The antihypertensive effect of labetalol has a linear correlation with the logarithm of labetalol plasma concentration , and there is also a linear correlation between the reduction in exercise - induced tachycardia occurring at 2 hours after oral administration of labetalol HCl and the logarithm of the plasma concentration .
About 70 % of the maximum beta - blocking effect is present for 5 hours after the administration of a single oral dose of 400 mg , with suggestion that about 40 % remains at 8 hours .
The anti - anginal efficacy of labetalol has not been studied .
In 37 patients with hypertension and coronary artery disease , labetalol did not increase the incidence or severity of angina attacks .
Exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease .
Abrupt withdrawal of these agents in patients without coronary artery disease has resulted in transient symptoms , including tremulousness , sweating , palpitation , headache , and malaise .
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain these phenomena , among them increased sensitivity to catecholamines because of increased numbers of beta receptors .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in the treatment of angina and hypertension , there are also situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
For example , in patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
Beta - adrenergic blockade may worsen AV block by preventing the necessary facilitating effects of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta 2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
Pharmacokinetics and MetabolismLabetalol is completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with peak plasma levels occurring 1 to 2 hours after oral administration .
The relative bioavailability of labetalol tablets compared to an oral solution is 100 % .
The absolute bioavailability ( fraction of drug reaching systemic circulation ) of labetalol when compared to an intravenous infusion is 25 % ; this is due to extensive “ first - pass ” metabolism .
Despite “ first - pass ” metabolism there is a linear relationship between oral doses of 100 to 3000 mg and peak plasma levels .
The absolute bioavailability of labetalol is increased when administered with food .
The plasma half - life of labetalol following oral administration is about 6 to 8 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of labetalol during repetitive dosing are reached by about the third day of dosing .
In patients with decreased hepatic or renal function , the elimination half - life of labetalol is not altered ; however , the relative bioavailability in hepatically impaired patients is increased due to decreased “ first - pass ” metabolism .
The metabolism of labetalol is mainly through conjugation to glucuronide metabolites .
These metabolites are present in plasma and are excreted in the urine , and via the bile , into the feces .
Approximately 55 % to 60 % of a dose appears in the urine as conjugates or unchanged labetalol within the first 24 hours of dosing .
Labetalol has been shown to cross the placental barrier in humans .
Only negligible amounts of the drug crossed the blood - brain barrier in animal studies .
Labetalol is approximately 50 % protein bound .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the general circulation ( less than 1 % ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol HCl tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension .
Labetalol HCl tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide and loop diuretics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol HCl tablets are contraindicated in bronchial asthma , overt cardiac failure , greater than first degree heart block , cardiogenic shock , severe bradycardia , other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension , and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product ( see WARNINGS ) .
Beta - blockers , even those with apparent cardioselectivity , should not be used in patients with a history of obstructive airway disease , including asthma .
WARNINGS Hepatic InjurySevere hepatocellular injury , confirmed by rechallenge in at least one case , occurs rarely with therapy with labetalol .
The hep tic injury is usually reversible , but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported .
Injury has occurred after both short - and long - term treatment and may be slowly progressive despite minimal symptomatology .
Similar hepatic events have been reported with a related compound , dilevalol HCl , including two deaths .
Dilevalol HCl is one of the four isomers of labetalol HCl .
Thus , for patients taking labetalol , periodic determination of suitable hepatic laboratory tests would be appropriate .
Laboratory testing should also be done at the very first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , pruritus , dark urine , persistent anorexia , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , or unexplained " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If the patient has jaundice or laboratory evidence of liver injury , labetalol should be stopped and not restarted .
Cardiac FailureSympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure .
Beta blockade carries a potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
Although beta - blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , if necessary , labetalol can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are well - compensated .
Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol HCl .
Labetalol does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac FailureIn patients with latent cardiac insufficiency , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be fully digitalized and / or be given a diuretic , and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic , therapy with labetalol should be withdrawn ( gradually if possible ) .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt WithdrawalAngina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol discontinuation .
However , hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta - blocker therapy ; exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy .
When discontinuing chronically administered labetalol , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , labetalol administration should be reinstituted promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with labetalol abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Nonallergic bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) patients with bronchospastic disease should , in general , not receive beta - blockers .
Labetalol may be used with caution , however , in patients who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive agents .
It is prudent , if labetalol is used , to use the smallest effective dose , so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta - agonists is minimized .
PheochromocytomaLabetalol has been shown to be effective in lowering the blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma .
However , paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor ; therefore , use caution when administering labetalol to patients with pheochromocytoma .
Diabetes Mellitus and HypoglycemiaBeta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of acute hypoglycemia .
This is especially important with labile diabetics .
Beta - blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia ; it may therefore be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs .
Major SurgeryThe necessity or desirability of withdrawing beta - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial .
Protracted severe hypotension and difficulty in restarting or maintaining a heartbeat have been reported with beta - blockers .
The effect of labetalol ' s alpha - adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting .
A synergism between labetalol and halothane anesthesia has been shown ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralImpaired Hepatic FunctionLabetalol should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function since metabolism of the drug may be diminished .
Jaundice or Hepatic Dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information for PatientsAs with all drugs with beta - blocking activity , certain advice to patients being treated with labetalol is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
While no incident of the abrupt withdrawal phenomenon ( exacerbation of angina pectoris ) has been reported with labetalol , dosing with labetalol HCl tablets should not be interrupted or discontinued without a physician ' s advice .
Patients being treated with labetalol HCl tablets should consult a physician at any signs or symptoms of impending cardiac failure or hepatic dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Also , transient scalp tingling may occur , usually when treatment with labetalol HCl tablets is initiated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Laboratory TestsAs with any new drug given over prolonged periods , laboratory parameters should be observed over regular intervals .
In patients with concomitant illnesses , such as impaired renal function , appropriate tests should be done to monitor these conditions .
Drug InteractionsIn one survey , 2 . 3 % of patients taking labetalol in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor as compared to 0 . 7 % reported to occur with labetalol alone .
The contribution of each of the treatments to this adverse reaction is unknown but the possibility of a drug interaction cannot be excluded .
Drugs possessing beta - blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta - receptor agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm ; therefore , doses greater than the normal anti - asthmatic dose of beta - agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required .
Cimetidine has been shown to increase the bioavailability of labetalol .
Since this could be explained either by enhanced absorption or by an alteration of hepatic metabolism of labetalol , special care should be used in establishing the dose required for blood pressure control in such patients .
Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol .
During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol in association with halothane , high concentrations ( 3 % or above ) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure .
The anesthesiologist should be informed when a patient is receiving labetalol .
Labetalol blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effect .
If labetalol HCl is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris , additional antihypertensive effects may occur .
Care should be taken if labetalol is used concomitantly with calcium antagonists of the verapamil type .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow antrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Risk of Anaphylactic ReactionWhile taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsThe presence of labetalol metabolites in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary catecholamines , metanephrine , normetanephrine , and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods .
In screening patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma and being treated with labetalol , a specific method , such as a high performance liquid chromatographic assay with solid phase extraction ( e . g . , J Chromatogr 385 : 241 , 1987 ) should be employed in determining levels of catecholamines .
Labetalol has also been reported to produce a false - positive test for amphetamine when screening urine for the presence of drugs using the commercially available assay methods Toxi - Lab A ® ( thin - layer chromatographic assay ) and Emit - d . a . u . ® ( radioenzymatic assay ) .
When patients being treated with labetalol have a positive urine test for amphetamine using these techniques , confirmation should be made by using more specific methods , such as a gas chromatographic - mass spectrometer technique .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term oral dosing studies with labetalol for 18 months in mice and for 2 years in rats showed no evidence of carcinogenesis .
Studies with labetalol , using dominant lethal assays in rats and mice , and exposing microorganisms according to modified Ames tests , showed no evidence of mutagenesis .
Pregnancy Category CTeratogenic studies have been performed with labetalol in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to approximately 6 and 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
No reproducible evidence of fetal malformations was observed .
Increased fetal resorptions were seen in both species at doses approximating the MRHD .
A teratology study performed with labetalol in rabbits at intravenous doses up to 1 . 7 times the MRHD revealed no evidence of drug - related harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Labetalol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic EffectsHypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression have been reported in infants of mothers who were treated with labetalol for hypertension during pregnancy .
Oral administration of labetalol to rats during late gestation through weaning at doses of 2 to 4 times the MRHD caused a decrease in neonatal survival .
Labor and DeliveryLabetalol given to pregnant women with hypertension did not appear to affect the usual course of labor and delivery .
Nursing MothersSmall amounts of labetalol ( approximately 0 . 004 % of the maternal dose ) are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when labetalol HCl tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects are mild , transient and occur early in the course of treatment .
In controlled clinical trials of 3 to 4 months duration , discontinuation of labetalol HCl tablets due to one or more adverse effects was required in 7 % of all patients .
In these same trials , beta - blocker control agents led to discontinuation in 8 % to 10 % of patients , and a centrally acting alpha - agonist in 30 % of patients .
The incidence rates of adverse reactions listed in the following table were derived from multicenter controlled clinical trials , comparing labetalol , placebo , metoprolol and propranolol over treatment periods of 3 and 4 months .
Where the frequency of adverse effects for labetalol and placebo is similar , causal relationship is uncertain .
The rates are based on adverse reactions considered probably drug related by the investigator .
If all reports are considered , the rates are somewhat higher ( e . g . , dizziness 20 % , nausea 14 % , fatigue 11 % ) , but the overall conclusions are unchanged .
Labetalol ( N = 227 ) % Placebo ( N = 98 ) % Propranolol ( N = 84 ) % Metoprolol ( N = 49 ) % Body as a whole fatigue 5 0 12 12 asthenia 1 1 1 0 headache 2 1 1 2 Gastrointestinal nausea 6 1 1 2 vomiting less than 1 0 0 0 dyspepsia 3 1 1 0 abdominal pain 0 0 1 2 diarrhea less than 1 0 2 0 taste distortion 1 0 0 0 Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems dizziness 11 3 4 4 paresthesias less than 1 0 0 0 drowsiness less than 1 2 2 2 Autonomic Nervous System nasal stuffiness 3 0 0 0 ejaculation failure 2 0 0 0 impotence 1 0 1 3 increased sweating less than 1 0 0 0 Cardiovascular edema 1 0 0 0 postural hypotension 1 0 0 0 bradycardia 0 0 5 12 Respiratory dyspnea 2 0 1 2 Skin rash 1 0 0 0 Special Senses vision abnormality 1 0 0 0 vertigo 2 1 0 0 The adverse effects were reported spontaneously and are representative of the incidence of adverse effects that may be observed in a properly selected hypertensive patient population , i . e . a group excluding patients with bronchospastic disease , overt congestive heart failure , or other contraindications to beta - blocker therapy .
Clinical trials also included studies utilizing daily doses up to 2400 mg in more severely hypertensive patients .
Certain of the side effects increased with increasing dose as shown in the table below which depicts the entire U . S . therapeutic trials data base for adverse reactions that are clearly or possibly drug related .
Labetalol HCl Daily Dose ( mg ) 200 300 400 600 800 Number of Patients 522 181 606 608 503 Dizziness ( % ) 2 3 3 3 5 Fatigue 2 1 4 4 5 Nausea less than 1 0 1 2 4 Vomiting 0 0 less than 1 less than 1 less than 1 Dyspepsia 1 0 2 1 1 Paresthesias 2 0 2 2 1 Nasal Stuffiness 1 1 2 2 2 Ejaculation Failure 0 2 1 2 3 Impotence 1 1 1 1 2 Edema 1 0 1 1 1 Daily Dose ( mg ) 900 1200 1600 2400 Number of Patients 117 411 242 175 Dizziness ( % ) 1 9 13 16 Fatigue 3 7 6 10 Nausea 0 7 11 19 Vomiting 0 1 2 3 Dyspepsia 0 2 2 4 Paresthesias 1 2 5 5 Nasal Stuffiness 2 4 5 6 Ejaculation Failure 0 4 3 5 Impotence 4 3 4 3 Edema 0 1 2 2 In addition , a number of other less common adverse events have been reported : Body as a WholeFever .
CardiovascularHypotension , and rarely , syncope , bradycardia , heart block .
Central and Peripheral Nervous SystemsParesthesias , most frequently described as scalp tingling .
In most cases , it was mild , transient and usually occurred at the beginning of treatment .
Collagen DisordersSystemic lupus erythematosus ; positive antinuclear factor ( ANF ) .
EyesDry eyes .
Immunological SystemAntimitochondrial antibodies .
Liver and Biliary SystemHepatic necrosis ; hepatitis ; cholestatic jaundice , elevated liver function tests .
Musculoskeletal SystemMuscle cramps ; toxic myopathy .
Respiratory SystemBronchospasm .
Skin and AppendagesRashes of various types , such as generalized maculopapular ; lichenoid ; urticarial ; bullous lichen planus ; psoriaform ; facial erythema ; Peyronie ' s disease ; reversible alopecia .
Urinary SystemDifficulty in micturition , including acute urinary bladder retention .
HypersensitivityRare reports of hypersensitivity ( e . g . , rash , urticaria , pruritus , angioedema , dyspnea ) and anaphylactoid reactions .
Following approval for marketing in the United Kingdom , a monitored release survey involving approximately 6 , 800 patients was conducted for further safety and efficacy evaluation of this product .
Results of this survey indicate that the type , severity , and incidence of adverse effects were comparable to those cited above .
Potential Adverse EffectsIn addition , other adverse effects not listed above have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
Central Nervous SystemReversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
CardiovascularIntensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
AllergicFever combined with aching and sore throat ; laryngospasm ; respiratory distress .
HematologicAgranulocytosis ; thrombocytopenic or nonthrombocytopenic purpura .
GastrointestinalMesenteric artery thrombosis ; ischemic colitis .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with labetalol .
Clinical Laboratory TestsThere have been reversible increases of serum transaminases in 4 % of patients treated with labetalol and tested , and more rarely , reversible increases in blood urea .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with labetalol HCl tablets causes excessive hypotension that is posture sensitive , and sometimes , excessive bradycardia .
Patients should be placed supine and their legs raised if necessary to improve the blood supply to the brain .
If overdosage with labetalol follows oral ingestion , gastric lavage or pharmacologically induced emesis ( using syrup of ipecac ) may be useful for removal of the drug shortly after ingestion .
The following additional measures should be employed if necessary : Excessive bradycardia - administer atropine or epinephrine .
Cardiac failure - administer a digitalis glycoside and a diuretic .
Dopamine or dobutamine may also be useful .
Hypotension - administer vasopressors , e . g . , norepinephrine .
There is pharmacological evidence that norepinephrine may be the drug of choice .
Bronchospasm - administer epinephrine and / or an aerosolized beta2 - agonist .
Seizures - administer diazepam .
In severe beta - blocker overdose resulting in hypotension and / or bradycardia , glucagon has been shown to be effective when administered in large doses ( 5 to 10 mg rapidly over 30 seconds , followed by continuous infusion of 5 mg / hr that can be reduced as the patient improves ) .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the general circulation ( less than 1 % ) .
The oral LD 50 value of labetalol HCl in the mouse is approximately 600 mg / kg and in the rat is greater than 2 g / kg .
The intravenous LD50 in these species is 50 to 60 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
The recommended initial dose is 100 mg twice daily whether used alone or added to a diuretic regimen .
After 2 or 3 days , using standing blood pressure as an indicator , dosage may be titrated in increments of 100 mg b . i . d . every 2 or 3 days .
The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol HCl is between 200 and 400 mg twice daily .
Since the full antihypertensive effect of labetalol is usually seen within the first 1 to 3 hours of the initial dose or dose increment , the assurance of a lack of an exaggerated hypotensive response can be clinically established in the office setting .
The antihypertensive effects of continued dosing can be measured at subsequent visits , approximately 12 hours after a dose , to determine whether further titration is necessary .
Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1200 mg to 2400 mg per day , with or without thiazide diuretics .
Should side effects ( principally nausea or dizziness ) occur with these doses administered b . i . d . , the same total daily dose administered t . i . d . may improve tolerability and facilitate further titration .
Titration increments should not exceed 200 mg b . i . d .
When a diuretic is added , an additive antihypertensive effect can be expected .
In some cases this may necessitate a labetalol HCl dosage adjustment .
As with most antihypertensive drugs , optimal dosages of labetalol HCl tablets are usually lower in patients also receiving a diuretic .
When transferring patients from other antihypertensive drugs , labetalol HCl tablets should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively decreased .
HOW SUPPLIED Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 100 mg are available as yellow , round , film - coated tablets , debossed with a bisect , “ 4364 ” and on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other containing 100 mg of labetalol hydrochloride USP , packaged in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 4921 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 4921 - 2 Bottles of 100 Bottles of 120 NDC 54868 - 4921 - 1 NDC 54868 - 4921 - 4 Bottles of 180 NDC 54868 - 4921 - 3 Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 200 mg are available as white , round , film - coated tablets , debossed with a bisect , “ 4365 ” and on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other containing 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride USP , packaged in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 4844 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 4844 - 1 Bottle sof 90 NDC 54868 - 4844 - 2 Bottles of 120 NDC 54868 - 4844 - 3 Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 300 mg are available as green , round , film - coated , unscored tablets , debossed with ” 4366 ” and on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other containing 300 mg of labetalol hydrochloride USP , packaged in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 4903 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 4903 - 1 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 4903 - 2 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rev . A 7 / 2008 Manufactured In India By : EMCURE PHARMACEUTICALS LTD .
Hinjwadi , Pune , India Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . D 12 / 2010 Relabeling and Rapackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE Tablets USP 100 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE Tablets USP 200 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE Tablets USP 300 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
