DESCRIPTION TNKase ® ( Tenecteplase ) is a tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) produced by recombinant DNA technology using an established mammalian cell line ( Chinese Hamster Ovary cells ) .
Tenecteplase is a 527 amino acid glycoprotein developed by introducing the following modifications to the complementary DNA ( cDNA ) for natural human tPA : a substitution of threonine 103 with asparagine , and a substitution of asparagine 117 with glutamine , both within the kringle 1 domain , and a tetra - alanine substitution at amino acids 296 – 299 in the protease domain .
TNKase is a sterile , white to off - white , lyophilized powder for single intravenous ( IV ) bolus administration after reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection ( SWFI ) , USP .
Each vial of TNKase nominally contains 52 . 5 mg Tenecteplase , 0 . 55 g L - arginine , 0 . 17 g phosphoric acid , and 4 . 3 mg polysorbate 20 , which includes a 5 % overfill .
Each vial will deliver 50 mg of Tenecteplase .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY General Tenecteplase is a modified form of human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) that binds to fibrin and converts plasminogen to plasmin .
In the presence of fibrin , in vitro studies demonstrate that Tenecteplase conversion of plasminogen to plasmin is increased relative to its conversion in the absence of fibrin .
This fibrin specificity decreases systemic activation of plasminogen and the resulting degradation of circulating fibrinogen as compared to a molecule lacking this property .
Following administration of 30 , 40 , or 50 mg of TNKase , there are decreases in circulating fibrinogen ( 4 % – 15 % ) and plasminogen ( 11 % – 24 % ) .
The clinical significance of fibrin - specificity on safety ( e . g . , bleeding ) or efficacy has not been established .
Biological potency is determined by an in vitro clot lysis assay and is expressed in Tenecteplase - specific units .
The specific activity of Tenecteplase has been defined as 200 units / mg .
Pharmacokinetics In patients with acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) , TNKase administered as a single bolus exhibits a biphasic disposition from the plasma .
Tenecteplase was cleared from the plasma with an initial half - life of 20 to 24 minutes .
The terminal phase half - life of Tenecteplase was 90 to 130 minutes .
In 99 of 104 patients treated with Tenecteplase , mean plasma clearance ranged from 99 to 119 mL / min .
The initial volume of distribution is weight related and approximates plasma volume .
Liver metabolism is the major clearance mechanism for Tenecteplase .
CLINICAL STUDIES ASSENT - 2 was an international , randomized , double - blind trial that compared 30 - day mortality rates in 16 , 949 patients assigned to receive an IV bolus dose of TNKase or an accelerated infusion of Activase ® ( Alteplase ) . 1 Eligibility criteria included onset of chest pain within 6 hours of randomization and ST - segment elevation or left bundle branch block on electrocardiogram ( ECG ) .
Patients were to be excluded from the trial if they received GP IIb / IIIa inhibitors within the previous 12 hours .
TNKase was dosed using actual or estimated weight in a weight - tiered fashion as described in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
All patients were to receive 150 – 325 mg of aspirin administered as soon as possible , followed by 150 – 325 mg daily .
Intravenous heparin was to be administered as soon as possible : for patients weighing ≤ 67 kg , heparin was administered as a 4000 unit IV bolus followed by infusion at 800 U / hr ; for patients weighing > 67 kg , heparin was administered as a 5000 unit IV bolus followed by infusion at 1000 U / hr .
Heparin was continued for 48 to 72 hours with infusion adjusted to maintain aPTT at 50 – 75 seconds .
The use of GP IIb / IIIa inhibitors was discouraged for the first 24 hours following randomization .
The results of the primary endpoint ( 30 - day mortality rates with non - parametric adjustment for the covariates of age , Killip class , heart rate , systolic blood pressure and infarct location ) along with selected other 30 - day endpoints are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 ASSENT - 2 Mortality , Stroke , and Combined Outcome of Death or Stroke Measured at Thirty Days30 - Day Events TNKase ( n = 8461 ) Accelerated Activase ( n = 8488 ) Relative Risk TNKase / Activase ( 95 % CI ) Mortality 6 . 2 % 6 . 2 % 1 . 00 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 12 ) Intracranial Hemorrhage ( ICH ) 0 . 9 % 0 . 9 % 0 . 99 ( 0 . 73 , 1 . 35 ) Any Stroke 1 . 8 % 1 . 7 % 1 . 07 ( 0 . 86 , 1 . 35 ) Death or Nonfatal Stroke 7 . 1 % 7 . 0 % 1 . 01 ( 0 . 91 , 1 . 13 ) Rates of mortality and the combined endpoint of death or stroke among pre - specified subgroups , including age , gender , time to treatment , infarct location , and history of previous myocardial infarction , demonstrate consistent relative risks across these subgroups .
There was insufficient enrollment of non - Caucasian patients to draw any conclusions regarding relative efficacy in racial subsets .
Rates of in - hospital procedures , including percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( PTCA ) , stent placement , intra - aortic balloon pump ( IABP ) use , and coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery , were similar between the TNKase and Activase ® ( Alteplase ) groups .
TIMI 10 B was an open - label , controlled , randomized , dose - ranging , angiography study which utilized a blinded core laboratory for review of coronary arteriograms . 2 Patients ( n = 837 ) presenting within 12 hours of symptom onset were treated with fixed doses of 30 , 40 , or 50 mg of TNKase or the accelerated infusion of Activase and underwent coronary arteriography at 90 minutes .
The results showed that the 40 mg and 50 mg doses were similar to accelerated infusion of Activase in restoring patency .
TIMI Grade 3 flow and TIMI Grade 2 / 3 flow at 90 minutes are shown in Table 2 .
The exact relationship between coronary artery patency and clinical activity has not been established .
Table 2 TIMI 10 B Patency Rates TIMI Grade Flow at 90 Minutes Activase ≤ 100 mg ( n = 311 ) TNKase 30 mg ( n = 302 ) TNKase 40 mg ( n = 148 ) TNKase 50 mg ( n = 76 ) TIMI Grade 3 Flow 63 % 54 % 63 % 66 % TIMI Grade 2 / 3 Flow 82 % 77 % 79 % 88 % 95 % CI ( TIMI 2 / 3 Flow ) ( 77 % , 86 % ) ( 72 % , 81 % ) ( 72 % , 85 % ) ( 79 % , 94 % ) The angiographic results from TIMI 10 B and the safety data from ASSENT - 1 , an additional uncontrolled safety study of 3 , 235 TNKase - treated patients , provided the framework to develop a weight - tiered TNKase dose regimen . 3 Exploratory analyses suggested that a weight - adjusted dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg to 0 . 6 mg / kg of TNKase resulted in a better patency to bleeding relationship than fixed doses of TNKase across a broad range of patient weights .
The Assessment of the Safety and Efficacy of a New Treatment Strategy with Percutaneous Coronary Intervention ( ASSENT 4 PCI ) was a Phase IIIb / IV study designed to assess the safety and effectiveness of a strategy of administering full dose TNKase with a single bolus of 4000 U of unfractionated heparin in patients with ST segment elevation AMI , in whom primary percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) was planned , but in whom a delay of 1 – 3 hours was anticipated before PCI .
The trial was prematurely terminated with 1667 randomized patients ( 75 of whom were treated in the United States ) due to a numerically higher mortality in the patients receiving TNKase prior to primary PCI versus PCI without TNKase ( median time from randomization to balloon of 115 minutes ) .
The incidence of the 90 ‑ day primary endpoint , a composite of death or cardiogenic shock or congestive heart failure ( CHF ) within 90 days , was 18 . 6 % in patients treated with TNKase plus PCI versus 13 . 4 % in those treated with PCI alone ( p = 0 . 0055 ; OR 1 . 39 ( 95 % C . I . 1 . 11 – 1 . 74 ) ) .
There were trends toward worse outcomes in the individual components of the primary endpoint between TNKase plus PCI versus PCI alone ( mortality 6 . 7 % vs . 5 . 0 % , respectively ; cardiogenic shock 6 . 1 % vs . 4 . 8 % , respectively ; and CHF 12 . 1 % vs . 9 . 4 % , respectively ) .
In addition , there were trends towards worse outcomes in recurrent MI ( 6 . 1 % vs . 3 . 5 % , respectively ; p = 0 . 03 ) and repeat target vessel revascularization ( 6 . 6 % vs . 3 . 6 % , respectively ; p = 0 . 005 ) in patients receiving TNKase plus PCI versus PCI alone .
There was no difference in in ‑ hospital major bleeding between the two groups ( 5 . 6 % vs . 4 . 4 % for TNKase plus PCI vs . PCI alone , respectively ) .
For patients treated with TNKase plus PCI , in ‑ hospital rates of intracranial hemorrhage and total stroke were similar to those observed in previous trials ( 0 . 97 % and 1 . 8 % , respectively ) ; however , none of the patients treated with PCI alone experienced a stroke ( ischemic , hemorrhagic or other ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TNKase ® ( Tenecteplase ) is indicated for use in the reduction of mortality associated with acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after the onset of AMI symptoms ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TNKase therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction is contraindicated in the following situations because of an increased risk of bleeding ( see WARNINGS ) : • Active internal bleeding • History of cerebrovascular accident • Intracranial or intraspinal surgery or trauma within 2 months • Intracranial neoplasm , arteriovenous malformation , or aneurysm • Known bleeding diathesis • Severe uncontrolled hypertension WARNINGS Bleeding The most common complication encountered during TNKase therapy is bleeding .
The type of bleeding associated with thrombolytic therapy can be divided into two broad categories : • Internal bleeding , involving intracranial and retroperitoneal sites , or the gastrointestinal , genitourinary , or respiratory tracts .
• Superficial or surface bleeding , observed mainly at vascular puncture and access sites ( e . g . , venous cutdowns , arterial punctures ) or sites of recent surgical intervention .
Should serious bleeding ( not controlled by local pressure ) occur , any concomitant heparin or antiplatelet agents should be discontinued immediately and treated appropriately .
In clinical studies of TNKase , patients were treated with both aspirin and heparin .
Heparin may contribute to the bleeding risks associated with TNKase .
The safety of the use of TNKase with other antiplatelet agents has not been adequately studied ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Intramuscular injections and nonessential handling of the patient should be avoided for the first few hours following treatment with TNKase .
Venipunctures should be performed and monitored carefully .
Should an arterial puncture be necessary during the first few hours following TNKase therapy , it is preferable to use an upper extremity vessel that is accessible to manual compression .
Pressure should be applied for at least 30 minutes , a pressure dressing applied , and the puncture site checked frequently for evidence of bleeding .
Each patient being considered for therapy with TNKase should be carefully evaluated and anticipated benefits weighed against potential risks associated with therapy .
In the following conditions , the risk of TNKase therapy may be increased and should be weighed against the anticipated benefits : • Recent major surgery , e . g . , coronary artery bypass graft , obstetrical delivery , organ biopsy , previous puncture of noncompressible vessels • Cerebrovascular disease • Recent gastrointestinal or genitourinary bleeding • Recent trauma • Hypertension : systolic BP ≥ 180 mm Hg and / or diastolic BP ≥ 110 mm Hg • Acute pericarditis • Subacute bacterial endocarditis • Hemostatic defects , including those secondary to severe hepatic or renal disease • Severe hepatic dysfunction • Pregnancy • Diabetic hemorrhagic retinopathy or other hemorrhagic ophthalmic conditions • Septic thrombophlebitis or occluded AV cannula at seriously infected site • Advanced age ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) • Patients currently receiving oral anticoagulants , e . g . , warfarin sodium • Recent administration of GP IIb / IIIa inhibitors • Any other condition in which bleeding constitutes a significant hazard or would be particularly difficult to manage because of its location Thromboembolism The use of thrombolytics can increase the risk of thrombo - embolic events in patients with high likelihood of left heart thrombus , such as patients with mitral stenosis or atrial fibrillation .
Cholesterol Embolization Cholesterol embolism has been reported rarely in patients treated with all types of thrombolytic agents ; the true incidence is unknown .
This serious condition , which can be lethal , is also associated with invasive vascular procedures ( e . g . , cardiac catheterization , angiography , vascular surgery ) and / or anticoagulant therapy .
Clinical features of cholesterol embolism may include livedo reticularis , " purple toe " syndrome , acute renal failure , gangrenous digits , hypertension , pancreatitis , myocardial infarction , cerebral infarction , spinal cord infarction , retinal artery occlusion , bowel infarction , and rhabdomyolysis .
Arrhythmias Coronary thrombolysis may result in arrhythmias associated with reperfusion .
These arrhythmias ( such as sinusbradycardia , accelerated idioventricular rhythm , ventricular premature depolarizations , ventricular tachycardia ) are not different from those often seen in the ordinary course of acute myocardial infarction and may be managed with standard anti ‑ arrhythmic measures .
It is recommended that anti ‑ arrhythmic therapy for bradycardia and / or ventricular irritability be available when TNKase is administered .
Use with Percutaneous Coronary Intervention ( PCI ) In patients with large ST segment elevation myocardial infarction , physicians should choose either thrombolysis or PCI as the primary treatment strategy for reperfusion .
Rescue PCI or subsequent elective PCI may be performed after administration of thrombolytic therapies if medically appropriate ; however , the optimal use of adjunctive antithrombotic and antiplatelet therapies in this setting is unknown .
PRECAUTIONS General Standard management of myocardial infarction should be implemented concomitantly with TNKase treatment .
Arterial and venous punctures should be minimized .
Noncompressible arterial puncture must be avoided and internal jugular and subclavian venous punctures should be avoided to minimize bleeding from the noncompressible sites .
In the event of serious bleeding , heparin and antiplatelet agents should be discontinued immediately .
Heparin effects can be reversed by protamine .
Readministration Readministration of plasminogen activators , including TNKase , to patients who have received prior plasminogen activator therapy has not been systematically studied .
Three of 487 patients tested for antibody formation to TNKase had a positive antibody titer at 30 days .
The data reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to TNKase in a radioimmunoprecipitation assay , and are highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to TNKase with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
Although sustained antibody formation in patients receiving one dose of TNKase has not been documented , readministration should be undertaken with caution .
Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity , including urticarial / anaphylactic reactions , have been reported after administration of TNKase ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , angioedema , laryngeal edema , rash , and urticaria ) .
Monitor patients treated with TNKase during and for several hours after infusion .
If symptoms of hypersensitivity occur , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Drug Interactions Formal interaction studies of TNKase with other drugs have not been performed .
Patients studied in clinical trials of TNKase were routinely treated with heparin and aspirin .
Anticoagulants ( such as heparin and vitamin K antagonists ) and drugs that alter platelet function ( such as acetylsalicylic acid , dipyridamole , and GP IIb / IIIa inhibitors ) may increase the risk of bleeding if administered prior to , during , or after TNKase therapy .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions During TNKase therapy , results of coagulation tests and / or measures of fibrinolytic activity may be unreliable unless specific precautions are taken to prevent in vitro artifacts .
Tenecteplase is an enzyme that , when present in blood in pharmacologic concentrations , remains active under in vitro conditions .
This can lead to degradation of fibrinogen in blood samples removed for analysis .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenicity , or the effect on fertility .
Pregnancy TNKase has been shown to elicit maternal and embryo toxicity in rabbits given multiple IV administrations .
In rabbits administered 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 , and 5 . 0 mg / kg / day during organogenesis , vaginal hemorrhage resulted in maternal deaths .
Subsequent embryonic deaths were secondary to maternal hemorrhage and no fetal anomalies were observed .
TNKase does not elicit maternal and embryo toxicity in rabbits following a single IV administration .
Thus , in developmental toxicity studies conducted in rabbits , the no observable effect level ( NOEL ) of a single IV administration of TNKase on maternal or developmental toxicity ( 5 mg / kg ) was approximately 7 times human exposure ( based on AUC ) at the dose for AMI .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
TNKase should be given to pregnant women only if the potential benefits justify the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if TNKase is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when TNKase is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TNKase in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the patients in ASSENT - 2 who received TNKase , 4 , 958 ( 59 % ) were under the age of 65 ; 2 , 256 ( 27 % ) were between the ages of 65 and 74 ; and 1 , 244 ( 15 % ) were 75 and over .
The 30 - day mortality rates by age were 2 . 5 % in patients under the age of 65 , 8 . 5 % in patients between the ages of 65 and 74 , and 16 . 2 % in patients age 75 and over .
The ICH rates were 0 . 4 % in patients under the age of 65 , 1 . 6 % in patients between the ages of 65 and 74 , and 1 . 7 % in patients age 75 and over .
The rates of any stroke were 1 . 0 % in patients under the age of 65 , 2 . 9 % in patients between the ages of 65 and 74 , and 3 . 0 % in patients age 75 and over .
Major bleeding rates , defined as bleeding requiring blood transfusion or leading to hemodynamic compromise , were 3 . 1 % in patients under the age of 65 , 6 . 4 % in patients between the ages of 65 and 74 , and 7 . 7 % in patients age 75 and over .
In elderly patients , the benefits of TNKase on mortality should be carefully weighed against the risk of increased adverse events , including bleeding .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in Section PRECAUTIONS of the label : • Hypersensitivity Bleeding The most frequent adverse reaction associated with TNKase is bleeding ( see WARNINGS ) .
Should serious bleeding occur , concomitant heparin and antiplatelet therapy should be discontinued .
Death or permanent disability can occur in patients who experience stroke or serious bleeding episodes .
For TNKase - treated patients in ASSENT - 2 , the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage was 0 . 9 % and any stroke was 1 . 8 % .
The incidence of all strokes , including intracranial bleeding , increases with increasing age ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
In the ASSENT - 2 study , the following bleeding events were reported ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 ASSENT - 2 Non - ICH Bleeding Events TNKase ( n = 8461 ) Accelerated Activase ( n = 8488 ) Relative Risk for TNKase / Activase ( 95 % CI ) Major bleeding [ 1 ] 4 . 7 % 5 . 9 % 0 . 78 ( 0 . 69 , 0 . 89 ) Minor bleeding 21 . 8 % 23 . 0 % 0 . 94 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 00 ) Units of transfused blood Any 4 . 3 % 5 . 5 % 0 . 77 ( 0 . 67 , 0 . 89 ) 1 – 2 2 . 6 % 3 . 2 % > 2 1 . 7 % 2 . 2 % [ 1 ] Major bleeding is defined as bleeding requiring blood transfusion or leading to hemodynamic compromise .
Non - intracranial major bleeding and the need for blood transfusions were lower in patients treated with TNKase .
Types of major bleeding reported in 1 % or more of the patients were hematoma ( 1 . 7 % ) and gastrointestinal tract ( 1 % ) .
Types of major bleeding reported in less than 1 % of the patients were urinary tract , puncture site ( including cardiac catheterization site ) , retroperitoneal , respiratory tract , and unspecified .
Types of minor bleeding reported in 1 % or more of the patients were hematoma ( 12 . 3 % ) , urinary tract ( 3 . 7 % ) , puncture site ( including cardiac catheterization site ) ( 3 . 6 % ) , pharyngeal ( 3 . 1 % ) , gastrointestinal tract ( 1 . 9 % ) , epistaxis ( 1 . 5 % ) , and unspecified ( 1 . 3 % ) .
Other Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported among patients receiving TNKase in clinical trials .
These reactions are frequent sequelae of the underlying disease , and the effect of TNKase on the incidence of these events is unknown .
These events include cardiogenic shock , arrhythmias , atrioventricular block , pulmonary edema , heart failure , cardiac arrest , recurrent myocardial ischemia , myocardial reinfarction , myocardial rupture , cardiac tamponade , pericarditis , pericardial effusion , mitral regurgitation , thrombosis , embolism , and electromechanical dissociation .
These events can be life - threatening and may lead to death .
Nausea and / or vomiting , hypotension , and fever have also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage TNKase ® ( Tenecteplase ) is for intravenous administration only .
The recommended total dose should not exceed 50 mg and is based upon patient weight .
A single bolus dose should be administered over 5 seconds based on patient weight .
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after the onset of AMI symptoms ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Dose Information TablePatient Weight ( kg ) TNKase ( mg ) Volume TNKase [ 1 ] to be administered ( mL ) < 60 30 6 ≥ 60 to < 70 35 7 ≥ 70 to < 80 40 8 ≥ 80 to < 90 45 9 ≥ 90 50 10 [ 1 ] From one vial of TNKase reconstituted with 10 mL SWFI .
The safety and efficacy of TNKase have only been investigated with concomitant administration of heparin and aspirin as described in CLINICAL STUDIES .
THE [ MULTIMEDIA ] ® 10 mL SYRINGE WITH TWINPAK ™ DUAL CANNULA DEVICE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Reconstitution NOTE : Read all instructions completely before beginning reconstitution and administration .
• Remove the shield assembly from the supplied B - D ® 10 mL syringe with TwinPak ™ Dual Cannula Device ( see figure ) and aseptically withdraw 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection ( SWFI ) , USP , from the supplied diluent vial using the red hub cannula syringe filling device .
Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP .
Note : Do not discard the shield assembly .
• Inject the entire contents of the syringe ( 10 mL ) into the TNKase vial directing the diluent stream into the powder .
Slight foaming upon reconstitution is not unusual ; any large bubbles will dissipate if the product is allowed to stand undisturbed for several minutes .
• Gently swirl until contents are completely dissolved .
DO NOT SHAKE .
The reconstituted preparation results in a colorless to pale yellow transparent solution containing TNKase at 5 mg / mL at a pH of approximately 7 . 3 .
The osmolality of this solution is approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
• Determine the appropriate dose of TNKase ( see Dose Information Table ) and withdraw this volume ( in milliliters ) from the reconstituted vial with the syringe .
Any unused solution should be discarded .
• Once the appropriate dose of TNKase is drawn into the syringe , stand the shield vertically on a flat surface ( with green side down ) and passively recap the red hub cannula .
• Remove the entire shield assembly , including the red hub cannula , by twisting counterclockwise .
Note : The shield assembly also contains the clear - ended blunt plastic cannula ; retain for split septum IV access .
Administration • 1 .
The product should be visually inspected prior to administration for particulate matter and discoloration .
TNKase may be administered as reconstituted at 5 mg / mL .
• 2 .
Precipitation may occur when TNKase is administered in an IV line containing dextrose .
Dextrose - containing lines should be flushed with a saline - containing solution prior to and following single bolus administration of TNKase .
• 3 .
Reconstituted TNKase should be administered as a single IV bolus over 5 seconds .
• 4 .
Because TNKase contains no antibacterial preservatives , it should be reconstituted immediately before use .
If the reconstituted TNKase is not used immediately , refrigerate the TNKase vial at 2 – 8 ° C ( 36 – 46 ° F ) and use within 8 hours .
• 5 .
Although the supplied syringe is compatible with a conventional needle , this syringe is designed to be used with needleless IV systems .
From the information below , follow the instructions applicable to the IV system in use .
Split septum IV system : • Remove the green cap .
• Attach the clear - ended blunt plastic cannula to the syringe .
• Remove the shield and use the blunt plastic cannula to access the split septum injection port .
• Because the blunt plastic cannula has two side ports , air or fluid expelled through the cannula will exit in two sideways directions ; direct away from face or mucous membranes .
Luer - Lok ® system : Connect syringe directly to IV port .
Conventional needle ( not supplied in this kit ) : Attach a large bore needle , e . g . , 18 gauge , to the syringe ' s universal Luer ‑ Lok ® .
• 6 .
Dispose of the syringe , cannula and shield per established procedures .
HOW SUPPLIED TNKase ® ( Tenecteplase ) is supplied as a sterile , lyophilized powder in a 50 mg vial under partial vacuum .
Each 50 mg vial of TNKase is packaged with one 10 mL vial of Sterile Water for Injection , USP for reconstitution , and the B - D ® 10 mL syringe with TwinPak ™ Dual Cannula Device .
The following packaging configurations are available : • With three alcohol prep pads ( NDC 50242 - 120 - 01 ) .
• Without alcohol prep pads ( NDC 50242 - 120 - 47 ) .
Stability and Storage Store lyophilized TNKase at controlled room temperature not to exceed 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 – 8 ° C ( 36 – 46 ° F ) .
Do not use beyond the expiration date stamped on the vial .
REFERENCES • ASSENT - 2 Investigators .
Single - bolus tenecteplase compared with front - loaded alteplase in acute myocardial infarction : the ASSENT - 2 double - blind randomised trial .
Lancet1999 ; 354 : 716 - 22 .
• Cannon CP , Gibson CM , McCabe CH , Adgey AAJ , Schweiger MJ , Sequeira RF , et al .
TNK - tissue plasminogen activator compared with front - loaded alteplase in acute myocardial infarction .
Results of the TIMI 10 B trial .
Circulation1998 ; 98 : 2805 – 14 .
• Van de Werf F , Cannon CP , Luyten A , Houbracken K , McCabe CH , Berioli S , et al .
Safety assessment of a single bolus administration of TNK tissue - plasminogen activator in acute myocardial infarction : the ASSENT - 1 trial .
Am Heart J1999 ; 137 : 786 – 91 .
TNKase ® [ Tenecteplase ] Manufactured by : Genentech , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 4851700 Initial US Approval June 2000 Revision Date 08 / 2018 TNKase is a registered Trademark of Genentech , Inc . © 2018 Genentech , Inc .
Representative sample of labeling ( see the HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) : PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 50242 - 120 - 47 Tenecteplase TNKase ® 50 mg For use in myocardial infarction Kit Contents : Each kit contains one 50 mg vial of TNKase , one 10 mL vial of preservative - free Sterile Water for Injection , USP , one BD ® 10 mL syringe with TwinPak ™ Dual Cannula Device , and package insert containing full prescribing information .
Vial Contents : The preservative - free single - use vial of TNKase contains 52 . 5 mg Tenecteplase , 0 . 55 g L - arginine , 0 . 17 g phosphoric acid , and 4 . 3 mg polysorbate 20 , under partial vacuum .
No U . S . standard of potency .
Rx only US License No . : 1048 Genentech 10200128 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
