This is a hand rub manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Rub Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand rub is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Rub Use Health care personnel hand rub to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP This is a hand rub manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Rub Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry . The hand rub is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 0 . 682 L ( 682 mL ) NDC : 77374 - 111 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
