Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) 11 / 2021 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING and SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING and SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is an estrogen / progestin COC , indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Oral Contraception Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Do not skip or delay tablet intake .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Start Tri - Lo - Mili ( Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets ) Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is dispensed in a blister pack [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take Tri - Lo - Mili ( Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets ) Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • • Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) active tablets are white to off white ( Day 1 to Day 7 ) , pale blue to bluish white ( Day 8 to Day 14 ) and blue to light blue ( Day 15 to Day 21 ) .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili inactive tablets are green ( Day 22 to Day 28 ) .
Day 1 Start : • • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses .
• • Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• • Take one green inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last inactive tablet ) Sunday Start : • • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) .
• • Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• • Take one green inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet ) and additional non - hormonal contraceptive is not needed .
Switching to Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) Start Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) : • • Transdermal patch • • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • • Vaginal ring • • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • • Injection • • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • • Intrauterine contraceptive • • On the day of removal • • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ’ s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack .
• • Implant • • On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
Starting Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is started immediately .
• • If Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) .
Second - trimester • • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) , following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start , as desired .
If using Sunday start , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . ]
Starting Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) after Childbirth • • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is not recommended for use in lactating women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
Blister Pack : 1 .
Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
2 .
The 28 - pill pack has 21 white to off white , pale blue to bluish white , and blue to light blue “ active ” pills ( with hormones ) to take for 3 weeks .
This is followed by 1 week of green “ reminder ” pills ( without hormones ) .
3 .
Also find : 1 ) where on the pack to start taking pills , 2 ) in what order to take the pills , and 3 ) the week numbers as shown in the picture below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Be sure you have ready at all times : Another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) to use as a back - up method in case you miss pills .
An extra , full pill pack .
You have a choice of which day to start taking your first pack of pills .
Tri - Lo - Mili is available in a blister pack which is preset for a Sunday Start .
Day 1 Start stickers are also provided .
Decide with your healthcare professional which is the best day for you .
Pick a time of day that will be easy to remember .
Sunday Start : Take the first white to off white “ active ” pill of the first pack on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the pack that same day .
Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first pack until the next Sunday ( 7 days ) .
Day 1 Start : Take the first white to off white " active " pill of the first pack during the first 24 hours of your period .
• 1 .
Pick the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period ( this is the day you start bleeding or spotting , even if it is almost midnight when the bleeding begins ) .
• 2 .
Place this day label strip in the cycle tablet over the area that has the days of the week ( starting with Sunday ) imprinted in the plastic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : If the first day of your period is a Sunday , you can skip steps # 1 and # 2 .
You will not need to use a back - up method of birth control , since you are starting the pill at the beginning of your period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) • • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
• • If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• • If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) is available in a blister pack .
Each blister pack contains 28 tablets in the following order : • • 7 white to off white , round , biconvex , coated tablets , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 15 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 pale blue to bluish white , round , biconvex , coated tablets , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 16 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 blue to light blue , round , biconvex , coated tablets , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 17 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 green , round , mottled , biconvex , uncoated tablets , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 24 ” on other side of the tablet contains inert ingredients Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) consists of 21 round , biconvex , coated tablets and 7 round , mottled , biconvex , uncoated tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • • 7 white to off white tablets each containing 0 . 180 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 pale blue to bluish white tablets each containing 0 . 215 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 blue to light blue tablets each containing 0 . 250 mg norgestimate and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol • • 7 green tablets ( inert ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • oSmoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • oHave uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • oHave diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • oHave headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • ▪ Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop Tri - Lo - Mili if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Liver disease : Discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Tri - Lo - Mili if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • • Stop Tri - Lo - Mili if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thrombotic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• • Stop Tri - Lo - Mili if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• • If feasible , stop Tri - Lo - Mili at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during and following prolonged immobilization .
• • Start Tri - Lo - Mili no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• • The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
• • Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• • Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Tri - Lo - Mili in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Tri - Lo - Mili is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Tri - Lo - Mili can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure Tri - Lo - Mili is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Tri - Lo - Mili if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who take Tri - Lo - Mili .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking Tri - Lo - Mili develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Tri - Lo - Mili in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In the clinical trial of Tri - Lo - Mili , the frequency and duration of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting was assessed in 1 , 673 women ( 11 , 015 evaluable cycles ) .
A total of 3 ( 0 . 2 % ) women discontinued Tri - Lo - Mili , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Based on data from the clinical trials , 7 to 17 % of women using Tri - Lo - Mili experienced unscheduled bleeding per cycle in the first year .
The percent of women who experienced unscheduled bleeding tended to decrease over time .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use Tri - Lo - Mili may experience amenorrhea .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Tri - Lo - Mili if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Tri - Lo - Mili is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer A causal relationship between the use of CHCs and the development of cervical cancer and intraepithelial neoplasia has not been clearly established .
In observational studies , some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in labeling : • • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • • Irregular uterine bleeding • • Nausea • • Breast tenderness • • Headache The most common adverse reactions reported during clinical trials ( ≥ 2 % ) were : headache / migraine , nausea / vomiting , breast issues , abdominal pain , menstrual disorders , mood disorders , acne , vulvovaginal infection , abdominal distension , weight increased , fatigue .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of Tri - Lo - Mili was evaluated in 1 , 723 subjects who participated in a randomized , partially blinded , multicenter , active - controlled clinical trial of Tri - Lo - Mili for contraception .
This trial examined healthy , nonpregnant , volunteers aged 18 to 45 ( nonsmoker if 35 to 45 years of age ) , who were sexually active with regular coitus .
Subjects were followed for up to 13 28 - day cycles .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 1 , 723 women using the 28 - day regimen were the following in order of decreasing incidence : headache / migraine ( 30 . 5 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 16 . 3 % ) ; breast issues ( including tenderness , pain , enlargement , swelling , discharge , discomfort , cyst , and nipple pain ) ( 10 . 3 % ) , abdominal pain ( 9 . 2 % ) , menstrual disorders ( including dysmenorrhea , menstrual discomfort , menstrual disorder ) ( 9 . 2 % ) , mood disorders ( including depression , mood altered , mood swings and depressed mood ) ( 7 . 6 % ) ; acne ( 5 . 1 % ) , vulvovaginal infection ( 3 . 5 % ) , abdominal distension ( 2 . 8 % ) , weight increased ( 2 . 4 % ) , fatigue ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : In the clinical trial of Tri - Lo - Mili 4 % of subjects discontinued the trial due to an adverse reaction .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were headache / migraine ( 1 . 2 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 0 . 7 % ) , cervical dysplasia ( 0 . 7 % ) , abdominal pain ( 0 . 4 % ) , ovarian cyst ( 0 . 3 % ) , acne ( 0 . 2 % ) , flatulence ( 0 . 2 % ) and depression ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : carcinoma of the cervix in situ ( 1 subject ) and cervical dysplasia ( 1 subject ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use .
Figure 1 : Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptive Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with norgestimate / ethinyl estradiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and Infestations : Urinary tract infection Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified ( Including Cysts and Polyps ) : Breast cancer , benign breast neoplasm , hepatic adenoma , focal nodular hyperplasia , breast cyst Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Dyslipidemia Psychiatric Disorders : Anxiety , insomnia Nervous System Disorders : Syncope , convulsion , paresthesia , dizziness Eye Disorders : Visual impairment , dry eye , contact lens intolerance Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Vertigo Cardiac Disorders : Tachycardia , palpitations Vascular Events : Deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , retinal vascular thrombosis , hot flush Arterial Events : Arterial thromboembolism , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders : Pancreatitis , abdominal distension , diarrhea , constipation Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioedema , erythema nodosum , hirsutism , night sweats , hyperhidrosis , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria , pruritus , acne Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue , and Bone Disorders : Muscle spasms , pain in extremity , myalgia , back pain Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Ovarian cyst , suppressed lactation , vulvovaginal dryness General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Chest pain , asthenic conditions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Tri - Lo - Mili .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of COCs include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between COCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances Increasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Protease Inhibitors and Non - nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ] ) or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs • • COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
• • COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs .
7 . 3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
7 . 4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Tri - Lo - Mili with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing mothers : Not recommended ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Do not administer COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Tri - Lo - Mili tablets have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for post - pubertal adolescents under the age of 18 and for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Tri - Lo - Mili has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Tri - Lo - Mili has not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Tri - Lo - Mili has not been studied in women with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdosage of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Tri - Lo - Mili is a combination oral contraceptive containing the progestational compound norgestimate and the estrogenic compound ethinyl estradiol .
Norgestimate is designated as ( 18 , 19 - Dinor - 17 - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 13 - ethyl - , oxime , ( 17α ) - ( + ) - ) and ethinyl estradiol is designated as ( 19 - nor - 17α - pregna , 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol ) .
• • Each active white to off white tablet contains 0 . 180 mg of norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg of ethinyl estradiol USP .
Inactive ingredients include croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
• • Each active pale blue to bluish white tablet contains 0 . 215 mg of norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg of ethinyl estradiol USP .
Inactive ingredients include croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
• • Each active blue to light blue tablet contains 0 . 250 mg of norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg of ethinyl estradiol USP .
Inactive ingredients include croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
• • Each green placebo tablet contains only inert ingredients , as follows : anhydrous lactose , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , ferric oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Tri - Lo - Mili .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norgestimate ( NGM ) and EE are rapidly absorbed following oral administration .
NGM is rapidly and completely metabolized by first pass ( intestinal and / or hepatic ) mechanisms to norelgestromin ( NGMN ) and norgestrel ( NG ) , which are the major active metabolites of NGM .
Mean pharmacokinetic parameters for NGMN , NG and EE during three cycles of administration of Tri - Lo - Mili are summarized in Table 3 .
Peak serum concentrations of NGMN and EE were generally reached by 2 hours after administration of Tri - Lo - Mili .
Accumulation following multiple dosing of the 0 . 180 mg NGM / 0 . 025 mg EE dose is approximately 1 . 5 to 2 fold for NGMN and approximately 1 . 5 fold for EE compared with single dose administration , in agreement with that predicted based on linear kinetics of NGMN and EE .
The pharmacokinetics of NGMN is dose proportional following NGM doses of 0 . 180 to 0 . 250 mg .
Steady - state conditions for NGMN following each NGM dose and for EE were achieved during the three cycle study .
Non - linear accumulation ( 4 . 5 to 14 . 5 fold ) of NG was observed as a result of high affinity binding to SHBG , which limits its biological activity .
Table 3 Summary of NGMN , NG and EE pharmacokinetic parameters .
Table 1 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Tri - Lo - Mili During a Three Cycle Study 1 NGMN = Norelgestromin , NG = norgestrel , EE = ethinyl estradiol 2 Cmax = peak serum concentration , tmax = time to reach peak serum concentration , AUC0 - 24 h = area under serum concentration vs . time curve from 0 to 24 hours , t1 / 2 = elimination half - life .
3 units for all analytes ; h = hours 4 units for NGMN and NG – Cmax = ng / mL , AUC0 - 24 h = h • ng / mL 5 units for EE only – Cmax = pg / mL , AUC0 - 24 h = h • pg / mL NC = not calculated Analyte1 Cycle Day Cmax tmax ( h ) AUC0 - 24 h t1 / 2 ( h ) NGMN ( 2 - 4 ) 1 1 0 . 91 ( 0 . 27 ) 1 . 8 ( 1 ) 5 . 86 ( 1 . 54 ) NC 3 7 1 . 42 ( 0 . 43 ) 1 . 8 ( 0 . 7 ) 11 . 3 ( 3 . 2 ) NC 14 1 . 57 ( 0 . 39 ) 1 . 8 ( 0 . 7 ) 13 . 9 ( 3 . 7 ) NC 21 1 . 82 ( 0 . 54 ) 1 . 5 ( 0 . 7 ) 16 . 1 ( 4 . 8 ) 28 . 1 ( 10 . 6 ) NG ( 2 - 4 ) 1 1 0 . 32 ( 0 . 14 ) 2 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 . 44 ( 2 . 04 ) NC 3 7 1 . 64 ( 0 . 89 ) 1 . 9 ( 0 . 9 ) 27 . 9 ( 18 . 1 ) NC 14 2 . 11 ( 1 . 13 ) 4 ( 6 . 3 ) 40 . 7 ( 24 . 8 ) NC 21 2 . 79 ( 1 . 42 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 2 ) 49 . 9 ( 27 . 6 ) 36 . 4 ( 10 . 2 ) EE ( 2 , 3 , 5 ) 1 1 55 . 6 ( 18 . 1 ) 1 . 7 ( 0 . 5 ) 421 ( 118 ) NC 3 7 91 . 1 ( 36 . 7 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 782 ( 329 ) NC 14 96 . 9 ( 38 . 5 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 796 ( 273 ) NC 21 95 . 9 ( 38 . 9 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 6 ) 771 ( 303 ) 17 . 7 ( 4 . 4 ) Food Effect The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of Tri - Lo - Mili has not been studied .
Distribution NGMN and NG are highly bound ( > 97 % ) to serum proteins .
NGMN is bound to albumin and not to SHBG , while NG is bound primarily to SHBG .
EE is extensively bound ( > 97 % ) to serum albumin and induces an increase in the serum concentrations of SHBG .
Metabolism NGM is extensively metabolized by first - pass mechanisms in the gastrointestinal tract and / or liver .
NGM ’ s primary active metabolite is NGMN .
Subsequent hepatic metabolism of NGMN occurs and metabolites include NG , which is also active and various hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites .
Although NGMN and its metabolites inhibit a variety of P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes , under the recommended dosing regimen , the in vivo concentrations of NGMN and its metabolites , even at the peak serum levels , are relatively low compared to the inhibitory constant ( Ki ) .
EE is also metabolized to various hydroxylated products and their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates .
Excretion Following 3 cycles of administration of Tri - Lo - Mili , the mean ( ± SD ) elimination half - life values , at steady - state , for NGMN , NG and EE were 28 . 1 ( ± 10 . 6 ) hours , 36 . 4 ( ± 10 . 2 ) hours and 17 . 7 ( ± 4 . 4 ) hours , respectively ( Table 2 ) .
The metabolites of NGMN and EE are eliminated by renal and fecal pathways .
Use in Specific Populations Effects of Body Weight , Body Surface Area , and Age The effects of body weight , body surface area , age and race on the pharmacokinetics of NGMN , NG and EE were evaluated in 79 healthy women using pooled data following single dose administration of NGM 0 . 180 or 0 . 250 mg / EE 0 . 025 mg tablets in four pharmacokinetic studies .
Increasing body weight and body surface area were each associated with decreases in Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h values for NGMN and EE and increases in CL / F ( oral clearance ) for EE .
Increasing body weight by 10 kg is predicted to reduce the following parameters : NGMN Cmax by 9 % and AUC0 - 24 h by 19 % , NG Cmax by 12 % and AUC0 - 24 h by 46 % , EE Cmax by 13 % and AUC0 - 24 h by 12 % .
These changes were statistically significant .
Increasing age was associated with slight decreases ( 6 % with increasing age by 5 years ) in Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h for NGMN and were statistically significant , but there was no significant effect for NG or EE .
Only a small to moderate fraction ( 5 to 40 % ) of the overall variability in the pharmacokinetics of NGMN and EE following Tri - Lo - Mili tablets may be explained by any or all of the above demographic parameters .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In an active controlled clinical trial lasting 12 months , 1 , 673 women , 18 to 45 years old completed 11 , 003 cycles of Tri - Lo - Mili use and a total of 20 pregnancies were reported in Tri - Lo - Mili users .
The racial demographic of those treated with Tri - Lo - Mili was : Caucasian ( 86 % ) , African - American ( 6 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 6 % ) .
There were no exclusions on the basis of weight ; the weight range for women treated was 90 to 240 lbs , with a mean weight of about 142 lbs .
The pregnancy rate in women aged 18 to 35 years was approximately 2 . 6 pregnancies per 100 woman - years of use .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Tri - Lo - Mili ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) are available in a blister pack .
Each blister pack ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • • 7 white to off white , round , biconvex , coated tablets ( active ) , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 15 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 180 mg , norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol USP • • 7 pale blue to bluish white , round , biconvex , coated tablets ( active ) , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 16 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 215 mg norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol USP • • 7 blue to light blue , round , biconvex , coated tablets , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 17 ” on other side of the tablet contains 0 . 250 mg norgestimate USP and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol USP • • 7 green , round , mottled , biconvex , uncoated tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) , debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 24 ” on other side of the tablet contains inert ingredients The blister packs are available in the following packages : Carton of 1 Blister Pack NDC 71205 - 746 - 28 16 . 2 Storage Conditions • • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• • Protect from light .
• Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instruction for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• • Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Tri - Lo - Mili instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event tablets are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Tri - Lo - Mili [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • COCs may reduce breast milk production , this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Women who start COCs postpartum ; and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a white to off white tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Revised : 06 / 2022 Patient Information Tri - Lo - Mili ( trahy - loh - mil - ee ) ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) What is the most important information I should know about Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Do not use Tri - Lo - Mili if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Tri - Lo - Mili is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does Tri - Lo - Mili work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results from the clinical study , about 3 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Tri - Lo - Mili .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Do not take Tri - Lo - Mili if you : • • smoke and are over 35 years of age • • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • • had a stroke • • had a heart attack • • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • • have liver problems , including liver tumors • • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
• • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • • are pregnant • • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones If any of these conditions happen while you are taking Tri - Lo - Mili , stop taking Tri - Lo - Mili right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Tri - Lo - Mili may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in Tri - Lo - Mili may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Tri - Lo - Mili may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well Tri - Lo - Mili works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of Tri - Lo - Mili ?
• • Like pregnancy , Tri - Lo - Mili may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • • first start taking birth control pills • • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • • leg pain that will not go away • • sudden severe shortness of breath • • sudden change in vision or blindness • • chest pain • • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • • liver problems , including : • orare liver tumors • ojaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• • high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• • gallbladder problems • • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • • irregular or unusual vaginal bleeding and spotting between your menstrual periods , especially during the first 3 months of taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
• • depression • • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• • dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of Tri - Lo - Mili ?
• • headache ( including migraine ) • • nausea and vomiting • • breast problems • otenderness , pain and discomfort • oenlargement and swelling • odischarge • onipple pain • • stomach pain • • pain with your periods ( menstrual cycle ) • • mood changes , including depression • • acne • • vaginal infections • • bloating • • weight gain • • fatigue These are not all the possible side effects of Tri - Lo - Mili .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking Tri - Lo - Mili ?
• • If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
Certain blood tests may be affected by Tri - Lo - Mili .
• • Tri - Lo - Mili does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store Tri - Lo - Mili ?
• • Store Tri - Lo - Mili at room temperature between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
• • Keep Tri - Lo - Mili and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• • Store away from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of Tri - Lo - Mili .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Tri - Lo - Mili for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Tri - Lo - Mili to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about Tri - Lo - Mili .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Tri - Lo - Mili that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 .
Does hormonal birth control cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills causes breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking Tri - Lo - Mili , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in Tri - Lo - Mili ?
Active ingredients : Each white to off white , pale blue to bluish white , and blue to light blue pill contains norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : White to off white pills : croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
Pale blue to bluish white pills : croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
Blue to light blue pills : croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
Green pills : anhydrous lactose , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , ferric oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions For Use Tri - Lo - Mili ( trahy - loh - mil - ee ) ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) Important Information about taking Tri - Lo - Mili • • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill blister pack .
• • Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• • If you have trouble remembering to take Tri - Lo - Mili , talk to your healthcare provider .
When you first start taking Tri - Lo - Mili , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• • You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• • Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see What should I do if I miss any Tri - Lo - Mili pills ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• • It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken Tri - Lo - Mili according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking Tri - Lo - Mili .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 to 4 hours of taking your pill , take another pill of the same color from your extra pill blister pack .
If you do not have an extra pill blister pack , take the next pill in your pill blister pack .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next pill blister pack the day after finishing your current pill blister pack .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms and a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• • Stop taking Tri - Lo - Mili at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms and spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili : • • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your pill blister pack .
• • Have backup contraception ( condoms and spermicide ) available and if possible , an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking Tri - Lo - Mili ?
If you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• • If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Tri - Lo - Mili .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili and you are switching from another birth control pill : • • Start your new Tri - Lo - Mili pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• • Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • • Start using Tri - Lo - Mili on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • • Start taking Tri - Lo - Mili on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking Tri - Lo - Mili and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • • Start taking Tri - Lo - Mili on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• • You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Tri - Lo - Mili .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , “ When should I start taking Tri - Lo - Mili ? ”
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• • Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
• • If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill “ 1 ” that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• • Take 1 pill every day in the order on the pill blister pack at the same time each day for 28 days .
• • After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• • Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take Tri - Lo - Mili .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• • Take 1 pill every day in the order of the pill blister pack , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
• • After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
Tri - Lo - Mili comes in Blister Pack .
1 .
Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
2 .
The 28 - pill pack has 21 white to off white , pale blue to bluish white , and blue to light blue “ active ” pills ( with hormones ) to take for 3 weeks .
This is followed by 1 week of green “ reminder ” pills ( without hormones ) .
3 .
Also find : 1 ) where on the pack to start taking pills , 2 ) in what order to take the pills , and 3 ) the week numbers as shown in the picture below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Be sure you have ready at all times : Another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) to use as a back - up method in case you miss pills .
An extra , full pill pack .
You have a choice of which day to start taking your first pack of pills .
Tri - Lo - Mili is available in a blister pack which is preset for a Sunday Start .
Day 1 Start stickers are also provided .
Decide with your healthcare professional which is the best day for you .
Pick a time of day that will be easy to remember .
Sunday Start : Take the first white to off white “ active ” pill of the first pack on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the pack that same day .
Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first pack until the next Sunday ( 7 days ) .
Day 1 Start : Take the first white to off white " active " pill of the first pack during the first 24 hours of your period .
• 1 .
Pick the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period ( this is the day you start bleeding or spotting , even if it is almost midnight when the bleeding begins ) .
• 2 .
Place this day label strip in the cycle tablet over the area that has the days of the week ( starting with Sunday ) imprinted in the plastic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : If the first day of your period is a Sunday , you can skip steps # 1 and # 2 .
You will not need to use a back - up method of birth control , since you are starting the pill at the beginning of your period .
What should I do if I miss any Tri - Lo - Mili pills ?
If you miss 1 pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• • Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pills in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• • Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pills in a row in Week 3 , or you miss 3 or more pills in a row during Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 of the pack , follow these steps : • • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• • You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• • You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
• • If you are a Sunday Starter : • • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• • Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Revised : 06 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Blister Pouch Label 28 day NDC 71205 - 746 - 28 Regimen Tri - Lo - Mili ® ( norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) 0 . 180 mg / 0 . 025 mg 0 . 215 mg / 0 . 025 mg 0 . 250 mg / 0 . 025 mg This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Rx only 1 Pouch of 28 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
