Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Purpose Dexbrompheniramine maleate 1 mg Antihistamine Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride 30 mg Nasal Decongestant Purpose Antihistamine Nasal Decongestant Warnings DO not use If you are taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains an MAOI , ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you are taking sedative or tranquilizers .
Ask a doctore before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • glaucoma • difficulty in urinations due to the enlargment of the prostate gland .
When using this product • Do not exceed the recommended dosage • excitability may occur , espicially in children • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic beverages • alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • use cuation when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with fever .
Keep out of reach of children . In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a Health Professional before use .
Directions do not exceed 4 doses in 24 hours .
adults and children 12 years of age and over take two teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take one teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Uses • Temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold , hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • helps decongest sinus opening and sinus passages • reduces swelling of nasal pasages , shrinks swollen membranes , and temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • temporarily alleviates the following symptoms due to hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy and watery eyes Inactive ingredients Aspertame , cherry flavor , citric acid , glycerine , menthol , methylparaben , potsassium citrate , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben and purified water .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 305 - 403 - 3788 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
