[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredients Octisalate 5 % Zinc oxide 3 . 75 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using the product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a PoisonControlCenter right away .
Directions • gently smooth over cleansed face and neck daily • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information • protect from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients purified water , caprylic / capric triglyceride ( coconut / palm ) , squalane ( olives ) , glycerin , tapioca starch , sucrose distearate ( sugar ) , sucrose stearate , sunflower seed wax , palm butter , hydrogenated soybean oil , citric acid , lauric acid ( coconut ) , beeswax , rice bran wax , allantoin , rosewood oil , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , hyaluronic acid ( natural skin conditioner ) , saccharomyces / hexapeptide - 11 ferment extract ( natural collagen builder ) , polylysine ( natural preservative ) , honeysuckle extract ( natural preservative ) Principal panel display new !
the power of pure ® puristics ® totallyageless ® SPF 15 Daily Anti - Aging SUNSCREEN LOTION Broad Spectrum SPF 15 hydrates for younger looking skin 1 . 7 FL OZ ( 50 ml ) Pure .
Safe .
Effective .
naturally preserved & fragrance free no parabens , phthalates or sulfates no animal testing Learn more at www . puristics . com Puristics Totally Ageless SPF 15 Daily Anti - Aging Sunscreen Lotion is unique because it starts with purity and ends with purity .
There are no harmful chemicals , fragrances or toxins added at any step in the process .
Powered by a naturally occurring peptide complex , our vitamin enriched product has been proven to be safe and effective .
hydrates for younger looking skin hypoallergenic free from harmful chemicals © 2011 Distributed by Scerene Healthcare , Inc .
Peapack , NJ 07977 1 - 877 - 267 - 0519 13010511 Actual Size discover the power of pure At Puristics , we believe in the Power of Pure - anti - aging skin care products without any potentially harmful chemicals that could seep into your skin .
We ’ ve created our products using the latest science to unleash the power of naturally derived ingredients , combining them in unique ways to maximize their effectiveness without compromising purity .
Pure .
Safe .
Effective .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
