Phentermine Hydrochloride Capsules , USP Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Phentermine hydrochloride has the chemical name of α , α , - Dimethylphenethylamine hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phentermine hydrochloride , is a white , odorless , hygroscopic , crystalline powder which is soluble in water and lower alcohols ; slightly soluble in chloroform and insoluble in ether .
Phentermine hydrochloride , an anorectic agent for oral administration , is available as : a ) powder - filled capsules containing 15 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 12 mg Phentermine ) or 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , gelatin , lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the 15 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 , FD & C Red # 40 , titanium dioxide and the 30 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 3 , titanium dioxide .
b ) bead - filled capsules containing 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , sucrose , hypromellose , povidone , and talc .
In addition , the capsule contains FD & C blue # 1 / Brilliant blue FCF aluminum lake , D & C red # 28 and gelatin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , the amphetamines .
Actions include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as “ anorectics ” or “ anorexigenics . ”
It has not been established that the action of such drugs in treating obesity is primarily one of appetite suppression .
Other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may be involved , for example .
Adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with “ anorectic ” drugs lose more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet , as determined in relatively short - term clinical trials .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “ anorectic ” drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drugs prescribed , such as the physician - investigator , the population treated and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured in years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks ’ duration ; thus , the total impact of drug induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically limited .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine hydrochloride is indicated as a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg / m2 , or ≥ 27 kg / m2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
Below is a chart of Body Mass Index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ’ s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ’ s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches x 0 . 0254 = meters .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The limited usefulness of agents of this class ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Advanced arteriosclerosis , cardiovascular disease , moderate to severe hypertension , hyperthyroidism , known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines , glaucoma .
Agitated states .
Patients with history of drug abuse .
During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( hypertensive crises may result ) .
WARNINGS Phentermine hydrochloride capsules are indicated only as short - term monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity .
The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , paroxetine ) , have not been established .
Therefore , coadministration of these drug products for weight loss is not recommended .
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension ( PPH ) – a rare , frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine .
The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea .
Other initial symptoms include : angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance .
Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Valvular Heart Disease : Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , primarily affecting the mitral , aortic and / or tricuspid valves , has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss .
The etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known .
The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
Tolerance to the anorectic effect usually develops within a few weeks .
When this occurs , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Usage with Alcohol : Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug interaction .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution is to be exercised in prescribing phentermine hydrochloride for patients with even mild hypertension .
Insulin requirements in diabetes mellitus may be altered in association with the use of phentermine and the concomitant dietary regimen .
Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of guanethidine .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies have not been performed with phentermine hydrochloride to determine the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine hydrochloride .
It is also not known whether phentermine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Phentermine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular : Primary pulmonary hypertension and / or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease ( see WARNINGS ) , palpitation , tachycardia , elevation of blood pressure .
Central Nervous System : Overstimulation , restlessness , dizziness , insomnia , euphoria , dysphoria , tremor , headache ; rarely psychotic episodes at recommended doses .
Gastrointestinal : Dryness of the mouth , unpleasant taste , diarrhea , constipation , other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Allergic : Urticaria .
Endocrine : Impotence , changes in libido .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused , and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage to many times that recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of acute overdosage with phentermine include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmias , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Fatal poisoning usually terminates in convulsions and coma .
Management of acute phentermine intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases phentermine excretion .
Intravenous phentolamine has been suggested for possible acute , severe hypertension , if this complicates phentermine overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
Exogenous Obesity : The usual adult dose is 15 mg to 30 mg at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
Administration of one capsule ( 30 mg ) daily has been found to be adequate in depression of the appetite for 12 to 14 hours .
Phentermine is not recommended for use in patients 16 years of age and under .
HOW SUPPLIED Phentermine hydrochloride capsules , USP are available as follows : Phentermine hydrochloride capsules , USP 15 mg are supplied as gray opaque cap , rich yellow opaque body with black imprint “ K 26 ” on both the cap and body , filled with powder .
Bottles of 7 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 07 Bottles of 8 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 08 Bottles of 14 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 14 Bottles of 15 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 15 Bottles of 23 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 23 Bottles of 28 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 28 Bottles of 30 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 30 Bottles of 40 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 40 Bottles of 45 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 45 Bottles of 60 , NDC 33261 - 361 - 60 Phentermine hydrochloride capsules , USP 30 mg are supplied as blue cap , natural body with black imprint “ K 28 ” on both the cap and body , filled with white and blue colored beads .
Bottles of 7 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 07 Bottles of 8 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 08 Bottles of 14 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 14 Bottles of 15 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 15 Bottles of 23 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 23 Bottles of 28 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 28 Bottles of 30 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 30 Bottles of 40 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 40 Bottles of 45 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 45 Bottles of 60 , NDC 33261 - 366 - 60 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Protect from moisture .
Manufactured by : KVK - TECH INC .
110 Terry Drive Newtown , PA 18940 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Item ID # 006070 / 00 Manufacturer ’ s Code : 10702 03 / 08 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92280 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 mg Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 mg Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
