BLOOD - PACK UNIT Blood - Pack Unit with an Integral Bioflex RC Leukocyte Reduction Filter Using CPD / Adsol Red Cell Preservation Solution for Whole Blood Collection and Filtration of Red Blood Cells Contains Sample Diversion System for the collection of unanticoagulated whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Integral filter unit intended for leukocyte reduction of AS - 1 red blood cells : • At ambient temperature up to 8 hours after blood collection .
• At refrigerated temperature up to 3 days after blood collection if AS - 1 red blood cells are prepared within 3 days after whole blood collection .
The leukocyte reduced red blood cells may then be stored for the maximum allowable dating period .
Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique .
Notes : • If sample diversion system is not used , donor samples may be collected using an alternative method following standard procedures .
• Nominal tubing dimensions of product are 0 . 118 " inner diameter x 0 . 025 " wall thickness .
Precautions : • Upon removal of Blood - Pack Unit from the clear plastic overwrap , visually inspect the unit .
• Do not use the product if the in - line cannula is broken and / or anticoagulant is present in the sample pouch or in the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle ( see Figure 1 ) .
Note that condensation in the empty tubing of the Blood - Pack Unit is expected as a result of the sterilization process .
• Do not use unless the solutions are clear .
1 .
Identify Blood - Pack Unit using appropriate donor identification system .
2 .
Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight and position primary container on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
3 .
Clamp donor tubing between needle and Y - junction with a clamp .
( This step may be performed prior to step 1 or 2 . )
4 .
Visually inspect the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle , as well as the sample pouch to reconfirm that there is no anticoagulant present .
Note : Ensure that the sample pouch remains below the donor ’ s arm .
5 .
Following blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ’ s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
6 .
Remove needle cover per instructions below : a ) Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
b ) Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
7 .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release clamp on donor tubing .
When good blood flow is established , stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape ( see Figure 2 ) .
8 .
Allow the sample pouch to fill with blood according to center procedure .
Monitor blood flow into sample pouch .
Notes : • The sample pouch contains an average fill volume of approximately 53 mL with a maximum fill volume of approximately 60 mL when filled to capacity .
• If less blood sample volume is required , the flow to the sample pouch may be stopped prior to completely filling the pouch .
For example , in order to target a fill volume of approximately 40 mL , fill to the level indicated by the arrows in Figure 1 .
Ensure the pouch is hanging vertically .
• The tube leading from the Y - junction to the sample pouch contains an additional volume of approximately 2 mL .
Precautions : • Do not elevate or squeeze the sample pouch as this could cause blood to backflow from the sample pouch into the collection system .
• Once the sample pouch is filled to desired volume , complete steps 9 – 17 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing and / or sample pouch .
9 .
Close the blue clamp on tubing between the Y - junction and the sample pouch .
10 .
Break the in - line cannula below the Y - junction in the donor tubing to the primary container allowing blood collection to proceed .
To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction , and then bend it at a 90 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Ensure the in - line cannula is completely broken and that the blood flows freely to the primary container .
Precaution : Failure to break the in - line cannula completely may result in restricted blood flow .
11 .
Mix blood and anticoagulant in the primary container immediately , at several intervals during collection , and immediately after collection .
12 .
Following blood center procedures , hermetically seal the tubing between the sampling site and the Y - junction to maintain sterility of the blood collection system prior to removing blood samples .
Warning : • Do not proceed with the remaining steps until the tubing leading to the sample pouch is hermetically sealed between the sampling site and the Y - junction .
To maintain the whole blood collection container as a closed system , the tubing between the sample pouch and Y - junction must be hermetically sealed prior to inserting the access device into the sampling site .
Failure to do so may lead to contamination of the whole blood collection .
13 .
To collect samples , insert the access device by pushing firmly into the sampling site until the membrane seal is penetrated .
Note : If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon insertion to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
14 .
Open the cap on the access device ( if applicable ) .
Hold access device so that the sample pouch hangs down .
15 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device until the stopper is punctured .
16 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
17 .
Repeat steps 15 and 16 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
Notes : • If the access device needs to be replaced , clamp the tubing between the sampling site and the sample pouch .
Then grasp base of sampling site with one hand and pull the access device out with the other hand .
Firmly insert the new access device .
Remove clamp and continue sampling .
• If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon removal to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
• The access device can only be replaced one time .
Precaution : When replacing access device , be careful to avoid contact with any blood droplets on the Luer or sampling site .
Discard used access device appropriately .
18 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on Blood - Pack Unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on Blood - Pack Unit ± 10 % .
Precaution : Once the desired blood volume is collected , complete steps 19 – 23 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
19 .
Release pressure on donor ’ s arm .
If appropriate , apply clamp to donor tubing between needle and the Y - junction .
20 .
Hermetically seal donor tubing between the in - line cannula and the primary container .
21 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) .
Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
b ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
c ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
22 .
Remove and discard the sample diversion system and needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
If donor tubing is also to be discarded , hermetically seal donor tubing directly above the primary container and remove .
Note : Step 23 may be performed prior to step 22 if desired .
23 .
If the donor tubing is not hermetically sealed directly above the primary container , then strip the blood from the remaining donor tubing into the primary container and mix .
If desired , allow tubing to refill .
Component Preparation : Notes : • If a platelet concentrate is to be prepared , it should be separated within 8 hours after blood collection .
• Fresh frozen plasma should be separated from the red blood cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
• Adsol red cell preservation solution should be added to the red blood cells immediately after the removal of plasma .
Preparation of AS - 1 red blood cells may vary depending on processing option selected : a ) Within 8 hours of blood collection if whole blood is held at ambient temperature .
b ) Within 3 days of blood collection if whole blood is refrigerated .
24 .
At the appropriate time , prepare the Blood - Pack Unit with integral filter for centrifugation .
25 .
Thoroughly mix the primary container end over end .
26 .
Load the Blood - Pack Unit into a centrifuge cup per the instructions on page 3 or 4 .
Page 3 describes Option A , the method of centrifuge cup loading when using standard oval centrifuge cups .
Page 4 describes Option B , the method of centrifuge cup loading when using large oval centrifuge cups .
This method differs from Option A in steps 7 – 9 only and shows the use of a blood bag insert to help fill extra space inside the cup .
Notes : - This guide is one method for centrifuge cup loading and applies to all Bioflex RC configurations .
The specific stacking order and methods may vary depending on te workstation setup , centrifuge equipment , and your facilities Standard Operating Procedures .
- It is important to pack the filter properly in the centrifugation cup to avoid damage to the filter during centrifugation .
- Do not place the filter in the lower half of the centrifuge cup .
See step 3 on page 3 or 4 for proper placement of filter .
- Do not press directly on the cannulae while performing any of the cup loading steps as this may cause pre - activation of the cannulae 27 .
After loading the Blood - Pack unit into the centrifuge cup , perform centrifugation according to center procedures .
28 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifuge cup taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
29 .
Place primary container in a plasma extractor and apply pressure .
Clamp off tubing above the filter to prevent plasma flow into filter during plasma transfer .
If applicable , clamp off tubing below Y - Junction leading to secondary Transfer - Pack container not to be filled with plasma .
Open the cannula on the top of the primary container to transfer plasma into the empty Transfer - Pack container .
30 .
When the desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp the tubing between the plasma container and the Y - connector closest to the plasma container and release pressure on the primary container .
Seal and remove satellite container ( s ) .
31 .
Suspend the Adsol red cell preservation solution container ensuring that the primary container remains below the level of the filter during prime .
Open the cannula on the Adsol solution container and remove the clamp between the primary container and the filter .
Allow the Adsol to drain through the filter into the primary container .
Clamp the tubing between the filter and the primary container after prime is complete .
32 .
Mix the Adsol red cell preservation solution and red cells thoroughly .
Note : If the Adsol red cell preservation solution is not added to the red cells , ensure appropriate labeling of the red cell container .
Also ensure that tubing with unique segment numbers are attached as the primary container does not include tubing with segment numbers .
Manufacture of CPD Red Cells for transfusion must include proper labeling of the container as well as attached tubing with unique segment numbers .
A CPD red cell without Adsol red cell preservation solution may be stored between 1 and 6ºC up to 21 days after collection .
The attached Bioflex RC filter should not be used to leukoreduce a CPD red cell without Adsol red cell preservation solution .
Filtration Procedure : Precaution : Red blood cell products collected from certain donors may have extended filtration times and the potential for ineffective filtration and leukoreduction .
33 .
Mix unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells thoroughly .
Invert the unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells and hang the filter set such that the filter remains vertical .
Filtration may be performed from 165 cm up to full length .
To achieve maximum flow rate , allow the set to hang to full length .
The storage container must remain below the level of the filter during filtration .
34 .
Filtration must be initiated up to 8 hours after collection at ambient condition or up to 3 days at refrigerated temperature .
35 .
Inspect all tubing to ensure it hangs freely without kinks .
36 .
Remove the clamp above the filter to start filtration .
Note : Manual or mechanical pressure should not be used to increase the flow rate through the filter .
Tubing below the filter should not be stripped at any time during the filtration process .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : If filtration of red cells is initiated at ambient temperature , the filtration process can be completed at either ambient or refrigerated temperature prior to storing the red cells between 1 and 6 ° C . However , for optimal filtration time , it is recommended to complete the filtration at ambient temperature .
37 .
When filtration is complete , air can be observed in the inlet side of the filter .
Hermetically seal and detach the tubing below the filter .
38 .
Make segments from the post filter tubing and leave segments attached to the filtered red cell storage container .
( QC samples may be prepared by thoroughly mixing the filtered red cells and stripping this tubing prior to sealing the segments . )
39 .
Store the AS - 1 red blood cells , leukocytes reduced between 1 and 6 ° C . 40 .
Infuse the red cells within 42 days of collection .
41 .
Percent red blood cell recovery should be determined per FDA Guidance entitled “ Guidance for Industry – Pre - Storage Leukocyte Reduction of Whole Blood and Blood Components Intended for Transfusion ” , current issue .
Warning : Failure to achieve closed system processing conditions negates the extended storage claim and the red blood cell product must be transfused within 24 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Studies : Data table below represents a summary of data generated under study protocol LERF - 003 - CMD .
These data summarize Fenwal Bioflex RC filter performance under defined conditions of product usage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” : “ A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . ”
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc . 12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fenwal , Inc .
Lake Zurich , IL 60047 USA 1 - 800 - 933 - 6925 © 2019 Fenwal , Inc .
All rights reserved .
FENWAL , Blood - Pack , Transfer Pack , Adsol , and Bioflex RC are trademarks of Fenwal , Inc .
Sorvall is a trademark og Thermo Fisher Scientific LLC .
Beckman is trademark of Beckman Coulter , Inc .
07 - 19 - 13 - 427 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 4R1787 10 Units Fenwal Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution , USP ( CPD ) BLOOD - PACK Unit ; TRANSFER - PACK Container with ADSOL Red Cell Preservation Solution ; Integral FENWAL BIOFLEX RC Red Cell Leukocyte Reduction Filter Triple For The Collection and Processing of 500 mL Blood Sample Diversion System , 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall Needle Rx only Each unit consists of a PL146 Plastic primary container with 70 mL of CPD solution containing 1 . 84 g Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 1 . 78 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 209 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 155 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP , pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide ; two empty 400 mL PL2209 Plastic TRANSFER - PACK containers ; one integral FENWAL BIOFLEX RC Red Cell Leukocyte reduction filter and one 450 mL PL2209 Plastic TRANSFER - PACK container with 110 mL of ADSOL Red Cell Preservation Solution containing 2 . 42 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 990 mg Sodium Chloride USP , 825 mg Mannitol USP , 30 mg Adenine USP for the storage of AS - 1 red blood cells , leukocytes reduced .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
See instructions for use .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
• Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : I ) Units are not removed from foil pouch , or II ) Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded .
FENWAL , BLOOD - PACK , ADSOL , BIOFLEX RC , and TRANSFER - PACK are trademarks of Fenwal , Inc .
Fenwal , Inc .
Lake Zurich , IL 60047 USA Made in USA 07 - 28 - 10 - 993 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
