Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • for temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • cosmetics • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • soaps • external genital and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Ask a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • for external anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions shake well before use adults and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age : • Ask a doctor .
for external anal itching : • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• children under 12 years of age with external anal itching : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , isopropyl palmitate , lactic acid , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , sorbitol solution 70 % , stearyl alcohol , white wax .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 645 - 2158 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Rugby Laboratories Maximum Strength HydroSKIN hydrocortisone 1 % Lotion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
