Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % .................................................................... Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external genital , feminine and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings • for external use only Do not use in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• when using this product Avoid contact with the eyes .
Do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor .
Do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop using this product and ask a doctor • if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• if rectal bleeding occurs .
Do not use this product and ask a doctor • if you have a vaginal discharge • before treating diaper rash • before using on children under 2 years of age Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
Directions For itching of skin iritation , inflammation , and rashes : • for adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor For external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
• gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) • Lot No .
and Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube • Retain carton for complete product labeling Inactive ingredients Aloe Vera Gel , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Cetanol , Liquid Paraffin , Methylparaben , Polyoxyethylene Cetylether , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sorbitan Monostearate , Stearyl Alcohol Distributed by : Rugby Laboratories 31778 Enterprise Drive Livonia , MI 48150 USA www . rugbylaboratories . com Made in Korea [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
