L ' BEL HYDRA CALME SPF 15 Intensive Moisturizing Facial Lotion Active Ingredients Octinoxate ( 7 . 5 % ) , Octisalate ( 4 % ) , Oxybenzone ( 4 % ) Uses • Helps prevent sunburn Warnings • Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
• For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use in the morning after cleansing and toning .
Apply small amounts using the fingertips and spreading with upward , circular movements .
Rub gently until absorbed completely .
• Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 years • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other information Aqua ( water ) , c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , pisum sativum extract ( pisum sativum ( pea ) extract ) , cyclohexasiloxane , dimethicone , butylene glycol , cetearyl alcohol , erythritol , hdi / trimethylol hexyllactone crosspolymer , phenoxyethanol , sodium acrylate / acryloyldimethyl - taurate / dimethylacrylamide crosspolymer , c20 - 22 alkyl phosphate , glyceryl stearate , hydroxyethyl acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , propylene glycol , c20 - 22 alcohols , triethanolamine , isohexadecane , methylparaben , parfum ( fragrance ) , c14 - 22 alcohols , cetearyl glucoside , butylparaben , cyclopentasiloxane , chlorphenesin , xanthan gum , propylparaben , acrylates / c10 - 20 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , disodium edta , sorbic acid , polysorbate 60 , c12 - 20 alkyl glucoside , glycerin , hydrolyzed algin , ethylparaben , chlorella vulgaris extract , maris aqua ( sea water ) , isobutylparaben , silica , homarine hcl , rubus chamaemorus fruit extract .
Purpose Sunscreen EXPERT ROUTINE L ' BEL L ' Bel presents Expert Routine , a skin care program with two steps that work together for enhanced results : • Cleanse the skin according to its needs • Nourish according to the age .
HYDRA CALME Intensive moisturizing line To help protect the skin against dehydration , tightness , roughness , dullness and loss of vitality .
L ' Bel presents the Hydra Calme Intensive Moisturizing Line .
A miracle of maximum moisturization and comfort for all ages and skin types .
A new skin care concept whose extraordinary revitalizing and comforting action inundates the skin with a pleasant feeling of freshness , softness and wellbeing to protect it and recover its appearance of beauty and youthfulness .
The fountain of youth the skin needs every day Hydra Calm Intensive Moisturizing Line offers immediate and prolonged moisturization to the areas of the face that need it most .
Its exclusive formulas reestablish the skin ' s hydric balance and facilitate the transportation of water according to the skin ' s moisturization needs .
A discover that changed the concept of moisturization An innovative discovery in the world of cosmetic technology : Hydra Comfort Systeme .
A powerful moisturizing complex based on Arctic Berry Extract , an exceptional source of carbohydrates , vitamins , minerals and antioxidants with comforting and softening properties .
Two formulas for all ages and skin types , both with a soft , comforting texture and rapid absorption properties : 1 .
Intensive moisturizing facial lotion SPF 15 USES : Helps prevent sunburn .
Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection .
Provides moderate protection against sunburn .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash and irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Apply smoothly every morning before sun exposure and as needed .
Use in the morning after cleansing and toning .
Apply small amounts using fingertips and spreading with upward circular movements .
Rub gently until absorbed completed .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Moderate sun protection product .
Other Information : • Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risk of skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
• HYPOALLERGENIC • DERMATOLOGICALLY TESTED 2 .
Intensive moisturizing facial cream gel USE : Use in the morning and / or at night after cleansing and toning .
Apply small amounts using the fingertips and spreading with upward , circular movements .
Rub gently until absorbed completely .
WARNING : For external use only .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if Rash and irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help .
• HYPOALLERGENIC • DERMATOLOGICALLY TESTED L ' BEL HYDRA CALME FPS 15 intensive moisturizing facial lotion SPF 15 50 ml e ( 1 . 6 fl . oz . )
US : Dist .
by Ventural Internationa Ltd .
DBA Bellcorp USA , San Francisco , CA 94111 P . R . Dist .
by Ventura Corporation Ltd . , San Juan , Puerto Rico 00926 MADE IN FRANCE L ' BEL HYDRA CALME SPF 15 Intensive Moisturizing Facial Lotion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
