Active ingredient Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth and sore throat .
Warnings Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat that accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 6 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product , do not exceed recommended dose .
Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • • swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisoning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • Apply to affected area ( one spray ) .
Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out .
Adults and children 12 year of age and older Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist Children under 12 years of age Should be supervised in use of this product Children under 6 years of age Ask a doctor or dentist Other information • • Store at room temperature • • Check expiration date before using .
Inactive ingredients FD & C Red No . 40 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel NDC # 70000 - 0458 - 1 Sore Throat Spray Phenol 1 . 4 % Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Cherry Flavor Sore Throat Relief Sugar - Free 6 FL .
OZ .
( 177 mL ) 100 % Money Back Guarantee Return to place of purchase .
Aspirin - Free COMPARE TO CHLORASEPTIC ® active ingredient * TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use if imprinted shrink band is broken or missing .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Chloraseptic ® .
© 2018 CARDINAL HEALTH , the Cardinal Health LOGO , LEADER and the Leader LOGO are trademark or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
