• Lidocaine 10 . 0 % w / v ( Approximately10 mgper spray ) • Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , • Ethanol , • Isopropyl mrystate , • Tocopherol The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Lidocaine 10 . 0 % w / v ( Approximately10 mgper spray ) Purpose : Male genital desensitizer Purpose Male genital desensitizer Use • helps in the preventation of premature ejaculation • helps in temporarily prolonging thetime until ejaculation • for reducing oversensitivity in the male inadvance of intercourse Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Do not use • on broken or inflamed skin When using this product do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly withwater .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If you or your partner develop a rash or irritation , such as burning or itching , discontinue use .
Ifsymptoms persist , consult a doctor Ask a doctor before use If your partner is pregnant or breast - feeding If you have or have had liver or kidney problems .
When using this pr oduct do not get into eyes or nostrils do not inhale do not exceed a maximum of 6 sprays in 24 hours .
Always use the minimum amount effectivefor you Allow5 - 15 minutes to dry prior to intercourse Premature ejaculation may be due to a condition requiring medical supervision .
If this product , used as directed , does not provide relief , discontinue use and consult a doctor This product is not compatible with condoms .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Use only as directed .
• • Apply1 - 2 sprays , not to exceed 6 , to the head and shaft ofthe penis before intercourse , peruse as directed by a doctor • • Wash product off after intercourse Please read the instructions for use and advice use carefully to achievebest results Other information • Store atroom temperature 20 - 25 o C ( 68 - 77 o F ) Inactive ingredients Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Ethanol , Isopropyl mrystate , Tocopherol Package Label - Principal Display Panel 20 mL NDC : 80554 - 004 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
