This is a hand sanitizing & moisturizing wipes manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizing & moisturizing wipes are manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : Alcohol ( Isopropyl alcohol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 67 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
Glycerin Sodium EDTA PEG 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil Fragrance Aqua .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 67 % v / v .
Purpose : Antimicrobial , Antibacterial Purpose Antimicrobial , Antibacterial Hand sanitizing and moisturizing wipes Use Hand Sanitizing wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on injured or irritated skin • If you are sensitive to any of its ingredients When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 Directions • Wipe hands thoroughly with a towelette .
Allow to dry .
Discard after a single - use .
For External use only .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Aqua , Glycerin , Sodium EDTA , PEG 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Fragrance Hand sanitizing wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
for use when soap and water are not available .
Wipe hands thoroughly with a towelette .
Allow to dry .
Discard after a single - use .
For External use only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
