Active Ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 7 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , use only one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possible swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times a day • because excessive drying of th skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply a sunscreen after using this product .
Allow OC Eight Acne Mattifying Gel to dry , then follow directions in the sunscreen labeling .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other Information Store at controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Inactive Ingredients water , DVB / isobornyl methacrylate / lauryl methacrylate copolymer , propylene glycol , PEG - 400 , carbomer 940 , sodium hydroxide , disodium EDTA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 424 - 6735 weekdays Package Label LET ME BE PERFECTLY CLEAR Acne Treatment Kit NDC 42485 - 004 - 01 AFA Cream Cleanser with Dead Sea Minerals 8 fl oz / 236 mL PRESCRIBEDsolutions Line Subtractor 27 mL / . 9 fl oz OC Eight ® Acne Mattifying Gel 1 . 6 oz / 45 g Marketed by Biopelle , Inc .
A Ferndale Pharma Group company Ferndale , Michigan 48220 www . biopelle . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
