[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosage and Administration , Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) 08 / 2019 WARNING : AGRANULOCYTOSIS AND NEUTROPENIA • FERRIPROX can cause agranulocytosis that can lead to serious infections and death .
Neutropenia may precede the development of agranulocytosis .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Measure the absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) before starting FERRIPROX therapy and monitor weekly while on therapy .
Interrupt FERRIPROX therapy if neutropenia develops .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Interrupt FERRIPROX if infection develops , and monitor the ANC more frequently .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Advise patients taking FERRIPROX to report immediately any symptoms indicative of infection .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] WARNING : AGRANULOCYTOSIS AND NEUTROPENIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• FERRIPROX can cause agranulocytosis that can lead to serious infections and death .
Neutropenia may precede the development of agranulocytosis .
( 5 . 1 ) • Measure the absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) before starting FERRIPROX and monitor weekly while on therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Interrupt FERRIPROX if infection develops and monitor the ANC more frequently .
( 5 . 1 ) • Advise patients taking FERRIPROX to report immediately any symptoms indicative of infection .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FERRIPROX ® is indicated for the treatment of patients with transfusional iron overload due to thalassemia syndromes when current chelation therapy is inadequate .
Approval is based on a reduction in serum ferritin levels .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating a direct treatment benefit , such as improvement in disease - related symptoms , functioning , or increased survival [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Limitations of Use • Safety and effectiveness have not been established for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in patients with other chronic anemias .
FERRIPROX ® is an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of patients with transfusional iron overload due to thalassemia syndromes when current chelation therapy is inadequate .
( 1 ) Approval is based on a reduction in serum ferritin levels .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating a direct treatment benefit , such as improvement in disease - related symptoms , functioning , or increased survival .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in patients with other chronic anemias .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 25 mg / kg to 33 mg / kg body weight , orally , three times per day , for a total daily dose of 75 mg / kg to 99 mg / kg body weight .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Starting Dose The recommended initial dose of FERRIPROX is 25 mg / kg actual body weight , orally , three times per day for a total of 75 mg / kg / day .
Round dose to the nearest 500 mg ( half - tablet ) .
Table 1 a : Tablet requirement to achieve a 25 mg / kg dose ( rounded to the nearest half - tablet ) for administration three times a day . Body Weight Number of 1 , 000 mg tablets ( kg ) Morning Midday Evening 20 0 . 5 0 . 5 0 . 5 30 1 0 . 5 1 40 1 1 1 50 1 . 5 1 1 . 5 60 1 . 5 1 . 5 1 . 5 70 2 1 . 5 2 80 2 2 2 90 2 . 5 2 2 . 5 Dose Adjustments Tailor dose adjustments to the individual patient ’ s response and therapeutic goals ( maintenance or reduction of body iron burden ) .
The maximum dose is 33 mg / kg actual body weight , three times per day for a total of 99 mg / kg / day .
Table 1 b : Tablet requirement to achieve a 33 mg / kg dose ( rounded to the nearest half - tablet ) for administration three times a day . Body Weight Number of 1 , 000 mg tablets ( kg ) Morning Midday Evening 20 0 . 5 0 . 5 1 30 1 1 1 40 1 . 5 1 1 . 5 50 1 . 5 1 . 5 2 60 2 2 2 70 2 . 5 2 2 . 5 80 2 . 5 2 . 5 3 90 3 3 3 Monitor serum ferritin concentration every two to three months to assess the effect of FERRIPROX on body iron stores .
If the serum ferritin is consistently below 500 mcg / L , consider temporarily interrupting FERRIPROX therapy until serum ferritin rises above 500 mcg / L .
2 . 2 Dosage Modification for Drug Interactions Allow at least a 4 - hour interval between administration of FERRIPROX and other drugs or supplements containing polyvalent cations such as iron , aluminum , or zinc [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 1 , 000 mg film - coated , capsule - shaped , white to off - white tablets with functional scoring , and imprinted with “ APO ” score “ 1000 ” on one side and plain on the other .
Tablets : 1 , 000 mg film - coated , with functional scoring .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS FERRIPROX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to deferiprone or to any of the excipients in the formulation .
The following reactions have been reported in association with the administration of deferiprone : Henoch - Schönlein purpura ; urticaria ; and periorbital edema with skin rash [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to deferiprone or to any of the excipients in the formulation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Liver Enzyme Elevations : Monitor monthly and discontinue for persistent elevations .
( 5 . 2 ) • Zinc Deficiency : Monitor during therapy and supplement for deficiency .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Agranulocytosis and Neutropenia Fatal agranulocytosis can occur with FERRIPROX use .
FERRIPROX can also cause neutropenia , which may foreshadow agranulocytosis .
Measure the absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) before starting FERRIPROX therapy and monitor it weekly while on therapy .
Interrupt FERRIPROX therapy if neutropenia develops ( ANC < 1 . 5 x 109 / L ) .
Interrupt FERRIPROX if infection develops and monitor the ANC frequently .
Advise patients taking FERRIPROX to immediately interrupt therapy and report to their physician if they experience any symptoms indicative of infection .
In pooled clinical trials , the incidence of agranulocytosis was 1 . 7 % of patients .
The mechanism of FERRIPROX - associated agranulocytosis is unknown .
Agranulocytosis and neutropenia usually resolve upon discontinuation of FERRIPROX , but there have been reports of agranulocytosis leading to death .
Implement a plan to monitor for and to manage agranulocytosis and neutropenia prior to initiating FERRIPROX treatment .
For agranulocytosis ( ANC < 0 . 5 x 109 / L ) : Consider hospitalization and other management as clinically appropriate .
Do not resume FERRIPROX in patients who have developed agranulocytosis unless potential benefits outweigh potential risks .
Do not rechallenge patients who have developed neutropenia with FERRIPROX unless potential benefits outweigh potential risks .
For neutropenia ( ANC < 1 . 5 x 109 / L and > 0 . 5 x 109 / L ) : Instruct the patient to immediately discontinue FERRIPROX and all other medications with a potential to cause neutropenia .
Obtain a complete blood cell ( CBC ) count , including a white blood cell ( WBC ) count corrected for the presence of nucleated red blood cells , an absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) , and a platelet count daily until recovery ( ANC ≥ 1 . 5 x 109 / L ) .
5 . 2 Liver Enzyme Elevations In clinical studies , 7 . 5 % of 642 patients treated with FERRIPROX developed increased ALT values .
Four ( 0 . 62 % ) FERRIPROX - treated subjects discontinued the drug due to increased serum ALT levels and 1 ( 0 . 16 % ) due to an increase in both ALT and AST .
Monitor serum ALT values monthly during therapy with FERRIPROX and consider interruption of therapy if there is a persistent increase in the serum transaminase levels .
5 . 3 Zinc Deficiency Decreased plasma zinc concentrations have been observed on FERRIPROX therapy .
Monitor plasma zinc , and supplement in the event of a deficiency .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal reproduction studies and evidence of genotoxicity , FERRIPROX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
The available data on the use of FERRIPROX in pregnant women are insufficient to inform risk .
In animal studies , administration of deferiprone during the period of organogenesis resulted in embryofetal death and malformations at doses lower than equivalent human clinical doses .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use an effective method of contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least six months after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least three months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Agranulocytosis and Neutropenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver Enzyme Elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Zinc Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • The most common adverse reactions are ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) nausea , vomiting and abdominal pain , alanine aminotransferase increased , arthralgia and neutropenia .
( 5 . 1 , 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ApoPharma at : Telephone : 1 - 866 - 949 - 0995 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 Email : medicalsafety @ apopharma . com or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reaction information for FERRIPROX represents the pooled data collected from 642 patients who participated in single arm or active - controlled clinical trials .
The most serious adverse reaction reported in clinical trials with FERRIPROX was agranulocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions reported during clinical trials were nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , alanine aminotransferase increased , arthralgia and neutropenia .
The table below lists the adverse drug reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of patients treated with FERRIPROX in clinical trials .
Table 2 : Adverse drug reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of FERRIPROX - treated patientsBody System ( N = 642 ) Adverse Reaction % Subjects BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM DISORDERS Neutropenia 6 Agranulocytosis 2 GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea 13 Abdominal pain / discomfort 10 Vomiting 10 Diarrhea 3 Dyspepsia 2 INVESTIGATIONS Alanine Aminotransferase increased 7 Weight increased 2 Aspartate Aminotransferase increased 1 METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Increased appetite 4 Decreased appetite 1 MUSCULOSKELETAL AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISORDERS Arthralgia 10 Back pain 2 Pain in extremity 2 Arthropathy 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 2 Gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain were the most frequent adverse reactions reported by patients participating in clinical trials and led to the discontinuation of FERRIPROX therapy in 1 . 6 % of patients .
Chromaturia ( reddish / brown discoloration of the urine ) is a result of the excretion of iron in the urine .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving FERRIPROX .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : thrombocytosis , pancytopenia .
Cardiac disorders : atrial fibrillation , cardiac failure .
Congenital , familial and genetic disorders : hypospadias .
Eye disorders : diplopia , papilledema , retinal toxicity .
Gastrointestinal disorders : enterocolitis , rectal hemorrhage , gastric ulcer , pancreatitis , parotid gland enlargement .
General disorders and administration site conditions : chills , pyrexia , edema peripheral , multi - organ failure .
Hepatobiliary disorders : jaundice , hepatomegaly .
Immune system disorders : anaphylactic shock , hypersensitivity .
Infections and infestations : cryptococcal cutaneous infection , enteroviral encephalitis , pharyngitis , pneumonia , sepsis , furuncle , infectious hepatitis , rash pustular , subcutaneous abscess .
Investigations : blood bilirubin increased , blood creatinine phosphokinase increased .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : metabolic acidosis , dehydration .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : myositis , chondropathy , trismus .
Nervous system disorders : cerebellar syndrome , cerebral hemorrhage , convulsion , gait disturbance , intracranial pressure increased , psychomotor skills impaired , pyramidal tract syndrome , somnolence .
Psychiatric disorders : bruxism , depression , obsessive - compulsive disorder .
Renal disorders : glycosuria , hemoglobinuria .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : acute respiratory distress syndrome , epistaxis , hemoptysis , pulmonary embolism .
Skin , subcutaneous tissue disorders : hyperhidrosis , periorbital edema , photosensitivity reaction , pruritis , urticaria , rash , Henoch - Schönlein purpura .
Vascular disorders : hypotension , hypertension .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Associated with Neutropenia or Agranulocytosis : Avoid co - administration .
If co - administration is unavoidable , closely monitor the absolute neutrophil count .
( 7 . 1 ) • UGT1A6 inhibitors : Avoid co - administration .
( 7 . 2 ) • Polyvalent Cations : Allow at least a 4 - hour interval between administration of FERRIPROX and drugs or supplements containing polyvalent cations ( e . g . , iron , aluminum , or zinc ) .
( 2 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Associated with Neutropenia or Agranulocytosis Avoid co - administration of FERRIPROX with other drugs known to be associated with neutropenia or agranulocytosis .
If co - administration is unavoidable , closely monitor the absolute neutrophil count [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effect of Other Drugs on FERRIPROX UDP - Glucuronosyltransferases ( UGTs ) Avoid co - administration of FERRIPROX with a UGT1A6 inhibitor ( e . g . , diclofenac , probenecid , or silymarin ( milk thistle ) ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Polyvalent Cations Deferiprone has the potential to bind polyvalent cations ( e . g . , iron , aluminum , and zinc ) ; allow at least a 4 - hour interval between administration of FERRIPROX and other medications ( e . g . , antacids ) or supplements containing these polyvalent cations [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of deferiprone to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses 33 % and 49 % , respectively , of the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) resulted in structural abnormalities , embryo - fetal mortality and alterations to growth ( see Data ) .
The limited data from FERRIPROX use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
Based on evidence of genotoxicity and developmental toxicity in animal studies , FERRIPROX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Post - marketing data available from 39 pregnancies of FERRIPROX - treated patients and 10 pregnancies of partners of FERRIPROX - treated patients are as follows : Of the 39 pregnancies in FERRIPROX - treated patients , 23 resulted in healthy newborns , 6 ended in spontaneous abortion , 9 had unknown outcomes , and 1 infant was born with anal atresia , nephroptosis , ventricular septal defect , hemivertebra and urethral fistula .
Of the 10 pregnancies in partners of FERRIPROX - treated patients , 5 resulted in healthy newborns , 1 resulted in a healthy newborn with slight hypospadias , 1 was electively terminated , 1 resulted in the intrauterine death of twins , and 2 had unknown outcomes .
Animal Data During organogenesis , pregnant rats and rabbits received deferiprone at oral doses of 0 , 30 , 80 or 200 mg / kg / day , and 0 , 10 , 50 , or 150 mg / kg / day , respectively .
The daily dose was administered as two equal divided doses approximately 7 hours apart .
Doses of 200 mg / kg / day in rats and 150 mg / kg / day in rabbits , approximately 33 % and 49 % of the MRHD , respectively , resulted in increased post - implantation loss and reduced fetal weights in the presence of maternal toxicity ( reduced maternal body weight and body weight gain in both rats and rabbits ; abnormal large placenta at low incidence in rats ) .
The 200 mg / kg / day dose in rats resulted in external , visceral and skeletal fetal malformations , such as cranial malformations , cleft palate , limb malrotation , anal atresia , internal hydrocephaly , anophthalmia , and fused bones .
The dose of 150 mg / kg / day in rabbits resulted in external fetal malformations ( partially opened eyes ) and minor blood vessel and skeletal variations .
In rats , malformations including micrognathia and persistent ductus arteriosus could be observed in the absence of maternal toxicity at doses equal to or greater than 30 and 80 mg / kg / day , approximately 5 % and 13 % of the MHRD , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of deferiprone in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , including the potential for tumorigenicity shown for deferiprone in animal studies , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with FERRIPROX , and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating FERRIPROX .
Contraception Females FERRIPROX can cause embryo - fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least 6 months after the last dose .
Males Based on genotoxicity findings , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of FERRIPROX in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of FERRIPROX did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No cases of acute overdose have been reported .
There is no specific antidote to FERRIPROX overdose .
Neurological disorders such as cerebellar symptoms , diplopia , lateral nystagmus , psychomotor slowdown , hand movements and axial hypotonia have been observed in children treated with 2 . 5 to 3 times the recommended dose for more than one year .
The neurological disorders progressively regressed after deferiprone discontinuation .
11 DESCRIPTION FERRIPROX ( deferiprone ) tablets contain 1 , 000 mg deferiprone ( 3 - hydroxy - 1 , 2 - dimethylpyridin - 4 - one ) , a synthetic , orally active , iron - chelating agent .
The molecular formula for deferiprone is C7H9NO2 and its molecular weight is 139 . 15 g / mol .
Deferiprone has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Deferiprone is a white to pinkish - white powder .
It is sparingly soluble in deionized water and has a melting point range of 272 ° C - 278 ° C . FERRIPROX tablets are white to off - white , capsule - shaped tablets , and imprinted with “ APO ” score “ 1000 ” on one side and plain on the other .
The tablets can be broken in half along the score line .
Each tablet contains 1 , 000 mg deferiprone and the following inactive ingredients : Tablet core - methylcellulose , crospovidone , and magnesium stearate ; Coating - hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , macrogol , titanium dioxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Deferiprone is a chelating agent that binds with ferric ions ( iron III ) to form neutral 3 : 1 ( deferiprone : iron ) complexes that are stable over a wide range of pH values .
Deferiprone has a lower binding affinity for other metals ( e . g . , copper , aluminum and zinc ) than for iron .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Deferiprone exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose 1 . 5 times the maximum approved recommended dosage , FERRIPROX does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The mean Cmax and AUC of deferiprone was 20 mcg / mL and 50 mcg ∙ h / mL , respectively , in healthy subjects .
The dose proportionality of deferiprone over the approved recommended dosage range is unknown .
Absorption Deferiprone appeared in the blood within 5 to 10 minutes after oral administration .
Peak serum concentration of deferiprone was reached approximately 1 to 2 hours after a single dose .
Effect of Food No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of deferiprone were observed following administration with food .
Elimination The elimination half - life of deferiprone is approximately 2 hours .
Metabolism Deferiprone is metabolized primarily by UGT1A6 .
The major metabolite of deferiprone is the 3 - O - glucuronide , which lacks iron binding capability .
Excretion Following oral administration , 75 % to 90 % of the administered dose was recovered in urine ( primarily as metabolite ) in the first 24 hours .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of deferiprone were observed based on sex , race / ethnicity , body weight , mild to severe ( eGFR 15 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment , or mild ( Child Pugh Class A ) to moderate ( Child Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment .
The effect of age , including geriatric or pediatric populations , end stage renal disease , or severe ( Child Pugh Class C ) hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of deferiprone is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Studies UGT1A6 Inhibitors : Co - administration of deferiprone with phenylbutazone ( UGT1A6 inhibitor ) decreased glucuronidation of deferiprone by up to 78 % .
Polyvalent Cations : Deferiprone has the potential to bind polyvalent cations ( e . g . , iron , aluminum , and zinc ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with deferiprone .
However , in view of the genotoxicity results , and the findings of mammary gland hyperplasia and mammary gland tumors in rats treated with deferiprone in the 52 - week toxicology study , tumor formation in carcinogenicity studies must be regarded as likely .
Deferiprone was positive in a mouse lymphoma cell assay in vitro .
Deferiprone was clastogenic in an in vitro chromosomal aberration test in mice and in a chromosomal aberration test in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells .
Deferiprone given orally or intraperitoneally was clastogenic in a bone marrow micronucleus assay in non - iron - loaded mice .
A micronucleus test was also positive when mice predosed with iron dextran were treated with deferiprone .
Deferiprone was not mutagenic in the Ames bacterial reverse mutation test .
A fertility and early embryonic development study of deferiprone was conducted in rats .
Sperm counts , motility and morphology were unaffected by treatment with deferiprone .
There were no effects observed on male or female fertility or reproductive function at the highest dose which was 25 % of the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Transfusional Iron Overload In a prospective , planned , pooled analysis of patients from several studies , the efficacy of FERRIPROX was assessed in transfusion - dependent iron overload patients in whom previous iron chelation therapy had failed or was considered inadequate due to poor tolerance .
The main criterion for chelation failure was serum ferritin > 2 , 500 mcg / L before treatment with FERRIPROX .
FERRIPROX therapy ( 35 - 99 mg / kg / day ) was considered successful in individual patients who experienced a ≥ 20 % decline in serum ferritin within one year of starting therapy .
Data from a total of 236 patients were analyzed .
Of the 224 patients with thalassemia who received deferiprone monotherapy and were eligible for serum ferritin analysis , 105 ( 47 % ) were male and 119 ( 53 % ) were female .
The mean age of these patients was 18 . 2 years .
For the patients in the analysis , the endpoint of at least a 20 % reduction in serum ferritin was met in 50 % ( of 236 subjects ) , with a 95 % confidence interval of 43 % to 57 % .
A small number of patients with thalassemia and iron overload were assessed by measuring the change in the number of milliseconds ( ms ) in the cardiac MRI T2 * value before and after treatment with deferiprone for one year .
There was an increase in cardiac MRI T2 * from a mean at baseline of 11 . 8 ± 4 . 9 ms to a mean of 15 . 1 ± 7 . 0 ms after approximately one year of treatment .
The clinical significance of this observation is not known .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FERRIPROX ® ( deferiprone ) tablets are white to off - white , capsule - shaped tablets , film - coated , and have a functional score imprinted with “ APO ” score “ 1000 ” on one side and are plain on the other .
They are provided in HDPE bottles .
1 , 000 mg film - coated tablets , 50 tablets NDC 52609 - 0007 - 5 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) • Instruct patients and their caregivers to store FERRIPROX in the originally supplied bottle , closed tightly to protect from moisture .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Instruct patients and their caregivers to store FERRIPROX out of the reach and sight of children .
• Inform patients of the risks of developing agranulocytosis and instruct them to immediately interrupt therapy and report to their physician if they experience any symptoms of infection such as fever , sore throat or flu - like symptoms .
• Inform patients that their blood will be checked to monitor liver function and zinc levels .
A zinc supplement may be prescribed if zinc levels are low .
• Advise patients to take the first dose of FERRIPROX in the morning , the second dose at midday , and the third dose in the evening .
Clinical experience suggests that taking FERRIPROX with meals may reduce nausea .
If a dose of this medicine has been missed , take it as soon as possible .
However , if it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to the regular dosing schedule .
Do not catch - up or double doses .
• Advise patients to contact their physician in the event of overdose .
• Inform patients that their urine might show a reddish / brown discoloration due to the excretion of iron .
This is a very common sign of the desired effect of FERRIPROX , and it is not harmful .
Embryo - Fetal toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least six months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least three months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by ApoPharma USA , Inc . , Weston , FL , United States of America , 33326 .
Manufactured by Apotex Inc . , Toronto , Ontario , Canada , M9L 1T9 .
MEDICATION GUIDE FERRIPROX ® ( Feh ’ ri prox ) ( deferiprone ) tablets What is the most important information I should know about FERRIPROX ?
FERRIPROX can cause serious side effects , including a very low white blood cell count .
One type of white blood cell that is important for fighting infections is called a neutrophil .
If your neutrophil count is low ( neutropenia ) , you may be at risk of developing a serious infection that can lead to death .
Neutropenia is common with FERRIPROX and can become severe in some people .
Severe neutropenia is known as agranulocytosis .
If you develop agranulocytosis , you will be at risk of developing serious infections that can lead to death .
Your healthcare provider should do a blood test before you start FERRIPROX and weekly during treatment to check your neutrophil count .
If you develop neutropenia , your healthcare provider should check your blood counts every day until your white blood cell count improves .
Your healthcare provider may temporarily stop treatment with FERRIPROX if you develop neutropenia or infection .
Stop taking FERRIPROX and get medical help right away if you develop any of these symptoms of infection : • fever • sore throat or mouth sores • flu - like symptoms • chills and severe shaking .
See “ What are the possible side effects of FERRIPROX ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is FERRIPROX ?
FERRIPROX is a prescription medicine used to treat people with thalassemia syndromes who have iron overload from blood transfusions , when current iron removal ( chelation ) therapy does not work well enough .
It is not known if FERRIPROX is safe and effective : • to treat iron overload due to blood transfusions in people with any other type of anemia that is long lasting ( chronic ) • in children Do not take FERRIPROX if you are allergic to deferiprone or any of the ingredients in FERRIPROX .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in FERRIPROX .
Before you take FERRIPROX , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
FERRIPROX can harm your unborn baby .
You should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with FERRIPROX .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant during treatment with FERRIPROX . Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with FERRIPROX .
• You should use effective birth control during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least 6 months after the last dose .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant : • You should use effective birth control during treatment with FERRIPROX and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if FERRIPROX passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with FERRIPROX and for 2 weeks after the last dose .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
How should I take FERRIPROX ?
• Take FERRIPROX exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe FERRIPROX based on your body weight .
• Your healthcare provider will check your body iron level during treatment with FERRIPROX and may change your dose if needed .
Your healthcare provider may also change your dose of FERRIPROX if you have certain side effects .
Do not change your dose of FERRIPROX unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Take FERRIPROX 3 times each day .
Take your first dose in the morning , the second dose at mid - day , and the third dose in the evening .
• Taking FERRIPROX with meals may help reduce nausea .
• If you must take a medicine to treat indigestion ( antacid ) , or mineral supplements that contain iron , aluminum , or zinc during treatment with FERRIPROX , allow at least 4 hours between taking FERRIPROX and these products .
• If you take too much FERRIPROX , call your healthcare provider .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and then continue with your regular schedule .
Do not try to catch - up or take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
What are the possible side effects of FERRIPROX ?
FERRIPROX can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about FERRIPROX ? ”
• Increased liver enzyme levels in your blood .
Your healthcare provider should do monthly blood tests to check your liver function during treatment with FERRIPROX .
• Decreased levels of zinc in your blood .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your zinc levels during treatment with FERRIPROX and may prescribe a zinc supplement for you if your zinc levels are low .
The most common side effects of FERRIPROX include : • nausea • vomiting • stomach - area ( abdominal ) pain • joint pain FERRIPROX may cause a change in urine color to reddish - brown .
This is not harmful and is expected during treatment with FERRIPROX .
These are not all the possible side effects of FERRIPROX .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 ‑ 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store FERRIPROX ?
• Store FERRIPROX tablets at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store FERRIPROX tablets in the original bottle and tightly closed to protect from moisture .
Keep FERRIPROX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of FERRIPROX .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use FERRIPROX for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give FERRIPROX to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about FERRIPROX that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in FERRIPROX ?
Active ingredient : deferiprone Inactive ingredients : Tablet core : methylcellulose , crospovidone , and magnesium stearate .
Coating : hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , macrogol , and titanium dioxide .
Distributed by : ApoPharma USA , Inc . , Weston , FL , United States of America , 33326 .
Manufactured by : Apotex Inc . , Toronto , Ontario , Canada , M9L 1T9 .
For more information , call 1 - 866 - 949 - 0995 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 03 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION ApoPharma USA , Inc .
NDC 52609 - 0007 - 5 Ferriprox tablets 1 , 000 mg Rx only 50 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
