Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide , USP and 50 mg of Sulfur in a base containing BHT , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Ethylparaben , Fragrance , Glyceryl Monostearate SE , Methylparaben , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Thiosulfate and Xanthan Gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium Sulfacetamide exhibits antibacterial activity .
It is believed to block bacterial growth by acting as a competitive antagonist of para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined for sodium sulfacetamide , it is estimated that 1 % of topically applied sulfur is absorbed .
Although the exact mode of the keralytic activity of sulfur is unknown , it is reported to result from the interaction of sulfur with the cysteine content of keratinocytes .
In combination with sulfacetamide , sulfur has been reported to inhibit P . acnes , thereby reducing the associated inflammation .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation . Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetaminde may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS : General - If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream .
It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Cleanse skin thoroughly before application .
Apply a thin layer to affected areas 1 - 3 times daily or as directed by a physician .
To minimize potential dryness , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 - 3 times daily as needed or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream is available in 2 oz ( 57 g ) tubes , NDC 42192 - 149 - 02 and SSS 10 % - 5 % ( Sodium Sulfacetamide - Sulfur ) Emollient Cream in 1 oz ( 28 g ) tubes , NDC 42192 - 139 - 01 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 • 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0514 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g carton label NDC 42192 - 139 - 01 SSS 10 % - 5 % ( Sodium Sulfacetamide - Sulfur ) Emollient Cream Rx Only 1 oz ( 28 g ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g carton label 42192 - 149 - 02 Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Sulfur 5 % Emollient Cream Net wt .
2 oz ( 57 g ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
