1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMULIN N is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
HUMULIN ® N is an intermediate - acting human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Only administer subcutaneously ( in abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks ) .
( 2 . 2 ) • Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 2 ) • Individualize and adjust dosage based on metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for dosage adjustments due to drug interactions and patients with renal and hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • May use with a meal - time insulin if indicated .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Inspect HUMULIN N visually before use .
It should not contain particulate matter and should appear uniformly cloudy after mixing .
Do not use HUMULIN N if particulate matter is seen .
Use HUMULIN N KwikPen with caution in patients with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose .
2 . 2 Route of Administration HUMULIN N should only be administered subcutaneously .
Administer in the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks .
Rotate injection sites within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The HUMULIN N KwikPen dials in 1 unit increments .
Do not administer HUMULIN N intravenously and do not use HUMULIN N in an insulin infusion pump .
2 . 3 Dosage Information Individualize and adjust the dosage of HUMULIN N based on the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment due to Drug Interactions Dosage adjustment may be needed when HUMULIN N is coadministered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosage adjustment may be needed when changing from another insulin to HUMULIN N [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Instructions for Mixing with Other Insulins HUMULIN N may be used with a prandial insulin if indicated .
HUMULIN N may be mixed with HUMULIN R or HUMALOG before injection .
• If HUMULIN N is mixed with HUMULIN R , HUMULIN R should be drawn into the syringe first .
Injection should occur immediately after mixing .
• If HUMULIN N is mixed with HUMALOG , HUMALOG should be drawn into the syringe first .
Injection should occur immediately after mixing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injectable suspension : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) white and cloudy suspension available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN N KwikPen prefilled pen Injectable suspension : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) • 3 mL multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) • 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN ® N KwikPen ® prefilled pen ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMULIN N is contraindicated : • During episodes of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , and • In patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMULIN N or any of its excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• During episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • In patients with hypersensitivity to HUMULIN N or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share a HUMULIN N KwikPen or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor blood glucose and increase monitoring frequency with changes to insulin dosage , use of glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; and in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 , 7 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : May be life - threatening .
Discontinue HUMULIN N , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Never Share a HUMULIN N KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients HUMULIN N KwikPens must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMULIN N vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , dosage adjustments of concomitant antidiabetic products may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including HUMULIN N . Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place the patient and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each patient and change over time in the same patient .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic neuropathy , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulins , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMULIN N may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between insulin products have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between HUMULIN N and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulins , including HUMULIN N .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMULIN N ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
HUMULIN N is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMULIN N or any of its excipients .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulins , including HUMULIN N , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMULIN N , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of HUMULIN N . Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions observed with HUMULIN N include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , pruritus , rash , weight gain , and edema .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Allergic Reactions Some patients taking HUMULIN N have experienced erythema , local edema , and pruritus at the site of injection .
These conditions were usually self - limiting .
Severe cases of generalized allergy ( anaphylaxis ) have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Peripheral Edema Some patients taking HUMULIN N have experienced sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Lipodystrophy Administration of insulin subcutaneously , including HUMULIN N , has resulted in lipoatrophy ( depression in the skin ) or lipohypertrophy ( enlargement or thickening of tissue ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] in some patients .
Localized Cutaneous Amyloidosis Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
Weight gain Weight gain has occurred with insulins , including HUMULIN N , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glycosuria .
Immunogenicity Development of antibodies that react with human insulin have been observed with all insulins , including HUMULIN N . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with HUMULIN N Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN N is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN N Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN N is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN N Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN N is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN N is co - administered with these drugs .
• Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 ) • Antiadrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not performed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 % .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from retrospective studies , open - label , randomized , parallel studies and meta - analyses over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
All available studies have methodological limitations , including lack of blinding , unclear methods or randomization , and small sample size .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available data from published literature suggests that exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN N , are transferred into human milk .
There are no adverse reactions reported in breastfed infants in the literature .
There are no data on the effects of exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN N on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for HUMULIN N and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMULIN N or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use HUMULIN N is indicated to improve glycemic control in pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN N has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with advanced age using any insulin , including HUMULIN N , may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia due to co - morbid disease and polypharmacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN N has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN N dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN N has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMULIN N dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or physical activity level may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with a glucagon product for emergency use or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION Insulin isophane human is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli .
Insulin isophane human is a suspension of crystals produced from combining human insulin and protamine sulfate under appropriate conditions for crystal formation .
The amino acid sequence of insulin isophane human is identical to human insulin and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 with a molecular weight of 5 . 808 kDa .
HUMULIN N ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension is an intermediate acting human insulin .
It is a sterile , white and cloudy suspension that contains insulin isophane human suspension ( NPH ) for subcutaneous use .
Each milliliter of HUMULIN N contains 100 units of insulin human , dibasic sodium phosphate ( 3 . 78 mg ) , glycerin ( 16 mg ) , metacresol ( 1 . 6 mg ) , phenol ( 0 . 65 mg ) , protamine sulfate ( 0 . 35 mg ) , zinc oxide content adjusted to provide zinc ion ( approximately 0 . 025 mg for the vials or approximately 0 . 035 mg for the KwikPen ) , and Water for Injection .
The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 5 .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action HUMULIN N lowers blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics HUMULIN N is an intermediate - acting insulin with a slower onset of action and a longer duration of activity than that of regular human insulin .
In a study in which healthy subjects ( n = 16 ) received subcutaneous injections of HUMULIN N ( 0 . 4 unit / kg ) on 4 occasions , the median maximum effect occurred at 6 . 5 hours ( range : 2 . 8 to 13 hours ) .
In this study , insulin activity was measured by the rate of glucose infusions .
The time course of action of insulin , such as HUMULIN N may vary in different individuals or within the same individual .
The parameters of HUMULIN N activity ( time of onset , peak time , and duration ) as designated in Figure 1 should be considered only as general guidelines .
The rate of insulin absorption and consequently the onset of activity is known to be affected by the site of injection , physical activity level , and other variables [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption — In healthy subjects given subcutaneous doses of HUMULIN N ( 0 . 4 unit / kg ) , median peak serum concentration of insulin occurred at approximately 4 hours ( range : 1 to 12 hours ) after dosing .
Metabolism — The uptake and degradation of insulin occurs predominantly in liver , kidney , muscle , and adipocytes , with the liver being the major organ involved in the clearance of insulin .
Elimination — Because of the absorption - rate limited kinetics of insulin mixtures , a true half - life cannot be accurately estimated from the terminal slope of the concentration versus time curve .
In healthy subjects given subcutaneous doses of HUMULIN N ( 0 . 4 unit / kg ) , the mean apparent half - life was approximately 4 . 4 hours ( range : 1 - 84 hours ) .
Specific Populations The effects of age , gender , race , obesity , pregnancy , or smoking on the pharmacokinetics of HUMULIN N have not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and fertility studies were not performed in animals .
Biosynthetic human insulin was not genotoxic in the in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay and the in vitro gradient plate and unscheduled DNA synthesis assays .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied HUMULIN N ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension , 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) , is a white and cloudy suspension available as : 10 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 8315 - 01 ( HI - 310 ) 3 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 8315 - 17 ( HI - 313 ) 5 x 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN N KwikPen NDC 0002 - 8805 - 59 ( HP - 8805 ) Each prefilled HUMULIN N KwikPen is for use by a single patient .
HUMULIN N KwikPens must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMULIN N vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
The HUMULIN N KwikPen dials in 1 unit increments .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use .
Protect from heat and light .
Do not freeze .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
See Table 2 below for storage conditions .
Table 2 : Storage Conditions for HUMULIN N Vials and Pens a When stored at room temperature , HUMULIN N vial can only be used for a total of 31 days including both not in - use ( unopened ) and in - use ( opened ) storage time .
b When stored at room temperature , HUMULIN N KwikPen can only be used for a total of 14 days including both not in - use ( unopened ) and in - use ( opened ) storage time .
Not In - use ( Unopened ) In - use ( Opened ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) 10 mL multiple - dose viala 3 mL multiple - dose viala 31 days Until expiration date 31 days 31 days 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN N KwikPenb 14 days Until expiration date 14 days Do not refrigerate .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share a HUMULIN N KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients Advise patients that they must never share a HUMULIN N KwikPen with another person , even if the needle is changed .
Advise patients using HUMULIN N vials not to share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia especially at initiation of HUMULIN N therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients that accidental mix - ups between insulin products have been reported .
Instruct patients to always carefully check that they are administering the correct insulin ( e . g . , by checking the insulin label before each injection ) to avoid medication errors between HUMULIN N and other insulins .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with HUMULIN N . Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
____________ HUMULIN ® and HUMULIN ® N KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Literature revised June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1997 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINN - 0006 - USPI - 20220627 PATIENT INFORMATION HUMULIN ® ( HU - mu - lin ) N ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension , for subcutaneous use Do not share your HUMULIN N KwikPen or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is HUMULIN N ?
• HUMULIN N is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use HUMULIN N ?
Do not use HUMULIN N if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to HUMULIN N or any of the ingredients in HUMULIN N . Before using HUMULIN N , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including , if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take any other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMULIN N . • are pregnant , planning to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breastfeed .
HUMULIN N may pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using HUMULIN N . • are taking new prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Before you start using HUMULIN N , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use HUMULIN N ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that come with your HUMULIN N . • Use HUMULIN N exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
HUMULIN N is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Know the type and strength of insulin you use .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you use different types of insulin .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
• Do not share your HUMULIN N KwikPen or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Your HUMULIN N dose may need to change because of : • change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet .
What should I avoid while using HUMULIN N ?
While using HUMULIN N do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how HUMULIN N affects you .
• drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of HUMULIN N ?
HUMULIN N may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms that may indicate low blood sugar include : • dizziness or light - headedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability , or mood changes , hunger .
• serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body , trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with HUMULIN N may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMULIN N . Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with HUMULIN N . Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain .
Treatment with TZDs and HUMULIN N may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of HUMULIN N include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions including reactions at the injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , itching , rash , weight gain , and swelling of your hands and feet .
These are not all the possible side effects of HUMULIN N . Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMULIN N : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HUMULIN N that is written for health professionals .
Do not use HUMULIN N for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HUMULIN N to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
What are the ingredients in HUMULIN N ?
Active Ingredient : insulin human Inactive Ingredients : dibasic sodium phosphate , glycerin , metacresol , phenol , protamine sulfate , zinc oxide , and Water for Injection as inactive ingredients .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust the pH . For more information , call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 or go to www . humulin . com .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Patient Information revised June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1997 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINN - 0005 - PPI - 20220627 Instructions for Use HUMULIN ® ( HU - mu - lin ) N ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension , for subcutaneous use 3 mL or 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 100 units / mL ) Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN N and each time you get a new HUMULIN N vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection : • a 3 mL or 10 mL multiple - dose HUMULIN N vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ Disposing of used needles and syringes ” at the end of these instructions .
Vial Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing your HUMULIN N dose : • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the HUMULIN N label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use HUMULIN N past the expiration date printed on the label or 31 days after you first use it .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection to help ensure sterility and prevent blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : Gently roll the vial between the palms of your hands at least 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Carefully invert the vial at least 10 times .
Mixing is important to make sure you get the right dose .
Humulin N should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use it if it looks clear or contains any lumps or particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : If you are using a new vial , pull off the plastic Protective Cap , but do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger until the tip of the Plunger reaches the line for the number of units for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 6 : Push the needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Push the plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the Plunger down until the tip is a few units past the line for your prescribed dose .
If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently a few times to let any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units Plunger is shown at 24 units ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the tip reaches the line for your prescribed dose .
Check the syringe to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 10 : Pull the syringe out of the vial ' s Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving your HUMULIN N injection : • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Step 11 : Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN N is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
The needle should stay in your skin for at least 5 seconds to make sure you have injected all of your insulin dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : Pull the needle out of your skin .
• If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of used needles and syringes : • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store HUMULIN N ?
All unopened HUMULIN N vials : • Store all unopened vials in the refrigerator .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 31 days , if they are stored at room temperature .
After HUMULIN N vials have been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 31 days .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Throw away all opened vials after 31 days of use , even if there is still insulin left in the vial .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMULIN N . • Keep HUMULIN N vials , syringes , needles , and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection .
• Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN and insulin , go to www . humulin . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch the humulin . com website This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humulin ® is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Instructions for Use revised : June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1992 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINNVL - 0005 - IFU - 20220627 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMULIN ® N KwikPen ® ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension , for subcutaneous use 3 mL single - patient - use pen ( 100 units / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN N and each time you get another KwikPen .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMULIN N KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMULIN ® N KwikPen ® ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMULIN N .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 1 unit of insulin .
You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMULIN N KwikPen • Pen color : Beige • Dose Knob : Light green • Labels : White label with light green stripe Supplies you will need to give your injection • HUMULIN N KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 14 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• - Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
• - Do not attach the Needle before mixing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Gently roll the Pen between your hands 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : • Move the Pen up and down ( invert ) 10 times .
Mixing by rolling and inverting the Pen is important to make sure you get the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMULIN N should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use if it looks clear or has any lumps or particles in it .
Step 5 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 8 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
• You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 8 to 10 , no more than 4 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 8 to 10 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 11 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks . You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 12 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN N is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
• Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 15 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 16 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 17 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMULIN N Pen you are using after 14 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN N KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN N KwikPen and insulin , go to www . lilly . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humulin . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMULIN ® and HUMULIN ® KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 2013 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMULIN N KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LINNKP - 0008 - IFU - 20220627 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON – HUMULIN N Vial 10 mL 1 ct NDC 0002 - 8315 - 01 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) Humulin ® N NPH ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension 10 mL multiple - dose vial Use only with a U - 100 syringe For subcutaneous use only .
U - 100 www . lilly . com Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – Humulin N KwikPen 3 mL 5 ct 5x3 mL prefilled pens NDC 0002 - 8805 - 59 HP - 8805 Humulin ® N KwikPen ® NPH ( insulin isophane human ) injectable suspension For Single Patient Use Only Dispense in this sealed carton Read Insulin Delivery Device Instructions for Use For subcutaneous use only .
prefilled insulin delivery device 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) Needles not included This device is suitable for use with Becton , Dickinson and Company ' s insulin pen needles .
Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON – STERILE DILUENT Vial 10 mL 1 ct 1 – ND 800 Lilly 10 mL STERILE DILUENT FOR HUMALOG ® U - 100 insulin lispro injection HUMULIN ® R U - 100 REGULAR insulin human injection Insulin Lispro Injection U - 100 WARNING : Use ONLY with insulins listed on side panel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
