0 . 9 % DESCRIPTION : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution .
The osmolarity is 300 mOsmol per liter ( calculated ) .
Each mL contains : Sodium chloride 9 mg ; Water for Injection q . s .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is supplied only in single dose containers .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium chloride occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water .
It is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl — ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl — ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , when used only as a vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % preparations are indicated for diluting or dissolving drugs for intramuscular , intravenous or subcutaneous injection according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use in flushing of intravenous catheters .
WARNINGS : For use in newborns , when a sodium chloride solution is required for preparation or diluting medications or in flushing intravenous catheters , only preservative free Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be used .
PRECAUTIONS : General Consult the manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C — Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures and , if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
OVERDOSAGE : When used as a diluent , solvent or intravascular flushing solution , this parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See PRECAUTIONSand ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Before Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use in flushing intravenous catheters .
Prior to and after administration of the medication , the intravenous catheter should be flushed in its entirety with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
Use in accord with any warnings or precautions appropriate to the medication being administered .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , preservative free , is available as follows : NDC # Strength Available over bagged with 5 x 10 mL Single Dose Vials in a bag 55154 - 9357 - 5 0 . 9 % ( 90 mg per 10 mL ) ( 9 mg per mL ) Preservative Free .
Discard unused portion .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 45764 E Distributed by : Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 L33756071022 Revised : October 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % 5 x 10 mL Single Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
