1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carisoprodol is indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults .
Limitation of Use Carisoprodol should only be used for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use has not been established and because acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions are generally of short duration .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Carisoprodol is a muscle relaxant indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of carisoprodol is 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime .
The recommended maximum duration of carisoprodol use is up to two or three weeks .
• • Recommended dose is 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 350 mg Tablets : round , convex , white tablets , inscribed with 111 on one side and “ O ” on the other side .
Tablets : 350 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carisoprodol is contraindicated in patients with a history of acute intermittent porphyria or a hypersensitivity reaction to a carbamate such as meprobamate .
• • Acute intermittent porphyria ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity reactions to a carbamate such as meprobamate ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Due to sedative properties , may impair ability to perform hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery ( 5 . 1 ) • • Additive sedative effects when used with other CNS depressants including alcohol ( 5 . 1 ) • • Cases of abuse , dependence and withdrawal ( 5 . 2 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • • Seizures ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Sedation Carisoprodol has sedative properties ( in the low back pain trials , 13 % to 17 % of patients who received carisoprodol experienced sedation compared to 6 % of patients who received placebo ) [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 1 ) ] and may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
There have been post - marketing reports of motor vehicle accidents associated with the use of carisoprodol .
Since the sedative effects of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) may be additive , appropriate caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously .
5 . 2 Abuse , Dependence , and Withdrawal Carisoprodol , the active ingredient , has been subject to abuse , dependence , and withdrawal , misuse and criminal diversion .
[ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
Abuse of carisoprodol poses a risk of overdosage which may lead to death , CNS and respiratory depression , hypotension , seizures and other disorders [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Post - marketing experience cases of carisoprodol abuse and dependence have been reported in patients with prolonged use and a history of drug abuse .
Although most of these patients took other drugs of abuse , some patients solely abused carisoprodol .
Withdrawal symptoms have been reported following abrupt cessation of carisoprodol after prolonged use .
Reported withdrawal symptoms included insomnia , vomiting , abdominal cramps , headache , tremors , muscle twitching , ataxia , hallucinations , and psychosis .
One of carisoprodol ’ s metabolites , meprobamate ( a controlled substance ) , may also cause dependence [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
To reduce the risk of carisoprodol abuse assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , limit the length of treatment to three weeks for the relief of acute musculoskeletal discomfort , keep careful prescription records , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal .
5 . 3 Seizures There have been post - marketing reports of seizures in patients who received carisoprodol .
Most of these cases have occurred in the setting of multiple drug overdoses ( including drugs of abuse , illegal drugs , and alcohol ) [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % ) are drowsiness , dizziness , and headache ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oxford Pharmaceuticals LLC at 1 - 844 508 1455 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice .
The data described below are based on 1387 patients pooled from two double blind , randomized , multicenter , placebo controlled , one - week trials in adult patients with acute , mechanical , lower back pain [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In these studies , patients were treated with 250 mg of carisoprodol , 350 mg of carisoprodol , or placebo three times a day and at bedtime for seven days .
The mean age was about 41 years old with 54 % females and 46 % males and 74 % Caucasian , 16 % Black , 9 % Asian , and 2 % other .
There were no deaths and there were no serious adverse reactions in these two trials .
In these two studies , 2 . 7 % , 2 % , and 5 . 4 % , of patients treated with placebo , 250 mg of carisoprodol , and 350 mg of carisoprodol , respectively , discontinued due to adverse events ; and 0 . 5 % , 0 . 5 % , and 1 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo , 250 mg of carisoprodol , and 350 mg of carisoprodol , respectively , discontinued due to central nervous system adverse reactions .
Table 1 displays adverse reactions reported with frequencies greater than 2 % and more frequently than placebo in patients treated with carisoprodol in the two trials described above .
Table 1 .
Patients with Adverse Reactions in Controlled StudiesAdverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 560 ) n ( % ) Carisoprodol 250 mg ( n = 548 ) n ( % ) Carisoprodol 350 mg ( n = 279 ) n ( % ) Drowsiness 31 ( 6 ) 73 ( 13 ) 47 ( 17 ) Dizziness 11 ( 2 ) 43 ( 8 ) 19 ( 7 ) Headache 11 ( 2 ) 26 ( 5 ) 9 ( 3 ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following events have been reported during postapproval use of carisoprodol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , postural hypotension , and facial flushing [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Central Nervous System : Drowsiness , dizziness , vertigo , ataxia , tremor , agitation , irritability , headache , depressive reactions , syncope , insomnia , and seizures [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , vomiting , and epigastric discomfort .
Hematologic : Leukopenia , pancytopenia 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) - additive sedative effects ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 CNS Depressants The sedative effects of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) may be additive .
Therefore , caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously .
Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate , a metabolite of carisoprodol , is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2C19 Inhibitors and Inducers Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Co - administration of CYP2C19 inhibitors , such as omeprazole or fluvoxamine , with carisoprodol could result in increased exposure of carisoprodol and decreased exposure of meprobamate .
Co - administration of CYP2C19 inducers , such as rifampin or St . John ’ s Wort , with carisoprodol could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate .
Low dose aspirin also showed an induction effect on CYP2C19 .
The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Data over many decades of carisoprodol use in pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Data on meprobamate , the primary metabolite of carisoprodol , also do not show a consistent association between maternal use of meprobamate and an increased risk of major birth defects ( see Data ) .
In a published animal reproduction study , pregnant mice administered carisoprodol orally at 2 . 6 ‑ and 4 . 1 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( [ MRHD ] of 1400 mg per day [ 350 mg QID ] based on body surface area [ BSA ] comparison ) from gestation through weaning resulted in reduced fetal weights , postnatal weight gain , and postnatal survival ( see Data ) ..
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Retrospective case - control and cohort studies of meprobamate use during the first trimester of pregnancy have not consistently identified an increased risk or pattern of major birth defects .
For children exposed to meprobamate in - utero , one study found no adverse effect on mental or motor development or IQ scores .
Animal Data Embryofetal development studies in animals have not been completed .
In a published pre - and post - natal development animal study , pregnant mice administered carisoprodol orally at 300 , 750 , or 1200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 - , 2 . 6 - , and 4 . 1 - times the MRHD based on BSA comparison ) from 7 - days prior to gestation through birth and from lactation through weaning resulted in reduced fetal weights , postnatal weight gain , and postnatal survival at 2 . 6 - and 4 . 1 - times the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Data from published literature report that carisoprodol and its metabolite , meprobamate , are present in breastmilk .
There are no data on the effect of carisoprodol on milk production .
There is one report of sedation in an infant who was breastfed by a mother taking carisoprodol ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Because there have been no consistent reports of adverse events in breastfed infants over decades of use , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for carisoprodol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from carisoprodol or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to carisoprodol through breast milk should be monitored for sedation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The efficacy , safety , and pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in pediatric patients less than 16 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The efficacy , safety , and pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in patients over 65 years old have not been established .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The safety and pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in patients with renal impairment have not been evaluated .
Since carisoprodol is excreted by the kidney , caution should be exercised if carisoprodol is administered to patients with impaired renal function .
Carisoprodol is dialyzable by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The safety and pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in patients with hepatic impairment have not been evaluated .
Since carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver , caution should be exercised if carisoprodol is administered to patients with impaired hepatic function .
8 . 8 Patients with Reduced CYP2C19 Activity Patients with reduced CYP2C19 activity have higher exposure to carisoprodol .
Therefore , caution should be exercised in administration of carisoprodol to these patients .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Carisoprodol is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Carisoprodol has been subject to abuse , misuse , and criminal diversion for nontherapeutic use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse of carisoprodol poses a risk of overdosage which may lead to death , CNS and respiratory depression , hypotension , seizures and other disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Patients at high risk of carisoprodol abuse may include those with prolonged use of carisoprodol , with a history of drug abuse , or those who use carisoprodol in combination with other abused drugs .
Prescription drug abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , for its rewarding psychological effects .
Drug addiction , which develops after repeated drug abuse , is characterized by a strong desire to take a drug despite harmful consequences , difficulty in controlling its use , giving a higher priority to drug use than to obligations , increased tolerance , and sometimes physical withdrawal .
Drug abuse and drug addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance ( for example , abuse or addiction may not be accompanied by tolerance or physical dependence ) [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance is when a patient ’ s reaction to a specific dosage and concentration is progressively reduced in the absence of disease progression , requiring an increase in the dosage to maintain the same .
Physical dependence is characterized by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug .
Both tolerance and physical dependence have been reported with the prolonged use of carisoprodol .
Reported withdrawal symptoms with carisoprodol include insomnia , vomiting , abdominal cramps , headache , tremors , muscle twitching , anxiety , ataxia , hallucinations , and psychosis .
Instruct patients taking large doses of carisoprodol or those taking the drug for a prolonged time to not abruptly stop carisoprodol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Overdosage of carisoprodol commonly produces CNS depression .
Death , coma , respiratory depression , hypotension , seizures , delirium , hallucinations , dystonic reactions , nystagmus , blurred vision , mydriasis , euphoria , muscular incoordination , rigidity , and / or headache have been reported with carisoprodol overdosage .
Serotonin syndrome has been reported with carisoprodol intoxication .
Many of the carisoprodol overdoses have occurred in the setting of multiple drug overdoses ( including drugs of abuse , illegal drugs , and alcohol ) .
The effects of an overdose of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) can be additive even when one of the drugs has been taken in the recommended dosage .
Fatal accidental and non - accidental overdoses of carisoprodol have been reported alone or in combination with CNS depressants .
Treatment of Overdosage Basic life support measures should be instituted as dictated by the clinical presentation of the carisoprodol overdose .
Vomiting should not be induced because of the risk of CNS and respiratory depression , and subsequent aspiration .
Circulatory support should be administered with volume infusion and vasopressor agents if needed .
Seizures should be treated with intravenous benzodiazepines and the reoccurrence of seizures may be treated with phenobarbital .
In cases of severe CNS depression , airway protective reflexes may be compromised and tracheal intubation should be considered for airway protection and respiratory support .
For decontamination in cases of severe toxicity , activated charcoal should be considered in a hospital setting in patients with large overdoses who present early and are not demonstrating CNS depression and can protect their airway .
For more information on the management of an overdose of carisoprodol , contact a Poison Control Center .
11 DESCRIPTION Carisoprodol tablets are available as 350 mg round , white tablets .
Carisoprodol is a white , crystalline powder , having a mild , characteristic odor and a bitter taste .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in alcohol , in chloroform , and in acetone ; and its solubility is practically independent of pH . Carisoprodol is present as a racemic mixture .
Chemically , carisoprodol is ( ± ) - 2 - Methyl - 2 - propyl - 1 , 3 - propanediol carbamate isopropylcarbamate and the molecular formula is C12H24N2O4 , with a molecular weight of 260 . 33 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other ingredients in the carisoprodol drug product include hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of carisoprodol in relieving discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions has not been clearly identified .
In animal studies , muscle relaxation induced by carisoprodol is associated with altered interneuronal activity in the spinal cord and in the descending reticular formation of the brain .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Carisoprodol is a centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant that does not directly relax skeletal muscles .
A metabolite of carisoprodol , meprobamate , has anxiolytic and sedative properties .
The degree to which these properties of meprobamate contribute to the safety and efficacy of carisoprodol is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol and its metabolite meprobamate were studied in a crossover study of 24 healthy subjects ( 12 male and 12 female ) who received single doses of 250 mg and 350 mg carisoprodol ( see Table 2 ) .
The exposure of carisoprodol and meprobamate was dose proportional between the 250 mg and 350 mg doses .
The Cmax of meprobamate was 2 . 5 ± 0 . 5 μg / mL ( mean ± SD ) after administration of a single 350 mg dose of carisoprodol , which is approximately 30 % of the Cmax of meprobamate ( approximately 8 μg / mL ) after administration of a single 400 mg dose of meprobamate .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Carisoprodol and Meprobamate ( Mean Â ± SD , n = 24 ) 250 mg Carisoprodol 350 mg Carisoprodol Carisoprodol Cmax ( μg / mL ) 1 . 2 ± 0 . 5 1 . 8 ± 1 . 0 AUCinf ( μg * hr / mL ) 4 . 5 ± 3 . 1 7 . 0 ± 5 . 0 Tmax ( hr ) 1 . 5 ± 0 . 8 1 . 7 ± 0 . 8 T ½ ( hr ) 1 . 7 ± 0 . 5 2 . 0 ± 0 . 5 Meprobamate Cmax ( μg / mL ) 1 . 8 ± 0 . 3 2 . 5 ± 0 . 5 AUCinf ( μg * hr / mL ) 32 ± 6 . 2 46 ± 9 . 0 Tmax ( hr ) 3 . 6 ± 1 . 7 4 . 5 ± 1 . 9 T ½ ( hr ) 9 . 7 ± 1 . 7 9 . 6 ± 1 . 5 Absolute bioavailability of carisoprodol has not been determined .
The mean time to peak plasma concentrations ( Tmax ) of carisoprodol was approximately 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Food Effect : Co - administration of a high - fat meal with carisoprodol ( 350 mg tablet ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol .
Therefore , carisoprodol may be administered with or without food .
Elimination Metabolism : The major pathway of carisoprodol metabolism is via the liver by cytochrome enzyme CYP2C19 to form meprobamate .
This enzyme exhibits genetic polymorphism ( see Patients with Reduced CYP2C19 Activity below ) .
Excretion : Carisoprodol is eliminated by both renal and non - renal routes with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 2 hours .
The half - life of meprobamate is approximately 10 hours .
Specific Populations Sex : Exposure of carisoprodol is higher in female than in male subjects ( approximately 30 - 50 % on a weight adjusted basis ) .
Overall exposure of meprobamate is comparable between female and male subjects .
Patients with Reduced CYP2C19 Activity : carisoprodol should be used with caution in patients with reduced CYP2C19 activity .
Published studies indicate that patients who are poor CYP2C19 metabolizers have a 4 - fold increase in exposure to carisoprodol , and concomitant 50 % reduced exposure to meprobamate compared to normal CYP2C19 metabolizers .
The prevalence of poor metabolizers in Caucasians and African Americans is approximately 3 - 5 % and in Asians is approximately 15 - 20 % .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of carisoprodol .
Mutagenesis Carisoprodol was not formally evaluated for genotoxicity .
In published studies , carisoprodol was mutagenic in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell assay in the absence of metabolizing enzymes , but was not mutagenic in the presence of metabolizing enzymes .
Carisoprodol was clastogenic in the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells with or without the presence of metabolizing enzymes .
Other types of genotoxic tests resulted in negative findings .
Carisoprodol was not mutagenic in the Ames reverse mutation assay using S . typhimurium strains with or without metabolizing enzymes , and was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay of circulating blood cells .
Impairment of Fertility Carisoprodol was not formally evaluated for effects on fertility .
A published reproductive study in which female mice received carisoprodol orally at doses of 300 , 750 , or 1200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 , 2 . 6 , and 4 . 1 times the MRHD of 1400 mg per day [ 350 mg QID ] based on body surface area [ BSA ] comparison ) from 1 - week prior to mating , to 27 - weeks post - mating found no alteration in fertility although an alteration in reproductive cycles characterized by a greater time spent in estrus was observed at a carisoprodol dose of 1200 mg / kg / day .
In a 13 ‑ week toxicology study that did not determine fertility , mouse testes weight and sperm motility were reduced at a dose of 1200 mg / kg / day ( maternal doses equivalent to 4 . 2 - times the MRHD based on BSA comparison ) .
In both studies , the no effect level was 750 mg / kg / day , corresponding to approximately 2 . 6 - times the MRHD based on a BSA comparison .
The significance of these findings for human fertility is not known .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of carisoprodol for the relief of acute , idiopathic mechanical low back pain was evaluated in two , 7 - day , double blind , randomized , multicenter , placebo controlled , U . S . trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) .
Patients had to be 18 to 65 years old and had to have acute back pain ( ≤ 3 days of duration ) to be included in the trials .
Patients with chronic back pain ; at increased risk for vertebral fracture ( e . g . , history of osteoporosis ) ; with a history of spinal pathology ( e . g . , herniated nucleus pulposus , spondylolisthesis or spinal stenosis ) ; with inflammatory back pain , or with evidence of a neurologic deficit were excluded from participation .
Concomitant use of analgesics ( e . g . , acetaminophen , NSAIDs , tramadol , opioid agonists ) , other muscle relaxants , botulinum toxin , sedatives ( e . g . , barbiturates , benzodiazepines , promethazine hydrochloride ) , and anti - epileptic drugs was prohibited .
In Study 1 , patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups ( i . e . , carisoprodol 250 mg , carisoprodol 350 mg , or placebo ) and in Study 2 patients were randomized to two treatment groups ( i . e . , carisoprodol 250 mg or placebo ) .
In both studies , patients received study medication three times a day and at bedtime for seven days .
The primary endpoints were the relief from starting backache and the global impression of change , as reported by patients , on Study Day 3 .
Both endpoints were scored on a 5 - point rating scale from 0 ( worst outcome ) to 4 ( best outcome ) in both studies .
The primary statistical comparison was between the carisoprodol 250 mg and placebo groups in both studies .
The proportion of patients who used concomitant acetaminophen , NSAIDs , tramadol , opioid agonists , other muscle relaxants , and benzodiazepines was similar in the treatment groups .
The results for the primary efficacy evaluations in the acute , low back pain studies are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Results of the Primary Efficacy Endpointsa in Studies 1 and 2 a The primary efficacy endpoints ( Relief from Starting Backache and Global Impression of Change ) were assessed by the patients on Study Day 3 .
These endpoints were scored on a 5 - point rating scale from 0 ( worst outcome ) to 4 ( best outcome ) .
b Mean is the least squared mean and SE is the standard error of the mean .
The ANOVA model was used for the primary statistical comparison between the Carisoprodol 250 mg and placebo groups .
Study Parameter Placebo Carisoprodol 250 mg Carisoprodol 350 mg Number of Patients n = 269 n = 264 n = 273 Relief from Starting Backache , Mean ( SE ) b 1 . 4 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 . 8 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 . 8 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 Difference between Carisoprodol and Placebo , Mean ( SE ) b ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 5 ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 ) Global Impression of Change , Mean ( SE ) b 1 . 9 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) Difference between Carisoprodol and Placebo , Mean ( SE ) b ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 2 ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 4 ) 0 . 3 ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 4 ) Number of Patients n = 278 n = 269 Relief from Starting Backache , Mean ( SE ) b 1 . 1 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 . 8 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 Difference between Carisoprodol and Placebo , Mean ( SE ) b ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 7 ( 0 . 5 , 0 . 9 ) Global Impression of Change , Mean ( SE ) b 1 . 7 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) Difference between Carisoprodol and Placebo , Mean ( SE ) b ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 5 ( 0 . 4 , 0 . 7 ) Patients treated with carisoprodol experienced improvement in function as measured by the Roland - Morris Disability Questionnaire ( RMDQ ) score on Days 3 and 7 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 350 mg Tablets : round , convex , white tablets , inscribed with 111 on one side and “ O ” on the other side ; available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 71205 - 704 - 30 ) , bottles of 60 ( NDC 71205 - 704 - 60 ) and bottles of 90 ( NDC 71205 - 704 - 90 ) .
Storage Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised to contact their physician if they experience any adverse reactions to carisoprodol .
Sedation Advise patients that carisoprodol may cause drowsiness and / or dizziness , and has been associated with motor vehicle accidents .
Patients should be advised to avoid taking carisoprodol before engaging in potentially hazardous activities such as driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Avoidance of Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants Advise patients to avoid alcoholic beverages while taking carisoprodol and to check with their doctor before taking other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants , sedating antihistamines , or other sedatives [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Carisoprodol Should Only Be Used for Short - Term Treatment Advise patients that treatment with carisoprodol should be limited to acute use ( up to two or three weeks ) for the relief of acute , musculoskeletal discomfort .
In the post - marketing experience with carisoprodol , cases of dependence , withdrawal , and abuse have been reported with prolonged use .
If the musculoskeletal symptoms still persist , patients should contact their healthcare provider for further evaluation .
Lactation Advise nursing mothers using carisoprodol to monitor neonates for signs of sedation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Oxford Pharmaceuticals , LLC Birmingham , AL 35211 8200005 09 / 2019 REV00 © 2019 Oxford Pharmaceuticals , LLC Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 71205 - 704 - 90 Carisoprodol TABLETS , USP 350 mg CIV Rx only 90 TABLETS EACH TABLET CONTAINS : Carisoprodol , USP ... … … ... 350 mg USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert for full prescribing information .
DISPENSE in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , using a child - resistant closure .
STORE at 20 ° to 24 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Keep container tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATOINS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Manufactured by : OXFORD PHARMACEUTICALS BIRMINGHAM , ALABAMA 35211 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 8000041 REV : 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
