Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 75 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses • hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire / flame For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor • if irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , glycerin , water Questions ?
+ 1 - 901 - 212 - 1386 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM SAFE FOR SKIN KILLS GERMS Helps in Reducing Bacteria Distributed by : ACOR FOODS - CSFTN LLC 1400 Veterans Memorial HWY SE Suite 134 # 374 Mableton , GA 30126 made in China www . san - e - pur . com ( 5 . 9 in x 7 . 8 in ) ( 15 cm x 20 cm ) Wipe Size PROTECT CARE San - E - Pur antiseptic wipes are safe for skin and are perfect for cleaning and reducing bacteria from hands .
Ideal for sanitizing and eliminating contaminates when soap and water is not available .
Our alcohol - based formula effectively reduces bacteria as well as serves as an antiseptic agent DIRECTIONS FOR USE Adults and children 2 years and over : Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds .
Allow to dry .
For occasional and personal domestic use .
Supervise children when they use this product .
RECOMMENDED USE • Antibacterial ( skin ) cleanser .
• Antiseptic ( skin ) cleanser .
• Effective in destroying ( harmful ) bacteria to provide antiseptic cleansing .
• For personal hand hygiene to help prevent the spread of bacteria .
• Kills harmful bacteria / germs .
Store in a cool and dry place , away from direct sunlight .
Do not use if the inner seal is broken .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
