D - COL Patient Antiseptic Skin Preparation Drug Facts Active Ingredient Chloroxylenol 0 . 24 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Antiseptic skin cleansers help reduce bacteria that potentially causes disease .
• For patient antiseptic skin preparation ( 15 mL packets only ) .
• For healthcare personnel hand wash .
• For surgical hand scrub .
Do not use • If you or the patient is allergic to Chloroxylenol or any other ingredient in this product .
When using this product • Keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• If contact occurs in any of these areas , rinse with cold water right away .
• Repeated general cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider .
Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Patient antiseptic skin preparation .
Thoroughly rinse the area to be cleansed with water .
Apply the minimum amount of the product necessary to cover the skin area and wash gently .
Rinse thoroughly with water .
• Surgical hand scrub .
Wet hands and forearms with water .
Scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of the product with a brush .
Rinse thoroughly under running water .
• Healthcare personnel handwash .
Wet hands with water .
Dispense about 5 mL of the product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds .
Rinse and dry thoroughly .
Other Information • Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
• Avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredient propylene glycol , cocamide dea , ammonium lauryl sulfate , sodium laureth sulfate , citric acid , edta , ammonium chloride , propylparaben , imidazolidinyl urea , fragrance , deionized water Net Wt .
15 mL per packet Distributed by : D - COL , Inc . 219 East Craig Place San Antonio , TX 78212 Questions ?
( 210 ) - 227 - 3612 D - COL Nasal Inner Rim Cleanser Uses For nasal inner rim cleanser .
Warnings For use only in the inner rim of each nostril .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of eye contact , flush with water .
Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , discomfort , or redness develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply a reasonable amount of the product to the end of your index finger for a single nasal inner rim application .
• Save a reasonable amount to apply to the opposite nasal inner rim .
• Insert your index finger into one nostril no further than the inner rim , and cover the inner rim of the nasal passage with the product .
• Do not apply the product beyond the inner rim of the nasal passage .
• Repeat the application of the product to the untreated nasal inner rim .
• Wait 30 seconds after you complete the application , and thoroughly wipe the inner rim of each nostril with a cloth wet with water .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Inactive Ingredient benzalkonium chloride , polysorbate 20 , peach kernel oil glycereth - 8 esters , sodium chloride , potassium sorbate , sodium citrate , xylitol , disodium edta , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , mentha viridis ( spearmint leaf ) oil , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree leaf ) oil , citric acid Net Wt .
1 mL per packet Distributed by : D - COL , Inc . 219 East Craig Place San Antonio , TX 78212 Questions ?
( 210 ) - 227 - 3612 D - COL Shampoo Drug Facts Active Ingredient Zinc Pyrithione 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - dandruff Uses helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly cover the scalp area .
• Rub hands together until product covers entire surface of your palms .
• Apply product to the scalp and thoroughly massage and cover the scalp .
• Rinse with water until the product is completely removed from the application area .
• Use one packet as directed .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Inactive Ingredient deionized water , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , sodium lauryl ether sulfate , PEG - 90 diisostearate , cocamidopropyl betaine , cocamide dea , cyclomethicone 5 , edta sodium , caprylyl glycol , sodium hydroxide Net Wt .
7 . 4 mL per packet Distributed by : D - COL , Inc . 219 East Craig Place San Antonio , TX 78212 Questions ?
( 210 ) - 227 - 3612 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton Label DCOL Personal Hygiene Convenience Kit Patient Antiseptic Skin Preparation Chloroxylenol . 24 % ( 3 count , Net Wt .
15 mL Per Packet ) Shampoo Zinc Pyrithione 1 . 0 % ( 3 count , Net Wt .
7 . 4 mL Per Packet ) Nasal Inner Rim Cleanser Organic ( 1 count , Net Wt .
1 mL ) Compare to active ingredient in Hibiclens : FDA : Chlorhexidine Gluconate can cause rare but serious life threatening allergic reaction .
Single Use Packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
