Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Avobenzone 2 % Sunscreen Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings • For external use only .
• Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash or irritation develops and lasts • Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • After cleansing apply evenly to face and neck every morning , at least 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours or after sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
( Not intended for use on children ) Other Ingredients Water , Propylene Glycol , Titanium Dioxide , Capric / Caprylic Triglycerides , Cetyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG 100 Stearate , Polysorbate 60 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 3 , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Disodium EDTA , Polysorbate 20 , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance , Benzyl Alcohol , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Extract , Hexylene Glycol , Caprylyl Glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylate - 13 , Polyisobutene , Octyldodecanol , Squalane , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ubiquinone 50 , Dimethicone , Diaminopropionoyl Tripeptide - 33 Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert & Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses This product has been shown to help prevent sun burn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
Other Information Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and freezing conditions .
SUN ALERT Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risk of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Manufactured by : Pharmco Laboratories Inc . • Titusville , FL 32780 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 87 g Tube Label PHARMCO SKINCARE LABS Anti - Aging Day Protect SPF 22 Net wt .
3 oz .
( 87 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
