[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isopto ® Carpine is indicated for the : Isopto Carpine is a muscarinic cholinergic agonist indicated for : • The reduction of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
( 1 . 1 ) • The management of acute angle - closure glaucoma .
( 1 . 2 ) • The prevention of postoperative elevated IOP associated with laser surgery .
( 1 . 3 ) • The induction of miosis .
( 1 . 4 ) 1 . 1 Reduction of Elevated Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) in Patients With Open - Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension 1 . 2 Management of Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma 1 . 3 Prevention of Postoperative Elevated IOP Associated With Laser Surgery 1 . 4 Induction of Miosis 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Instill one drop in the eye ( s ) up to four times daily .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Reduction of Elevated IOP in Patients With Open - Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension One drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % , 2 % , or 4 % should be applied topically in the eye ( s ) up to four times daily .
Pilocarpine - naïve patients should be started on the 1 % concentration as higher concentrations are often not tolerated initially .
The frequency of instillation and concentration of Isopto ® Carpine are determined by the severity of the elevated intraocular pressure and miotic response of the patient .
To limit systemic exposure to pilocarpine , patients may be instructed to perform punctal occlusion for 2 minutes after instillation of Isopto ® Carpine ophthalmic solution .
2 . 2 Management of Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma Prior to Isopto ® Carpine use , treatment with secretory suppressants and hyperosmotic agents may be needed to lower IOP below 50 mmHg and relieve iris ischemia .
For initial management of acute angle - closure glaucoma , one drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % or 2 % may be applied topically in the eye ( s ) up to three times over a 30 - minute period .
If laser iridoplasty or iridomy is used to break the attack , one drop of Isopto ® Carpine 4 % should be administered prior to the procedure .
Following laser iridoplasty , one drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % should be administered four times daily until an iridotomy can be performed .
2 . 3 Prevention of Postoperative Elevated IOP Associated With Laser Surgery One drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % , 2 % , or 4 % ( or two drops administered five minutes apart ) should be applied topically in the eye ( s ) 15 to 60 minutes prior to surgery .
2 . 4 Induction of Miosis One drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % , 2 % , or 4 % ( or two drops administered five minutes apart ) should be applied topically in the eye ( s ) .
2 . 5 Use With Other Topical Ophthalmic Medications Isopto ® Carpine may be used in combination with beta - blockers , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sympathomimetics or hyperosmotic agents .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
2 . 6 Use in Pediatric Patients In children under 2 years of age , one drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % should be applied topically in the eye ( s ) three times daily .
Children 2 years of age and over should be dosed as for adults .
For the induction of miosis prior to goniotomy or trabeculotomy in children , one drop of Isopto ® Carpine 1 % or 2 % should be applied topically in the eye 15 to 60 minutes prior to surgery .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Bottle filled with 15 mL of 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) , 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) , or 4 % ( 40 mg / mL ) pilocarpine hydrochloride sterile ophthalmic solution .
• Solution containing 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) , 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) or 4 % ( 40 mg / mL ) pilocarpine hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Poor Illumination : Exercise caution in night driving and other hazardous occupations in poor illumination .
( 5 . 1 ) • Preexisting Retinal Disease : Rare cases of retinal detachment have been reported ; a thorough examination of the retina , including funduscopy is advised in all patients prior to the initiation of therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Iritis : Caution is advised in patients with iritis .
( 5 . 3 ) • Congenital Glaucoma : Caution is advised in pediatric patients with primary congenital glaucoma for control of IOP as cases of a paradoxical increase in IOP have been reported .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Poor Illumination Patients should be advised to exercise caution in night driving and other hazardous occupations in poor illumination .
In addition , miotics may cause accommodative spasm .
Patients should be advised not to drive or use machinery if vision is not clear .
5 . 2 Preexisting Retinal Disease As with all miotics , rare cases of retinal detachment have been reported when used in certain susceptible individuals and those with preexisting retinal disease ; therefore , a thorough examination of the retina including funduscopy is advised in all patients prior to the initiation of therapy .
5 . 3 Iritis Isopto ® Carpine is not recommended to be used when iritis is present .
5 . 4 Primary Congenital Glaucoma Caution is advised when using Isopto ® Carpine in pediatric patients with primary congenital glaucoma for control of IOP as cases of a paradoxical increase in IOP have been reported .
In addition , the use of Isopto ® Carpine is not recommended in pediatric patients diagnosed with glaucoma secondary to anterior segment dysgenesis or uveitis ( especially if uveitis is active ) .
5 . 5 Contact Lens Wear Contact lens wearers should be advised to remove their lenses prior to the instillation of Isopto ® Carpine ophthalmic solution and to wait 10 minutes after dosing before reinserting their contact lenses .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are headache / browache , accommodative change , eye irritation , eye pain , blurred vision , and / or visual impairment .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflect exposure in four controlled clinical trials of 90 days to 2 years duration in 317 patients diagnosed with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
In the four clinical trials , patients were treated with Isopto ® Carpine 2 % , two to four times daily or with pilocarpine 1 % , 1 . 75 % , or 2 % in fixed combination with betaxolol 0 . 25 % , two or three times daily .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of patients in the pilocarpine 2 % populations were : headache / brow ache , accommodative change , blurred vision , eye irritation , visual impairment ( dim , dark , or “ jumping ” vision ) , and eye pain .
The adverse reaction profile reported for the use of Isopto ® Carpine in pediatric patients is comparable to that seen in adult patients .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy .
Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pilocarpine hydrochloride .
It is also not known whether pilocarpine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Isopto ® Carpine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Isopto ® Carpine is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in pediatric patients have been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Systemic toxicity following topical ocular administration of pilocarpine is rare , but occasionally patients who are sensitive may develop sweating and gastrointestinal overactivity following the suggested dosage and administration .
Overdosage can produce sweating , salivation , nausea , tremors and slowing of the pulse and a decrease in blood pressure .
In moderate overdosage , spontaneous recovery is to be expected and is aided by intravenous fluids to compensate for dehydration .
For patients demonstrating severe poisoning , atropine , the pharmacologic antagonist to pilocarpine , should be used .
11 DESCRIPTION Isopto ® Carpine ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) is a cholinergic agonist prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established name : pilocarpine hydrochloride Chemical name : 2 ( 3 H ) - furanone , 3 - ethyldihydro - 4 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 5 - yl ) - methyl ] - monohydrochloride , ( 3 S - cis ) - .
Molecular Formula : C11H16N2O2 • HCl ; Molecular Weight : 244 . 72 g / mol .
Each mL of Isopto ® Carpine ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) contains : Active : pilocarpine hydrochloride 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) , 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) , or 4 % ( 40 mg / mL ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : hypromellose 2910 , boric acid , sodium citrate , sodium chloride ( present in 1 % only ) ; hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) ; purified water .
Isopto ® Carpine has a pH of 3 . 5 to 5 . 5 and an osmolality of 290 to 350 mOsm / kg ( 1 % and 2 % products ) and 550 to 600 mOsm / kg ( 4 % product ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pilocarpine hydrochloride is a direct acting cholinergic parasympathomimetic agent which acts through direct stimulation of muscarinic receptors and smooth muscle such as the iris and secretory glands .
Pilocarpine contracts the ciliary muscle , causing increased tension on the scleral spur and opening of the trabecular meshwork spaces to facilitate outflow of aqueous humor .
Outflow resistance is reduced , lowering IOP .
Pilocarpine also produces miosis through contraction of the iris sphincter muscle .
Miosis relieves appositional angle narrowing and closure , which lowers IOP in certain types of angle - closure glaucoma .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic exposure to pilocarpine was evaluated in 14 healthy subjects administered 2 drops of Isopto ® Carpine ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 4 % to both eyes four times daily for eight days .
A comparison of Cmax values on Days 5 and 8 indicated that pilocarpine concentrations in plasma reached steady - state following topical administration of Isopto ® Carpine 4 % .
The mean ( SD ) Cmax and AUC0 - last values on Day 8 were 3 . 7 ( 3 . 2 ) ng / mL and 7 . 7 ( 8 . 4 ) ng × hour / mL , respectively .
The Tmax values on Day 8 ranged from 0 . 5 to 1 hour .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There have been no long - term studies done using pilocarpine hydrochloride in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In clinical trials reported in the medical literature , pilocarpine ophthalmic solution reduced IOP by 3 - 7 mmHg in patients with open - angle glaucoma .
Pilocarpine ophthalmic solution has also been shown to be effective in the induction of miosis , in the prevention of postoperative elevated IOP , and in the management of acute angle - closure glaucoma .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Isopto ® Carpine ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 1 % , 2 % , and 4 % is supplied sterile in natural low density polyethylene plastic ophthalmic ® dispensers and green low density polyethylene tips with green polypropylene caps .
15 mL in 15 mL bottles 1 % : NDC 0998 - 0203 - 15 2 % : NDC 0998 - 0204 - 15 4 % : NDC 0998 - 0206 - 15 STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Avoiding Contamination of the Product Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Night Driving Caution is advised with night driving and when hazardous activities are undertaken in poor illumination .
Accommodative Spasm Isopto ® Carpine ophthalmic solution may cause problems when changing focus between near objects and distant objects .
Do not drive or use machinery if vision is not clear .
Contact Lens Wear Contact lens should be removed prior to the instillation of Isopto ® Carpine ophthalmic solution .
Wait 10 minutes after dosing before reinserting contact lenses .
Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy If more than one topical ophthalmic medication is being used , the medicines must be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
Systemic Exposure To limit exposure to pilocarpine to the eye alone , close eyes gently and apply pressure with finger to the corner of eye by the nose for 2 minutes after instillation of Isopto ® Carpine ophthalmic solution .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2020 - 78 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0998 - 0203 - 15 Alcon ® Isopto ® Carpine 1 % ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 15 mL Sterile Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0998 - 0204 - 15 Alcon ® Isopto ® Carpine 2 % ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 15 mL Sterile Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0998 - 0206 - 15 Alcon ® Isopto ® Carpine 4 % ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 15 mL Sterile Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
