The sanitizer wipes is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients : • Alcohol ( Isopropyl alcohol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Hydrogen peroxide • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
( 27 . 465 % ) • Fragrance ( Parfum ) • Aloe vera lead extract Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Use Sanitizing alcohol wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • To dispense , lift cover , remove seal , pull center sheet from roll , twist to a point and feed through dispenser holde in cover .
Keep lid closed to prevent moisture loss .
• Open and unfold wipe • Thoroughly wipe hands , fingers and wrists .
Be sure to use the entire wipe .
Allow to dry .
• For dirty hands , use first wipe to clean hands , then discard wipe , sanitize with the second wipe .
• Discard after single use • Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients water ( aqua ) , glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , fragrance ( parfum ) , Aloe Barbadensis Package Label - Principal Display Panel 80 ct NDC : 76665 - 008 - 80 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
