DESCRIPTION Quinidine is an antimalarial schizonticide and an antiarrhythmic agent with class 1 A activity ; it is the d - isomer of quinine , and its molecular weight is 324 . 43 .
Quinidine sulfate is the sulfate salt of quinidine ; its chemical name is cinchonan - 9 - ol , 6 ’ - methoxy - , ( 9 S ) - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) dihydrate ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is : C40H48N4O4 ∙ H2SO4 ∙ 2H2O ; and its molecular weight is 782 . 96 , of which 82 . 9 % is quinidine base .
Quinidine sulfate occurs as fine needle - like , white crystals , frequently cohering in masses , or fine , white powder .
It is odorless , has a very bitter taste , and darkens on exposure to light .
It is slightly soluble in water , soluble in alcohol and in chloroform , and insoluble in ether .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 200 mg of quinidine sulfate ( equivalent to 166 mg of quinidine base ) 300 mg of quinidine sulfate ( equivalent to 249 mg of quinidine base ) .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : confectioner ’ s sugar , corn starch , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch and zinc stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism The absolute bioavailability of quinidine from quinidine sulfate tablets is about 70 % , but this varies widely ( 45 to 100 % ) between patients .
The less - than - complete bioavailability is the result of first - pass metabolism in the liver .
Peak serum levels generally appear about 2 hours after dosing ; the rate of absorption is somewhat slowed when the drug is taken with food , but the extent of absorption is not changed .
The volume of distribution of quinidine is 2 to 3 L / kg in healthy young adults , but this may be reduced to as little as 0 . 5 L / kg in patients with congestive heart failure , or increased to 3 to 5 L / kg in patients with cirrhosis of the liver .
At concentrations of 2 to 5 mg / L ( 6 . 5 to 16 . 2 μmol / L ) , the fraction of quinidine bound to plasma proteins ( mainly to α1 - acid glycoprotein and to albumin ) is 80 to 88 % in adults and older children , but it is lower in pregnant women , and in infants and neonates it may be as low as 50 to 70 % .
Because α1 - acid glycoprotein levels are increased in response to stress , serum levels of total quinidine may be greatly increased in settings such as acute myocardial infarction , even though the serum content of unbound ( active ) drug may remain normal .
Protein binding is also increased in chronic renal failure , but binding abruptly descends toward or below normal when heparin is administered for hemodialysis .
Quinidine clearance typically proceeds at 3 to 5 mL / min / kg in adults , but clearance in children may be twice or three times as rapid .
The elimination half - life is 6 to 8 hours in adults and 3 to 4 hours in children .
Quinidine clearance is unaffected by hepatic cirrhosis , so the increased volume of distribution seen in cirrhosis leads to a proportionate increase in the elimination half - life .
Most quinidine is eliminated hepatically via the action of cytochrome P450IIIA4 ; there are several different hydroxylated metabolites , and some of these have antiarrhythmic activity .
The most important of quinidine ’ s metabolites is 3 - hydroxyquinidine ( 3 HQ ) , serum levels of which can exceed those of quinidine in patients receiving conventional doses of quinidine sulfate .
The volume of distribution of 3 HQ appears to be larger than that of quinidine , and the elimination half - life of 3 HQ is about 12 hours .
As measured by antiarrhythmic effects in animals , by QTC prolongation in human volunteers , or by various in vitro techniques , 3 HQ has at least half the antiarrhythmic activity of the parent compound , so it may be responsible for a substantial fraction of the effect of quinidine sulfate in chronic use .
When the urine pH is less than 7 , about 20 % of administered quinidine appears unchanged in the urine , but this fraction drops to as little as 5 % when the urine is more alkaline .
Renal clearance involves both glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion , moderated by ( pH - dependent ) tubular reabsorption .
The net renal clearance is about 1 mL / min / kg in healthy adults .
When renal function is taken into account , quinidine clearance is apparently independent of patient age .
Assays of serum quinidine levels are widely available , but the results of modern assays may not be consistent with results cited in the older medical literature .
The serum levels of quinidine cited in this package insert are those derived from specific assays , using either benzene extraction or ( preferably ) reverse - phase high - pressure liquid chromatography .
In matched samples , older assays might unpredictably have given results that were as much as two or three times higher .
A typical “ therapeutic ” concentration range is 2 to 6 mg / L ( 6 . 2 to 18 . 5 μmol / L ) .
Mechanisms of Action In patients with malaria , quinidine acts primarily as an intra - erythrocytic schizonticide , with little effect upon sporozites or upon pre - erythrocytic parasites .
Quinidine is gametocidal to Plasmodium vivax and P . malariae , but not to P . falciparum .
In cardiac muscle and in Purkinje fibers , quinidine depresses the rapid inward depolarizing sodium current , thereby slowing phase - 0 depolarization and reducing the amplitude of the action potential without affecting the resting potential .
In normal Purkinje fibers , it reduces the slope of phase - 4 depolarization , shifting the threshold voltage upward toward zero .
The result is slowed conduction and reduced automaticity in all parts of the heart , with increase of the effective refractory period relative to the duration of the action potential in the atria , ventricles , and Purkinje tissues .
Quinidine also raises the fibrillation thresholds of the atria and ventricles , and it raises the ventricular defibrillation threshold as well .
Quinidine ’ s actions fall into class 1 A in the Vaughan - Williams classification .
By slowing conduction and prolonging the effective refractory period , quinidine can interrupt or prevent reentrant arrhythmias and arrhythmias due to increased automaticity , including atrial flutter , atrial fibrillation , and paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia .
In patients with the sick sinus syndrome , quinidine can cause marked sinus node depression and bradycardia .
In most patients , however , use of quinidine is associated with an increase in the sinus rate .
Quinidine prolongs the QT interval in a dose - related fashion .
This may lead to increased ventricular automaticity and polymorphic ventricular tachycardias , including torsades de pointes ( see WARNINGS ) .
In addition , quinidine has anticholinergic activity , it has negative inotropic activity , and it acts peripherally as an α - adrenergic antagonist ( that is , as a vasodilator ) .
Clinical Effects Maintenance of Sinus Rhythm After Conversion From Atrial Fibrillation In six clinical trials ( published between 1970 and 1984 ) with a total of 808 patients , quinidine ( 418 patients ) was compared to nontreatment ( 258 patients ) or placebo ( 132 patients ) for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after cardioversion from chronic atrial fibrillation .
Quinidine was consistently more efficacious in maintaining sinus rhythm , but a metaanalysis found that mortality in the quinidine - exposed patients ( 2 . 9 % ) was significantly greater than mortality in the patients who had not been treated with active drug ( 0 . 8 % ) .
Suppression of atrial fibrillation with quinidine has theoretical patient benefits ( e . g . , improved exercise tolerance ; reduction in hospitalization for cardioversion ; lack of arrhythmiarelated palpitations , dyspnea , and chest pain ; reduced incidence of systemic embolism and / or stroke ) , but these benefits have never been demonstrated in clinical trials .
Some of these benefits ( e . g . , reduction in stroke incidence ) may be achievable by other means ( anticoagulation ) .
By slowing the rate of atrial flutter / fibrillation , quinidine can decrease the degree of atrioventricular block and cause an increase , sometimes marked , in the rate at which supraventricular impulses are successfully conducted by the atrioventricular node , with a resultant paradoxical increase in ventricular rate ( see WARNINGS ) .
Non - Life - Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias In studies of patients with a variety of ventricular arrhythmias ( mainly frequent ventricular premature beats and non - sustained ventricular tachycardia ) , quinidine ( total N = 502 ) has been compared to flecainide ( N = 141 ) , mexiletine ( N = 246 ) , propafenone ( N = 53 ) , and tocainide ( N = 67 ) .
In each of these studies , the mortality in the quinidine group was numerically greater than the mortality in the comparator group .
When the studies were combined in a metaanalysis , quinidine was associated with a statistically significant threefold relative risk of death .
At therapeutic doses , quinidine ’ s only consistent effect upon the surface electrocardiogram is an increase in the QT interval .
This prolongation can be monitored as a guide to safety , and it may provide better guidance than serum drug levels ( see WARNINGS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Conversion of Atrial Fibrillation / Flutter In patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation / flutter whose symptoms are not adequately controlled by measures that reduce the rate of ventricular response , quinidine sulfate is indicated as a means of restoring normal sinus rhythm .
If this use of quinidine sulfate does not restore sinus rhythm within a reasonable time ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , then quinidine sulfate should be discontinued .
Reduction of Frequency of Relapse Into Atrial Fibrillation / Flutter Chronic therapy with quinidine sulfate is indicated for some patients at high risk of symptomatic atrial fibrillation / flutter , generally patients who have had previous episodes of atrial fibrillation / flutter that were so frequent and poorly tolerated as to outweigh , in the judgement of the physician and the patient , the risks of prophylactic therapy with quinidine sulfate .
The increased risk of death should specifically be considered .
Quinidine sulfate should be used only after alternative measures ( e . g . , use of other drugs to control the ventricular rate ) have been found to be inadequate .
In patients with histories of frequent symptomatic episodes of atrial fibrillation / flutter , the goal of therapy should be an increase in the average time between episodes .
In most patients , the tachyarrhythmia will recur during therapy , and a single recurrence should not be interpreted as therapeutic failure .
Suppression of Ventricular Arrhythmias Quinidine sulfate is also indicated for the suppression of recurrent documented ventricular arrhythmias , such as sustained ventricular tachycardia , that in the judgement of the physician are lifethreatening .
Because of the proarrhythmic effects of quinidine , its use with ventricular arrhythmias of lesser severity is generally not recommended , and treatment of patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contractions should be avoided .
Where possible , therapy should be guided by the results of programmed electrical stimulation and / or Holter monitoring with exercise .
Antiarrhythmic drugs ( including quinidine sulfate ) have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with ventricular arrhythmias .
Treatment of Malaria Quinidine sulfate is also indicated in the treatment of life - threatening Plasmodium falciparum malaria .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Quinidine is contraindicated in patients who are known to be allergic to it , or who have developed thrombocytopenic purpura during prior therapy with quinidine or quinine .
In the absence of a functioning artificial pacemaker , quinidine is also contraindicated in any patient whose cardiac rhythm is dependent upon a junctional or idioventricular pacemaker , including patients in complete atrioventricular block .
Quinidine is also contraindicated in patients who , like those with myasthenia gravis , might be adversely affected by an anticholinergic agent .
WARNINGS Mortality In many trials of antiarrhythmic therapy for non - life - threatening arrhythmias , active antiarrhythmic therapy has resulted in increased mortality ; the risk of active therapy is probably greatest in patients with structural heart disease .
In the case of quinidine used to prevent or defer recurrence of atrial flutter / fibrillation , the best available data come from a metaanalysis CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY / Clinical Effects above .
In the patients studied in the trials there analyzed , the mortality associated with the use of quinidine was more than three times as great as the mortality associated with the use of placebo .
Another metaanalysis , also described under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY / Clinical Effects , showed that in patients with various non - life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias , the mortality associated with the use of quinidine was consistently greater than that associated with the use of any of a variety of alternative antiarrhythmics .
Proarrhythmic Effects Like many other drugs ( including all other class IA antiarrhythmics ) , quinidine prolongs the QTC interval , and this can lead to torsades de pointes , a life - threatening ventricular arrhythmia ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
The risk of torsades is increased by bradycardia , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , or high serum levels of quinidine , but it may appear in the absence of any of these risk factors .
The best predictor of this arrhythmia appears to be the length of the QTC interval , and quinidine should be used with extreme care in patients who have preexisting long - QT syndromes , who have histories of torsades de pointes of any cause , or who have previously responded to quinidine ( or other drugs that prolong ventricular repolarization ) with marked lengthening of the QTC interval .
Estimation of the incidence of torsades in patients with therapeutic levels of quinidine is not possible from the available data .
Other ventricular arrhythmias that have been reported with quinidine include frequent extrasystoles , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular flutter , and ventricular fibrillation .
Paradoxical Increase in Ventricular Rate in Atrial Flutter / Fibrillation When quinidine is administered to patients with atrial flutter / fibrillation , the desired pharmacologic reversion to sinus rhythm may ( rarely ) be preceded by a slowing of the atrial rate with a consequent increase in the rate of beats conducted to the ventricles .
The resulting ventricular rate may be very high ( greater than 200 beats per minute ) and poorly tolerated .
This hazard may be decreased if partial atrioventricular block is achieved prior to initiation of quinidine therapy , using conduction - reducing drugs such as digitalis , verapamil , diltiazem , or a β - receptor blocking agent .
Exacerbated Bradycardia in Sick Sinus Syndrome In patients with the sick sinus syndrome , quinidine has been associated with marked sinus node depression and bradycardia .
Pharmacokinetic Considerations Renal or hepatic dysfunction causes the elimination of quinidine to be slowed , while congestive heart failure causes a reduction in quinidine ’ s apparent volume of distribution .
Any of these conditions can lead to quinidine toxicity if dosage is not appropriately reduced .
In addition , interactions with coadministered drugs can alter the serum concentration and activity of quinidine , leading either to toxicity or to lack of efficacy if the dose of quinidine is not appropriately modified .
( See PRECAUTIONS / Drug Interactions . )
Vagolysis Because quinidine opposes the atrial and A - V nodal effects of vagal stimulation , physical or pharmacological vagal maneuvers undertaken to terminate paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia may be ineffective in patients receiving quinidine .
PRECAUTIONS Heart Block In patients without implanted pacemakers who are at high risk of complete atrioventricular block ( e . g . , those with digitalis intoxication , second - degree atrioventricular block , or severe intraventricular conduction defects ) , quinidine should be used only with caution .
Drug Interactions Altered Pharmacokinetics of Quinidine Drugs that alkalinize the urine ( carbonic - anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate , thiazide diuretics ) reduce renal elimination of quinidine .
By pharmacokinetic mechanisms that are not well understood , quinidine levels are increased by coadministration of amiodarone or cimetidine .
Very rarely , and again by mechanisms not understood , quinidine levels are decreased by coadministration of nifedipine .
Hepatic elimination of quinidine may be accelerated by coadministration of drugs ( phenobarbital , phenytoin , rifampin ) that induce production of cytochrome P450IIIA4 .
Perhaps because of competition for the P450IIIA4 metabolic pathway , quinidine levels rise when ketaconazole is coadministered .
Coadministration of propranolol usually does not affect quinidine pharmacokinetics , but in some studies the β - blocker appeared to cause increases in the peak serum levels of quinidine , decreases in quinidine ’ s volume of distribution , and decreases in total quinidine clearance .
The effects ( if any ) of coadministration of other β - blockers on quinidine pharmacokinetics have not been adequately studied .
Diltiazem significantly decreases the clearance and increases the t1 / 2 of quinidine , but quinidine does not alter the kinetics of diltiazem .
Hepatic clearance of quinidine is significantly reduced during coadministration of verapamil , with corresponding increases in serum levels and half - life .
Altered Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs Quinidine slows the elimination of digoxin and simultaneously reduces digoxin ’ s apparent volume of distribution .
As a result , serum digoxin levels may be as much as doubled .
When quinidine and digoxin are coadministered , digoxin doses usually need to be reduced .
Serum levels of digoxin are also raised when quinidine is coadministered , although the effect appears to be smaller .
By a mechanism that is not understood , quinidine potentiates the anticoagulatory action of warfarin , and the anticoagulant dosage may need to be reduced .
Cytochrome P450IID6 is an enzyme critical to the metabolism of many drugs , notably including mexiletine , some phenothiazines , and most polycyclic antidepressants .
Constitutional deficiency of cytochrome P450IID6 is found in less than 1 % of Orientals , in about 2 % of American blacks , and in about 8 % of American whites .
Testing with debrisoquine is sometimes used to distinguish the P450IID6 - deficient “ poor metabolizers ” from the majority - pheno - type “ extensive metabolizers ” .
When drugs whose metabolism is P450IID6 - dependent are given to poor metabolizers , the serum levels achieved are higher , sometimes much higher , than the serum levels achieved when identical doses are given to extensive metabolizers .
To obtain similar clinical benefit without toxicity , doses given to poor metabolizers may need to be greatly reduced .
In the cases of prodrugs whose actions are actually mediated by P450IID6 - produced metabolites ( for example , codeine and hydrocodone , whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone , respectively ) , it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in poor metabolizers .
Quinidine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6 , but therapeutic serum levels of quinidine inhibit the action of cytochrome P450IID6 , effectively converting extensive metabolizers into poor metabolizers .
Caution must be exercised whenever quinidine is prescribed together with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6 .
Perhaps by competing for pathways of renal clearance , coadministration of quinidine causes an increase in serum levels of procainamide .
Serum levels of haloperidol are increased when quinidine is coadministered .
Presumably because both drugs are metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6 , coadministration of quinidine causes variable slowing of the metabolism of nifedipine .
Interactions with other dihydropyridine calcium - channel blockers have not been reported , but these agents ( including felodipine , nicardipine , and nimodipine ) are all dependent upon P450IIIA4 for metabolism , so similar interactions with quinidine should be anticipated .
Altered Pharmacodynamics of Other Drugs Quinidine ’ s anitcholinergic , vasodilating , and negative inotropic actions may be additive to those of other drugs with these effects , and antagonistic to those of drugs with cholinergic , vasoconstricting , and positive inotropic effects .
For example , when quinidine and verapamil are coadministered in doses that are each well tolerated as monotherapy , hypotension attributable to additive peripheral α - blockade is sometimes reported .
Quinidine potentiates the actions of depolarizing ( succinylcholine , decamethonium ) and nondepolarizing ( d - tubocurarine , pancuronium ) neuromuscular blocking agents .
These phenomena are not well understood , but they are observed in animal models as well as in humans .
In addition , in vitro addition of quinidine to the serum of pregnant women reduces the activity of pseudocholinesterase , an enzyme that is essential to the metabolism of succinylcholine .
Non - Interactions of Quinidine With Other Drugs Quinidine has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of diltiazem , flecainide , mephenytoin , metoprolol , propafenone , propranolol , quinine , timolol , or tocainide .
Conversely , the pharmacokinetics of quinidine are not significantly affected by caffeine , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , diltiazem , felodipine , omeprazole , or quinine .
Quinidine ’ s pharmacokinetics are also unaffected by cigarette smoking .
Information for Patients Before prescribing quinidine sulfate as prophylaxis against recurrence of atrial fibrillation , the physician should inform the patient of the risks and benefits to be expected ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Discussion should include the facts : • • that the goal of therapy will be a reduction ( probably not to zero ) in the frequency of episodes of atrial fibrillation ; and • • that reduced frequency of fibrillatory episodes may be expected , if achieved , to bring symptomatic benefit ; but • • that no data are available to show that reduced frequency of fibrillatory episodes will reduce the risks of irreversible harm through stroke or death ; and in fact • • that such data as are available suggest that treatment with quinidine sulfate is likely to increase the patient ’ s risk of death .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies to evaluate quinidine ’ s carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been performed .
Similarly , there are no animal data as to quinidine ’ s potential to impair fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with quinidine .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Quinidine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Human placental transport of quinidine has not been systematically studied .
In one neonate whose mother had received quinidine throughout her pregnancy , the serum level of quinidine was equal to that of the mother , with no apparent ill effect .
The level of quinidine in amniotic fluid was about three times higher than that found in serum .
In another case , the levels of quinidine and 3 - hydroxyquinidine in cord blood were about 30 % of simultaneous maternal levels .
Labor and Delivery Quinine is said to be oxytocic in humans , but there are no adequate data as to quinidine ’ s effects ( if any ) on human labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Quinidine is present in human milk at levels slightly lower than those in maternal serum ; a human infant ingesting such milk should ( scaling directly by weight ) be expected to develop serum quinidine levels at least an order of magnitude lower than those of the mother .
On the other hand , the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of quinidine in human infants have not been adequately studied , and neonates ’ reduced protein binding of quinidine may increase their risk of toxicity at low total serum levels .
Administration of quinidine should ( if possible ) be avoided in lactating women who continue to nurse .
Geriatric Use Safety and efficacy of quinidine in elderly patients has not been systematically studied .
Pediatric Use In antimalarial trials , quinidine was as safe and effective in pediatric patients as in adults .
Notwithstanding the known pharmacokinetic differences between children and adults ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) , children in these trials received the same doses ( on a mg / kg basis ) as adults .
Safety and effectiveness of antiarrhythmic use in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years , but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions .
The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal , including diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and heartburn / esophagitis .
In one study of 245 adult outpatients who received quinidine to suppress premature ventricular contractions , the incidences of reported adverse experiences were as shown in the table below .
The most serious quinidine - associated adverse reactions are described above under WARNINGS .
Adverse Experiences in a 245 - Patient PVC Trial Incidence ( % ) Incidence ( % ) diarrhea 85 ( 35 ) “ upper gastrointestinal distress ” 55 ( 22 ) lightheadedness 37 ( 15 ) headache 18 ( 7 ) fatigue 17 ( 7 ) palpitations 16 ( 7 ) angina - like pain 14 ( 6 ) weakness 13 ( 5 ) rash 11 ( 5 ) visual problems 8 ( 3 ) change in sleep habits 7 ( 3 ) tremor 6 ( 2 ) nervousness 5 ( 2 ) discoordination 3 ( 1 ) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine , but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism , a syndrome that may also include tinnitus , reversible high - frequency hearing loss , deafness , vertigo , blurred vision , diplopia , photophobia , headache , confusion , and delirium .
Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity , but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose .
A few cases of hepatotoxicity , including granulomatous hepatitis , have been reported in patients receiving quinidine .
All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy , and most ( not all ) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn .
Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes associated with quinidine therapy have included fever , urticaria , flushing , exfoliative rash , bronchospasm , psoriaform rash , pruritus and lymphadenopathy , hemolytic anemia , vasculitis , pneumonitis , thrombocytopenic purpura , uveitis , angioedema , agranulocytosis , the sicca syndrome , arthralgia , myalgia , elevation in serum levels of skeletal - muscle enzymes , and a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus .
Convulsions , apprehension , and ataxia have been reported , but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion .
There are many reports of syncope .
Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine , but these reactions appear to be extremely rare .
Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression , mydriasis , disturbed color perception , night blindness , scotomata , optic neuritis , visual field loss , photosensitivity , and abnormalities of pigmentation .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Epic Pharma , LLC at 1 - 888 - 374 - 2791 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch OVERDOSAGE Overdoses with various oral formulations of quinidine have been well described .
Death has been described after a 5 - gram ingestion by a toddler , while an adolescent was reported to survive after ingesting 8 grams of quinidine .
The most important ill effects of acute quinidine overdoses are ventricular arrhythmias and hypotension .
Other signs and symptoms of overdose may include vomiting , diarrhea , tinnitus , high - frequency hearing loss , vertigo , blurred vision , diplopia , photophobia , headache , confusion , and delirium .
Arrhythmias Serum quinidine levels can be conveniently assayed and monitored , but the electrocardiographic QTC interval is a better predictor of quinidine - induced ventricular arrhythmias .
The necessary treatment of hemodynamically unstable polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ( including torsades de pointes ) is withdrawal of treatment with quinidine and either immediate cardioversion or , if a cardiac pacemaker is in place or immediately available , immediate overdrive pacing .
After pacing or cardioversion , further management must be guided by the length of the QTC interval .
Quinidine - associated ventricular tachyarrhythmias with normal underlying QTC intervals have not been adequately studied .
Because of the theoretical possibility of QT - prolonging effects that might be additive to those of quinidine , other antiarrhythmics with Class I ( disopyramide , procainamide ) or Class III activities should ( if possible ) be avoided .
Similarly , although the use of bretylium in quinidine overdose has not been reported , it is reasonable to expect that the α – blocking properties of bretylium might be additive to those of quinidine , resulting in problematic hypotension .
If the post - cardioversion QTC interval is prolonged , then the precardioversion polymorphic ventricular tachyarrhythmia was ( by definition ) torsades de pointes .
In this case , lidocaine and bretylium are unlikely to be of value , and other Class I antiarrhythmics ( disopyramide , procainamide ) are likely to exacerbate the situation .
Factors contributing to QTC prolongation ( especially hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , and hypocalcemia ) should be sought out and ( if possible ) aggressively corrected .
Prevention of recurrent torsades may require sustained overdrive pacing or the cautious administration of isoproterenol ( 30 to 150 ng / kg / min ) .
Hypotension Quinidine - induced hypotension that is not due to an arrhythmia is likely to be a consequence of quinidine - related α - blockade and vasorelaxation .
Simple repletion of central volume Trendelenburg positioning , saline infusion ) may be sufficient therapy ; other interventions reported to have been beneficial in this setting are those that increase peripheral vascular resistance , including α - agonist catecholamines ( norepinephrine , metaraminol ) and the Military Anti - Shock Trousers .
Treatment To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison - Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison - control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdose , consider the possibilities of multiple - drug overdoses , drug - drug interactions , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Accelerated Removal Adequate studies of orally - administered activated charcoal in human overdoses of quinidine have not been reported , but there are animal data showing significant enhancement of systemic elimination following this intervention , and there is at least one human case report in which the elimination half - life of quinidine in the serum was apparently shortened by repeated gastric lavage .
Activated charcoal should be avoided if an ileus is present ; the conventional dose is 1 gram / kg , administered every 2 to 6 hours as a slurry with 8 mL / kg of tap water .
Although renal elimination of quinidine might theoretically be accelerated by maneuvers to acidify the urine , such maneuvers are potentially hazardous and of no demonstrated benefit .
Quinidine is not usually removed from the circulation by dialysis .
Following quinidine overdose , drugs that delay elimination of quinidine ( cimetidine , carbonicanhydrase inhibitors , thiazide diuretics ) should be withdrawn unless absolutely required .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of P . Falcipum Malaria Quinidine sulfate tablets are used in one of the approved regimens for the treatment of life - threatening P . falciparum malaria .
The central component of the regimen is Quinidine Gluconate Injection , and the regimen is described in the package insert of Quinidine Gluconate Injection .
Conversion of Atrial Fibrillation / Flutter to Sinus Rhythm Especially in patients with known structural heart disease or other risk factors for toxicity , initiation or dose - adjustment of treatment with quinidine sulfate should generally be performed in a setting where facilities and personnel for monitoring and resuscitation are continuously available .
Patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation / flutter should be treated with quinidine sulfate only after ventricular rate control ( e . g . , with digitalis or β - blockers ) has failed to provide satisfactory control of symptoms .
Adequate trials have not identified an optimal regimen of quinidine sulfate for conversion of atrial fibrillation / flutter to sinus rhythm .
In one reported regimen , the patient first receives two tablets ( 400 mg ; 332 mg of quinidine base ) of quinidine sulfate every six hours .
If this regimen has not resulted in conversion after 4 or 5 doses , then the dose is cautiously increased .
If , at any point during administration , the QRS complex widens to 130 % of its pre - treatment duration ; the QTC interval widens to 130 % of its pre - treatment duration and is then longer than 500 ms ; P waves disappear ; or the patient develops significant tachycardia , symptomatic bradycardia , or hypotension , then quinidine sulfate is discontinued , and other means of conversion ( e . g . , direct - current cardioversion ) are considered .
Reduction of Frequency of Relapse Into Atrial Fibrillation / Flutter In a patient with a history of frequent symptomatic episodes of atrial fibrillation / flutter , the goal of therapy with quinidine sulfate should be an increase in the average time between episodes .
In most patients , the tachyarrhythmia will recur during therapy with quinidine sulfate , and a single recurrence should not be interpreted as therapeutic failure .
Especially in patients with known structural heart disease or other risk factors for toxicity , initiation or dose - adjustment of treatment with quinidine sulfate should generally be performed in a setting where facilities and personnel for monitoring and resuscitation are continuously available .
Monitoring should be continued for two or three days after initiation of the regimen on which the patient will be discharged .
Therapy with quinidine sulfate should be begun with 200 mg ( equivalent to 166 mg of quinidine base ) every six hours .
If this regimen is well tolerated , if the serum quinidine level is still well within the laboratory ’ s therapeutic range , and if the average time between arrhythmic episodes has not been satisfactorily increased , then the dose may be cautiously raised .
The total daily dosage should be reduced if the QRS complex widens to 130 % of its pretreatment duration ; the QTC interval widens to 130 % of its pretreatment duration and is then longer than 500 ms ; P waves disappear ; or the patient develops significant tachycardia , symptomatic bradycardia , or hypotension .
Suppression of Ventricular Arrhythmias Dosing regimens for the use of quinidine sulfate in suppressing life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias have not been adequately studied .
Described regimens have generally been similar to the regimen described just above for the prophylaxis of symptomatic atrial fibrillation / flutter .
Where possible , therapy should be guided by the results of programmed electrical stimulation and / or Holter monitoring with exercise .
HOW SUPPLIED Quinidine Sulfate Tablets are supplied as follows : 200 mg - White tablet scored imprinted E511 NDC 42806 - 513 - 30 bottles of 30 NDC 42806 - 513 - 01 bottles of 100 300 mg - White tablet scored imprinted E512 NDC 42806 - 512 - 30 bottles of 30 NDC 42806 - 512 - 01 bottles of 100 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well - closed , light - resistant container .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by : Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Rev . 07 - 2021 - 00 MF512REV07 / 21 OS0005 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 200 mg 30 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 300 mg 30 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
