Contraindications ( 4 ) 12 / 2009 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) 12 / 2009 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ACTONEL is a bisphosphonate indicated for : • Treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 1 . 1 ) , • Treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 1 . 2 ) , • Treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis ( 1 . 3 ) , • Treatment of Paget ’ s disease ( 1 . 4 ) .
1 . 1 Postmenopausal Osteoporosis ACTONEL is indicated for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women .
In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , ACTONEL reduces the incidence of vertebral fractures and a composite endpoint of nonvertebral osteoporosis - related fractures [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 2 Osteoporosis in Men ACTONEL is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis .
1 . 3 Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis ACTONEL is indicated for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis in men and women who are either initiating or continuing systemic glucocorticoid treatment ( daily dosage of ≥ 7 . 5 mg prednisone or equivalent ) for chronic diseases .
Patients treated with glucocorticoids should receive adequate amounts of calcium and vitamin D . 1 . 4 Paget ’ s Disease ACTONEL is indicated for treatment of Paget ’ s disease of bone in men and women .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ACTONEL should be taken at least 30 minutes before the first food or drink of the day other than water .
To facilitate delivery to the stomach , ACTONEL should be swallowed while the patient is in an upright position and with a full glass of plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ) .
Patients should not lie down for 30 minutes after taking the medication [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Calcium supplements and calcium - , aluminum - , and magnesium - containing medications may interfere with the absorption of ACTONEL and should be taken at a different time of the day .
ACTONEL is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with a creatinine clearance ≥ 30 mL / min or in the elderly .
Must be taken with plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ) at least 30 minutes before the first food or drink of the day ; do not lie down for 30 minutes ( 2 ) Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women : 5 mg daily , 35 mg once a week , 75 mg taken on two consecutive days each month , or 150 mg once a month ( 2 . 1 ) Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women : 5 mg daily , or 35 mg once a week ( 2 . 2 ) Men with Osteoporosis : 35 mg once a week ( 2 . 3 ) Treatment and Prevention of Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis : 5 mg daily ( 2 . 4 ) Paget ’ s Disease : 30 mg daily for 2 months ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) ] The recommended regimen is : • one 5 mg tablet orally , taken daily or • one 35 mg tablet orally , taken once a week or • one 75 mg tablet orally , taken on two consecutive days for a total of two tablets each month or • one 150 mg tablet orally , taken once a month 2 . 2 Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) ] The recommended regimen is : • one 5 mg tablet orally , taken daily or • one 35 mg tablet orally , taken once a week or • alternatively , one 75 mg tablet orally , taken on two consecutive days for a total of two tablets each month may be considered or • alternatively , one 150 mg tablet orally , taken once a month may be considered 2 . 3 Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men with Osteoporosis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] The recommended regimen is : • one 35 mg tablet orally , taken once a week 2 . 4 Treatment and Prevention of Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 3 ) ] The recommended regimen is : • one 5 mg tablet orally , taken daily 2 . 5 Treatment of Paget ’ s Disease [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 4 ) ] The recommended treatment regimen is 30 mg orally once daily for 2 months .
Retreatment may be considered ( following post - treatment observation of at least 2 months ) if relapse occurs , or if treatment fails to normalize serum alkaline phosphatase .
For retreatment , the dose and duration of therapy are the same as for initial treatment .
No data are available on more than 1 course of retreatment .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 5 mg film - coated , oval , yellow tablet with RSN on 1 face and 5 mg on the other .
• 30 mg film - coated , oval , white tablet with RSN on 1 face and 30 mg on the other .
• 35 mg film - coated , oval , orange tablet with RSN on 1 face and 35 mg on the other .
• 75 mg film - coated , oval , pink tablet with RSN on 1 face and 75 mg on the other .
• 150 mg film - coated , oval , blue tablet with RSN on 1 face and 150 mg on the other .
Tablets : 5 , 30 , 35 , 75 , and 150 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Abnormalities of the esophagus which delay esophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypocalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to any component of this product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] • Abnormalities of the esophagus which delay esophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Hypocalcemia ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Known hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 , 6 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe irritation of the upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) mucosa can occur .
Dosing instructions should be followed and caution should be used in patients with active upper GI disease .
Discontinue use if new or worsening symptoms occur ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hypocalcemia may worsen and must be corrected prior to use ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported rarely ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Severe bone , joint , or muscle pain may occur .
Consider discontinuing use if severe symptoms develop ( 5 . 4 , 6 . 2 ) .
• Before initiating treatment in patients with glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis , sex steroid hormonal status of both men and women should be ascertained and appropriate replacement considered ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Bisphosphonates may interfere with bone - imaging agents ( 5 . 7 ) .
5 . 1 Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ACTONEL , like other bisphosphonates administered orally , may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa .
Because of these possible irritant effects and a potential for worsening of the underlying disease , caution should be used when ACTONEL is given to patients with active upper gastrointestinal problems ( such as known Barrett ’ s esophagus , dysphagia , other esophageal diseases , gastritis , duodenitis or ulcers ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Information for Patients ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
Esophageal adverse experiences , such as esophagitis , esophageal ulcers and esophageal erosions , occasionally with bleeding and rarely followed by esophageal stricture or perforation , have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates .
In some cases , these have been severe and required hospitalization .
Physicians should therefore be alert to any signs or symptoms signaling a possible esophageal reaction and patients should be instructed to discontinue ACTONEL and seek medical attention if they develop dysphagia , odynophagia , retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn .
The risk of severe esophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who lie down after taking oral bisphosphonates and / or who fail to swallow it with the recommended full glass ( 6 - 8 oz ) of water , and / or who continue to take oral bisphosphonates after developing symptoms suggestive of esophageal irritation .
Therefore , it is very important that the full dosing instructions are provided to , and understood by , the patient [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
In patients who cannot comply with dosing instructions due to mental disability , therapy with ACTONEL should be used under appropriate supervision .
There have been post - marketing reports of gastric and duodenal ulcers with oral bisphosphonate use , some severe and with complications , although no increased risk was observed in controlled clinical trials .
5 . 2 Mineral Metabolism Hypocalcemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism should be effectively treated before starting ACTONEL therapy .
Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients , especially in patients with Paget ’ s disease in whom bone turnover is significantly elevated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Information for Patients ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) , which can occur spontaneously , is generally associated with tooth extraction and / or local infection with delayed healing , and has been reported in patients taking bisphosphonates , including ACTONEL .
Known risk factors for osteonecrosis of the jaw include invasive dental procedures ( e . g . , tooth extraction , dental implants , boney surgery ) , diagnosis of cancer , concomitant therapies ( e . g . , chemotherapy , corticosteroids ) , poor oral hygiene , and co - morbid disorders ( e . g . , periodontal and / or other pre - existing dental disease , anemia , coagulopathy , infection , ill - fitting dentures ) .
For patients requiring invasive dental procedures , discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment may reduce the risk for ONJ .
Clinical judgment of the treating physician and / or oral surgeon should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit / risk assessment .
Patients who develop osteonecrosis of the jaw while on bisphosphonate therapy should receive care by an oral surgeon .
In these patients , extensive dental surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate the condition .
Discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered based on individual benefit / risk assessment .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] 5 . 4 Musculoskeletal Pain In postmarketing experience , there have been reports of severe and occasionally incapacitating bone , joint , and / or muscle pain in patients taking bisphosphonates [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug .
Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping medication .
A subset had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate .
Consider discontinuing use if severe symptoms develop .
5 . 5 Renal Impairment ACTONEL is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
5 . 6 Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis Before initiating ACTONEL treatment for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis , the sex steroid hormonal status of both men and women should be ascertained and appropriate replacement considered .
5 . 7 Laboratory Test Interactions Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone - imaging agents .
Specific studies with ACTONEL have not been performed .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported in > 10 % of patients treated with ACTONEL and with a higher frequency than placebo are : back pain , arthralgia , abdominal pain , and dyspepsia ( 6 . 1 ) .
Hypersensitivity reactions ( angioedema , generalized rash , bullous skin reactions ) , and eye inflammation ( iritis , uveitis ) have been reported rarely ( 6 . 2 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Warner Chilcott at 1 - 800 - 836 - 0658 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety of ACTONEL 5 mg once daily in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in four randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled multinational trials of 3232 women aged 38 to 85 years with postmenopausal osteoporosis .
The duration of the trials was up to three years , with 1619 patients exposed to placebo and 1613 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg .
Patients with pre - existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors , and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials .
All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus vitamin D supplementation up to 500 IU per day if their 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 level was below normal at baseline .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 2 . 0 % in the placebo group and 1 . 7 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 24 . 6 % in the placebo group and 27 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 15 . 6 % in the placebo group and 14 . 8 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
Table 1 lists adverse events from the Phase 3 postmenopausal osteoporosis trials reported in ≥ 5 % of patients .
Adverse events are shown without attribution of causality .
Table 1 Adverse Events Occurring at a Frequency ≥ 5 % in Either Treatment Group Combined Phase 3 Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Treatment TrialsBody System Placebo N = 1619 5 mg ACTONEL N = 1613 % % Body as a Whole Infection 29 . 9 31 . 1 Back Pain 26 . 1 28 . 0 Accidental Injury 16 . 8 16 . 9 Pain 14 . 0 14 . 1 Abdominal Pain 9 . 9 12 . 2 Flu Syndrome 11 . 6 10 . 5 Headache 10 . 8 9 . 9 Asthenia 4 . 5 5 . 4 Neck Pain 4 . 7 5 . 4 Chest Pain 5 . 1 5 . 0 Allergic Reaction 5 . 9 3 . 8 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 9 . 8 10 . 5 Digestive System Constipation 12 . 6 12 . 9 Diarrhea 10 . 0 10 . 8 Dyspepsia 10 . 6 10 . 8 Nausea 11 . 2 10 . 5 Metabolic & Nutritional Disorders Peripheral Edema 8 . 8 7 . 7 Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 22 . 1 23 . 7 Arthritis 10 . 1 9 . 6 Traumatic Bone Fracture 12 . 3 9 . 3 Joint Disorder 5 . 3 7 . 0 Myalgia 6 . 2 6 . 7 Bone Pain 4 . 8 5 . 3 Nervous System Dizziness 5 . 7 7 . 1 Depression 6 . 1 6 . 8 Insomnia 4 . 6 5 . 0 Respiratory System Bronchitis 10 . 4 10 . 0 Sinusitis 9 . 1 8 . 7 Rhinitis 5 . 1 6 . 2 Pharyngitis 5 . 0 6 . 0 Increased Cough 6 . 3 5 . 9 Skin and Appendages Rash 7 . 1 7 . 9 Special Senses Cataract 5 . 7 6 . 5 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 10 . 4 11 . 1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events : The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg daily groups were : abdominal pain ( 9 . 9 % vs . 12 . 2 % ) , diarrhea ( 10 . 0 % vs . 10 . 8 % ) , dyspepsia ( 10 . 6 % vs . 10 . 8 % ) , and gastritis ( 2 . 3 % vs . 2 . 7 % ) .
Duodenitis and glossitis have been reported uncommonly in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group ( 0 . 1 % to 1 % ) .
In patients with active upper gastrointestinal disease at baseline , the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg daily groups .
Musculoskeletal Adverse Events : The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg daily groups were : back pain ( 26 . 1 % vs . 28 . 0 % ) , arthralgia ( 22 . 1 % vs . 23 . 7 % ) , myalgia ( 6 . 2 % vs . 6 . 7 % ) , and bone pain ( 4 . 8 % vs . 5 . 3 % ) .
Laboratory Test Findings : Throughout the Phase 3 studies , transient decreases from baseline in serum calcium ( < 1 % ) and serum phosphate ( < 3 % ) and compensatory increases in serum PTH levels ( < 30 % ) were observed within 6 months in patients in osteoporosis clinical trials treated with ACTONEL 5 mg once daily .
There were no significant differences in serum calcium , phosphate , or PTH levels between placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg once daily at 3 years .
Serum calcium levels below 8 mg / dL were observed in 18 patients , 9 ( 0 . 5 % ) in each treatment arm ( placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg once daily ) .
Serum phosphorus levels below 2 mg / dL were observed in 14 patients , 3 ( 0 . 2 % ) treated with placebo and 11 ( 0 . 6 % ) treated with ACTONEL 5 mg once daily .
There have been rare reports ( < 0 . 1 % ) of abnormal liver function tests .
Endoscopic Findings : In the ACTONEL clinical trials , endoscopic evaluation was encouraged in any patient with moderate - to - severe gastrointestinal complaints , while maintaining the blind .
Endoscopies were performed on equal numbers of patients between the placebo and treated groups [ 75 ( 14 . 5 % ) placebo ; 75 ( 11 . 9 % ) ACTONEL ] .
Clinically important findings ( perforations , ulcers , or bleeding ) among this symptomatic population were similar between groups ( 51 % placebo ; 39 % ACTONEL ) .
Once - a - Week Dosing The safety of ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a 1 - year , double - blind , multicenter study comparing ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 95 years .
The duration of the trials was one year , with 480 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 485 exposed to ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week .
Patients with pre - existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors , and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials .
All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus vitamin D supplementation up to 500 IU per day if their 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 level was below normal at baseline .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 4 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 1 . 0 % in the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 7 . 1 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 8 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 11 . 9 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 11 . 5 % in the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group .
The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Events : The incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group : dyspepsia ( 6 . 9 % vs . 7 . 6 % ) , diarrhea ( 6 . 3 % vs . 4 . 9 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 7 . 3 % vs . 7 . 6 % ) .
Musculoskeletal Adverse Events : Arthralgia was reported in 11 . 5 % of patients in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 14 . 2 % of patients in the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group .
Myalgia was reported by 4 . 6 % of patients in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 6 . 2 % of patients in the ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week group .
Laboratory Test Findings : The mean percent changes from baseline at 12 months were similar between the ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week groups , respectively , for serum calcium ( 0 . 4 % vs . 0 . 7 % ) , phosphate ( - 3 . 8 % vs . - 2 . 6 % ) and PTH ( 6 . 4 % vs . 4 . 2 % ) .
Monthly Dosing Two Consecutive Days per Month The safety of ACTONEL 75 mg administered on two consecutive days per month for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a double - blind , multicenter study in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 86 years .
The duration of the trial was two years ; 613 patients were exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 616 were exposed to ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month .
Patients with pre - existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors , and H2 antagonists were included in this clinical trial .
All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus 400 to 800 IU of vitamin D supplementation per day .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 1 . 0 % for the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 0 . 5 % for the ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 10 . 8 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 14 . 4 % in the ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 14 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 13 . 0 % in the ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month group .
The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar .
Acute Phase Reactions : Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction have been reported with bisphosphonate use .
The overall incidence of acute phase reaction was 3 . 6 % of patients on ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 7 . 6 % of patients on ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month .
These incidence rates are based on reporting of any of 33 acute phase reaction - like symptoms within 5 days of the first dose .
Fever or influenza - like illness with onset within the same period were reported by 0 . 0 % of patients on ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 0 . 6 % of patients on ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Events : The ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month group resulted in a higher incidence of discontinuation due to vomiting ( 1 . 0 % vs . 0 . 2 % ) and diarrhea ( 1 . 0 % vs . 0 . 3 % ) compared to the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
Most of these events occurred within a few days of dosing .
Ocular Adverse Events : None of the patients treated with ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month reported ocular inflammation such as uveitis , scleritis , or iritis ; 1 patient treated with ACTONEL 5 mg daily reported uveitis .
Laboratory Test Findings : When ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month were compared in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , the mean percent changes from baseline at 24 months were 0 . 2 % and 0 . 8 % for serum calcium , - 1 . 9 % and - 1 . 3 % for phosphate , and - 10 . 4 % and - 17 . 2 % for PTH , respectively .
Compared to the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group , ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month resulted in a slightly higher incidence of hypocalcemia at the end of the first month of treatment ( 4 . 5 % vs . 3 . 0 % ) .
Thereafter , the incidence of hypocalcemia with these regimens was similar at approximately 2 % .
Once - a - Month The safety of ACTONEL 150 mg administered once a month for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a double - blind , multicenter study in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 88 years .
The duration of the trial was one year , with 642 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 650 exposed to ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month .
Patients with pre - existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , proton pump inhibitors , and H2 antagonists were included in this clinical trial .
All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus up to 1000 IU of vitamin D supplementation per day .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 5 % for the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 0 . 0 % for the ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 4 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 6 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 9 . 5 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 8 . 6 % in the ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month group .
The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar .
Acute Phase Reactions : Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction have been reported with bisphosphonate use .
The overall incidence of acute phase reaction was 1 . 1 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group and 5 . 2 % in the ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month group .
These incidence rates are based on reporting of any of 33 acute phase reaction - like symptoms within 3 days of the first dose and for a duration of 7 days or less .
Fever or influenza - like illness with onset within the same period were reported by 0 . 2 % of patients on ACTONEL 5 mg daily and 1 . 4 % of patients on ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Events : A greater percentage of patients experienced diarrhea with ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month compared to 5 mg daily ( 8 . 2 % vs . 4 . 7 % , respectively ) .
The ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month group resulted in a higher incidence of discontinuation due to abdominal pain upper ( 2 . 5 % vs . 1 . 4 % ) and diarrhea ( 0 . 8 % vs . 0 . 0 % ) compared to the ACTONEL 5 mg daily regimen .
All of these events occurred within a few days of the first dose .
The incidence of vomiting that led to discontinuation was the same in both groups ( 0 . 3 % vs . 0 . 3 % ) .
Ocular Adverse Events : None of the patients treated with ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month reported ocular inflammation such as uveitis , scleritis , or iritis ; 2 patients treated with ACTONEL 5 mg daily reported iritis .
Laboratory Test Findings : When ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month were compared in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , the mean percent changes from baseline at 12 months were 0 . 1 % and 0 . 3 % for serum calcium , - 2 . 3 % and - 2 . 3 % for phosphate , and 8 . 3 % and 4 . 8 % for PTH , respectively .
Compared to the ACTONEL 5 mg daily regimen , ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month resulted in a slightly higher incidence of hypocalcemia at the end of the first month of treatment ( 0 . 2 % vs . 2 . 2 % ) .
Thereafter , the incidence of hypocalcemia with these regimens was similar at approximately 2 % .
Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety of ACTONEL 5 mg daily in the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
In one study of postmenopausal women aged 37 to 82 years without osteoporosis , the use of estrogen replacement therapy in both placebo - and ACTONEL - treated patients was included .
The duration of the trial was one year , with 259 exposed to placebo and 261 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg .
The second study included postmenopausal women aged 44 to 63 years without osteoporosis .
The duration of the trial was one year , with 125 exposed to placebo and 129 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg .
All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium per day .
In the trial with estrogen replacement therapy , the incidence of all - cause mortality was 1 . 5 % for the placebo group and 0 . 4 % for the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 8 . 9 % in the placebo group and 5 . 4 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 18 . 9 % in the placebo group and 10 . 3 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
Constipation was reported by 1 . 9 % of the placebo group and 6 . 5 % of ACTONEL 5 mg group .
In the second trial , the incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 0 % for both groups .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 17 . 6 % in the placebo group and 9 . 3 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 6 . 4 % in the placebo group and 5 . 4 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
Nausea was reported by 6 . 4 % of patients in the placebo group and 13 . 2 % of patients in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
Once - a - Week Dosing There were no deaths in a 1 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of ACTONEL 35 mg once a week for prevention of bone loss in 278 postmenopausal women without osteoporosis .
More treated subjects on ACTONEL reported arthralgia ( placebo 7 . 8 % ; ACTONEL 13 . 9 % ) , myalgia ( placebo 2 . 1 % ; ACTONEL 5 . 1 % ) , and nausea ( placebo 4 . 3 % ; ACTONEL 7 . 3 % ) than subjects on placebo .
Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men with Osteoporosis In a 2 - year , double - blind , multicenter study , 284 men with osteoporosis were treated with placebo ( N = 93 ) or ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week ( N = 191 ) .
The overall safety and tolerability profile of ACTONEL in men with osteoporosis was similar to the adverse events reported in the ACTONEL postmenopausal osteoporosis clinical trials , with the addition of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( placebo 3 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 5 % ) , nephrolithiasis ( placebo 0 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 3 % ) , and arrhythmia ( placebo 0 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 2 % ) .
Treatment and Prevention of Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis The safety of ACTONEL 5 mg daily in the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis was assessed in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled multinational trials of 344 patients [ male ( 123 ) and female ( 221 ) ] aged 18 to 85 years who had recently initiated oral glucocorticoid therapy ( ≤ 3 months , prevention study ) or were on long - term oral glucocorticoid therapy ( ≥ 6 months , treatment study ) .
The duration of the trials was one year , with 170 patients exposed to placebo and 174 patients exposed to ACTONEL 5 mg daily .
Patients in one study received 1000 mg elemental calcium plus 400 IU of vitamin D supplementation per day ; patients in the other study received 500 mg calcium supplementation per day .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 2 . 9 % in the placebo group and 1 . 1 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 33 . 5 % in the placebo group and 30 . 5 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 8 . 8 % in the placebo group and 7 . 5 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
Back pain was reported in 8 . 8 % of patients in the placebo group and 17 . 8 % of patients in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
Arthralgia was reported in 14 . 7 % of patients in the placebo group and 24 . 7 % of patients in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
Treatment of Paget ’ s Disease ACTONEL has been studied in 392 patients with Paget ’ s disease of bone .
As in trials of ACTONEL for other indications , the adverse experiences reported in the Paget ’ s disease trials have generally been mild or moderate , have not required discontinuation of treatment , and have not appeared to be related to patient age , gender , or race .
The safety of ACTONEL was assessed in a randomized , double - blind , active - controlled study of 122 patients aged 34 to 85 years .
The duration of the trial was 540 days , with 61 patients exposed to ACTONEL and 61 patients exposed to Didronel .
The adverse event profile was similar for ACTONEL and Didronel : 6 . 6 % ( 4 / 61 ) of patients treated with ACTONEL 30 mg daily for 2 months discontinued treatment due to adverse events , compared to 8 . 2 % ( 5 / 61 ) of patients treated with Didronel 400 mg daily for 6 months .
Table 2 lists adverse events reported in ≥ 5 % of ACTONEL - treated patients in Phase 3 Paget ' s disease trials .
Adverse events shown are considered to be possibly or probably causally related in at least one patient .
Table 2 Adverse Events Reported in ≥ 5 % of ACTONEL - Treated Patients * in Phase 3 Paget ' s Disease TrialsBody System 30 mg / day x 2 months ACTONEL % ( N = 61 ) 400 mg / day x 6 months DIDRONEL % ( N = 61 ) * Considered to be possibly or probably causally related in at least one patient .
Body as a Whole Flu Syndrome 9 . 8 1 . 6 Chest Pain 6 . 6 3 . 3 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 19 . 7 14 . 8 Abdominal Pain 11 . 5 8 . 2 Nausea 9 . 8 9 . 8 Constipation 6 . 6 8 . 2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Peripheral Edema 8 . 2 6 . 6 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 32 . 8 29 . 5 Nervous Headache 18 . 0 16 . 4 Dizziness 6 . 6 4 . 9 Skin and Appendages Rash 11 . 5 8 . 2 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events : During the first year of the study ( treatment and nontreatment follow - up ) , the proportion of patients who reported upper gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the treatment groups ; no patients reported severe upper gastrointestinal adverse events .
The incidence of diarrhea was 19 . 7 % in the ACTONEL group and 14 . 8 % in the Didronel group ; none were serious or resulted in withdrawal .
Ocular Adverse Events : Three patients who received ACTONEL 30 mg daily experienced acute iritis in 1 supportive study .
All 3 patients recovered from their events ; however , in 1 of these patients , the event recurred during ACTONEL treatment and again during treatment with pamidronate .
All patients were effectively treated with topical steroids .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and skin reactions have been reported rarely , including angioedema , generalized rash and bullous skin reactions , some severe .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Events Events involving upper gastrointestinal irritation , such as esophagitis and esophageal or gastric ulcers , have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Musculoskeletal Pain Bone , joint , or muscle pain , described as severe or incapacitating , have been reported rarely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Eye Inflammation Reactions of eye inflammation including iritis and uveitis have been reported rarely .
Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported rarely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug - drug interaction studies were performed .
Risedronate is not metabolized and does not induce or inhibit hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzymes ( e . g . Cytochrome P450 ) .
Calcium , antacids , or oral medications containing divalent cations interfere with the absorption of ACTONEL ( 7 . 1 ) .
7 . 1 Calcium Supplements / Antacids Co - administration of ACTONEL and calcium , antacids , or oral medications containing divalent cations will interfere with the absorption of ACTONEL .
7 . 2 Hormone Replacement Therapy One study of about 500 early postmenopausal women has been conducted to date in which treatment with ACTONEL 5 mg daily plus estrogen replacement therapy was compared to estrogen replacement therapy alone .
Exposure to study drugs was approximately 12 to 18 months and the primary endpoint was change in BMD .
If considered appropriate , ACTONEL may be used concomitantly with hormone replacement therapy .
7 . 3 Aspirin / Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Of over 5700 patients enrolled in the ACTONEL Phase 3 osteoporosis studies , aspirin use was reported by 31 % of patients , 24 % of whom were regular users ( 3 or more days per week ) .
Forty - eight percent of patients reported NSAID use , 21 % of whom were regular users .
Among regular aspirin or NSAID users , the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in placebo - treated patients ( 24 . 8 % ) was similar to that in ACTONEL - treated patients ( 24 . 5 % ) .
7 . 4 H2 Blockers and Proton Pump Inhibitors ( PPIs ) Of over 5700 patients enrolled in the ACTONEL Phase 3 osteoporosis studies , 21 % used H2 blockers and / or PPIs .
Among these patients , the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in the placebo - treated patients was similar to that in ACTONEL - treated patients .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ACTONEL is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) ( 5 . 5 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) .
ACTONEL is not indicated for use in pediatric patients ( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of ACTONEL in pregnant women .
ACTONEL should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the mother and fetus .
Bisphosphonates are incorporated into the bone matrix , from which they are gradually released over periods of weeks to years .
The amount of bisphosphonate incorporation into adult bone , and hence , the amount available for release back into the systemic circulation , is directly related to the dose and duration of bisphosphonate use .
There are no data on fetal risk in humans .
However , there is a theoretical risk of fetal harm , predominantly skeletal , if a woman becomes pregnant after completing a course of bisphosphonate therapy .
The impact of variables such as time between cessation of bisphosphonate therapy to conception , the particular bisphosphonate used , and the route of administration ( intravenous versus oral ) on this risk has not been studied .
In animal studies , pregnant rats received risedronate sodium during organogenesis at doses 1 to 26 times the human dose of 30 mg / day .
Survival of neonates was decreased in rats treated during gestation with oral doses approximately 5 times the human dose and body weight was decreased in neonates from dams treated with approximately 26 times the human dose .
The number of fetuses exhibiting incomplete ossification of sternebrae or skull from dams treated with approximately 2 . 5 times the human dose was significantly increased compared to controls .
Both incomplete ossification and unossified sternebrae were increased in rats treated with oral doses approximately 5 times the human dose .
A low incidence of cleft palate was observed in fetuses from female rats treated with oral doses approximately equal to the human dose .
The relevance of this finding to human use of ACTONEL is unclear .
No significant fetal ossification effects were seen in rabbits treated with oral doses approximately 7 times the human dose ( the highest dose tested ) .
However , 1 of 14 litters were aborted and 1 of 14 litters were delivered prematurely .
Similar to other bisphosphonates , treatment during mating and gestation with doses of risedronate sodium approximately the same as the 30 mg / day human dose resulted in periparturient hypocalcemia and mortality in pregnant rats allowed to deliver .
Dosing multiples provided above are based on the recommended human dose of 30 mg / day and normalized using body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Actual animal doses were 3 . 2 , 7 . 1 and 16 mg / kg / day in the rat and 10 mg / kg / day in the rabbit .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Risedronate was detected in feeding pups exposed to lactating rats for a 24 - hour period post - dosing , indicating a small degree of lacteal transfer .
It is not known whether ACTONEL is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ACTONEL , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use ACTONEL is not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of risedronate was assessed in a one - year , randomized , double - blind , placebo controlled study of 143 pediatric patients ( 94 received risedronate ) with osteogenesis imperfecta ( OI ) .
The enrolled population was predominantly patients with mild osteogenesis imperfecta ( 85 % Type - I ) , aged 4 to < 16 years , 50 % male and 82 % Caucasian , with a mean lumbar spine BMD Z - score of - 2 . 08 ( 2 . 08 standard deviations below the mean for age - matched controls ) .
Patients received either a 2 . 5 mg ( ≤ 30 kg body weight ) or 5 mg ( > 30 kg body weight ) daily oral dose .
After one year , an increase in lumbar spine BMD in the risedronate group compared to the placebo group was observed .
However , treatment with risedronate did not result in a reduction in the risk of fracture in pediatric patients with osteogenesis imperfecta .
In ACTONEL - treated subjects , no mineralization defects were noted in paired bone biopsy specimens obtained at baseline and month 12 .
The overall safety profile of risedronate in OI patients treated for up to 12 months was generally similar to that of adults with osteoporosis .
However , there was an increased incidence of vomiting compared to placebo .
In this study , vomiting was observed in 15 % of children treated with risedronate and 6 % of patients treated with placebo .
Other adverse events reported in ≥ 10 % of patients treated with risedronate and with a higher frequency than placebo were : pain in the extremity ( 21 % with risedronate versus 16 % with placebo ) , headache ( 20 % versus 8 % ) , back pain ( 17 % versus 10 % ) , pain ( 15 % versus 10 % ) , upper abdominal pain ( 11 % versus 8 % ) , and bone pain ( 10 % versus 4 % ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the patients receiving ACTONEL in postmenopausal osteoporosis studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , 47 % were between 65 and 75 years of age , and 17 % were over 75 .
The corresponding proportions were 26 % and 11 % in glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis trials , and 40 % and 26 % in Paget ’ s disease trials .
No overall differences in efficacy between geriatric and younger patients were observed in these studies .
In the male osteoporosis trial , 28 % of patients receiving ACTONEL were between 65 and 75 years of age and 9 % were over 75 .
The lumbar spine BMD response for ACTONEL compared to placebo was 5 . 6 % for subjects < 65 years and 2 . 9 % for subjects ≥ 65 years .
No overall differences in safety between geriatric and younger patients were observed in the ACTONEL trials , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment ACTONEL is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) because of lack of clinical experience .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with a creatinine clearance ≥ 30 mL / min .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been performed to assess risedronate ’ s safety or efficacy in patients with hepatic impairment .
Risedronate is not metabolized in human liver preparations .
Dosage adjustment is unlikely to be needed in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Decreases in serum calcium and phosphorus following substantial overdose may be expected in some patients .
Signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia may also occur in some of these patients .
Milk or antacids containing calcium should be given to bind ACTONEL and reduce absorption of the drug .
In cases of substantial overdose , gastric lavage may be considered to remove unabsorbed drug .
Standard procedures that are effective for treating hypocalcemia , including the administration of calcium intravenously , would be expected to restore physiologic amounts of ionized calcium and to relieve signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia .
Lethality after single oral doses was seen in female rats at 903 mg / kg and male rats at 1703 mg / kg .
The minimum lethal dose in mice and rabbits was 4000 mg / kg and 1000 mg / kg , respectively .
These values represent 320 to 620 times the 30 mg human dose based on surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
11 DESCRIPTION ACTONEL ( risedronate sodium ) tablets is a pyridinyl bisphosphonate that inhibits osteoclast - mediated bone resorption and modulates bone metabolism .
Each ACTONEL tablet for oral administration contains the equivalent of 5 , 30 , 35 , 75 , or 150 mg of anhydrous risedronate sodium in the form of the hemi - pentahydrate with small amounts of monohydrate .
The empirical formula for risedronate sodium hemi - pentahydrate is C7H10NO7P2Na • 2 . 5 H2O .
The chemical name of risedronate sodium is [ 1 - hydroxy - 2 - ( 3 - pyridinyl ) ethylidene ] bis [ phosphonic acid ] monosodium salt .
The chemical structure of risedronate sodium hemi - pentahydrate is the following : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Risedronate sodium is a fine , white to off - white , odorless , crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and in aqueous solutions , and essentially insoluble in common organic solvents .
Inactive Ingredients All dose strengths contain : crospovidone , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , silicon dioxide , titanium dioxide .
Dose strength - specific ingredients include : 5 mg — ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate ; 30 mg — lactose monohydrate ; 35 mg — ferric oxide red , ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate ; 75 mg — ferric oxide red ; 150 mg — FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ACTONEL has an affinity for hydroxyapatite crystals in bone and acts as an antiresorptive agent .
At the cellular level , ACTONEL inhibits osteoclasts .
The osteoclasts adhere normally to the bone surface , but show evidence of reduced active resorption ( e . g . , lack of ruffled border ) .
Histomorphometry in rats , dogs , and minipigs showed that ACTONEL treatment reduces bone turnover ( activation frequency , i . e . , the rate at which bone remodeling sites are activated ) and bone resorption at remodeling sites .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics ACTONEL treatment decreases the elevated rate of bone turnover that is typically seen in postmenopausal osteoporosis .
In clinical trials , administration of ACTONEL to postmenopausal women resulted in decreases in biochemical markers of bone turnover , including urinary deoxypyridinoline / creatinine and urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide ( markers of bone resorption ) and serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase ( a marker of bone formation ) .
At the 5 mg dose , decreases in deoxypyridinoline / creatinine were evident within 14 days of treatment .
Changes in bone formation markers were observed later than changes in resorption markers , as expected , due to the coupled nature of bone resorption and bone formation ; decreases in bone - specific alkaline phosphatase of about 20 % were evident within 3 months of treatment .
Bone turnover markers reached a nadir of about 40 % below baseline values by the sixth month of treatment and remained stable with continued treatment for up to 3 years .
Bone turnover is decreased as early as 14 days and maximally within about 6 months of treatment , with achievement of a new steady - state that more nearly approximates the rate of bone turnover seen in premenopausal women .
In a 1 - year study comparing daily versus weekly oral dosing regimens of ACTONEL for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women , ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week decreased urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide by 60 % and 61 % , respectively .
In addition , serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase was also reduced by 42 % and 41 % in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily and ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week groups , respectively .
When postmenopausal women with osteoporosis were treated for 1 year with ACTONEL 5 mg daily or ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month , urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide was decreased by 54 % and 52 % , respectively , and serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase was reduced by 36 % and 35 % , respectively .
In a 1 – year study comparing ACTONEL 5 mg daily versus ACTONEL 150 mg once a month in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis , urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide was decreased by 52 % and 49 % , respectively , and serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase was reduced by 31 % and 32 % , respectively .
Osteoporosis in Men In a 2 - year study of men with osteoporosis , treatment with ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week resulted in a mean decrease from baseline compared to placebo of 16 % ( placebo 20 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 37 % ) for the bone resorption marker urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide , 45 % ( placebo - 6 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 39 % ) for the bone resorption marker serum C - telopeptide , and 27 % ( placebo - 2 % ; ACTONEL 35 mg 25 % ) for the bone formation marker serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase .
Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis Osteoporosis with glucocorticoid use occurs as a result of inhibited bone formation and increased bone resorption resulting in net bone loss .
ACTONEL decreases bone resorption without directly inhibiting bone formation .
In two 1 - year clinical trials in the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis , ACTONEL 5 mg decreased urinary collagen cross - linked N - telopeptide ( a marker of bone resorption ) , and serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase ( a marker of bone formation ) by 50 % to 55 % and 25 % to 30 % , respectively , within 3 to 6 months after initiation of therapy .
Paget ’ s Disease Paget ’ s disease of bone is a chronic , focal skeletal disorder characterized by greatly increased and disordered bone remodeling .
Excessive osteoclastic bone resorption is followed by osteoblastic new bone formation , leading to the replacement of the normal bone architecture by disorganized , enlarged , and weakened bone structure .
In pagetic patients treated with ACTONEL 30 mg daily for 2 months , bone turnover returned to normal in a majority of patients as evidenced by significant reductions in serum alkaline phosphatase ( a marker of bone formation ) , and in urinary hydroxyproline / creatinine and deoxypyridinoline / creatinine ( markers of bone resorption ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Based on simultaneous modeling of serum and urine data , peak absorption after an oral dose is achieved at ~ 1 hour ( Tmax ) and occurs throughout the upper gastrointestinal tract .
The fraction of the dose absorbed is independent of dose over the range studied ( single dose , from 2 . 5 mg to 30 mg ; multiple dose , from 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg ) .
Steady - state conditions in the serum are observed within 57 days of daily dosing .
Mean absolute oral bioavailability of the 30 mg tablet is 0 . 63 % ( 90 % CI : 0 . 54 % to 0 . 75 % ) and is comparable to a solution .
Food Effect The extent of absorption of a 30 mg dose ( three 10 mg tablets ) when administered 0 . 5 hours before breakfast is reduced by 55 % compared to dosing in the fasting state ( no food or drink for 10 hours prior to or 4 hours after dosing ) .
Dosing 1 hour prior to breakfast reduces the extent of absorption by 30 % compared to dosing in the fasting state .
Dosing either 0 . 5 hours prior to breakfast or 2 hours after dinner ( evening meal ) results in a similar extent of absorption .
ACTONEL is effective when administered at least 30 minutes before breakfast .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution for risedronate is 13 . 8 L / kg in humans .
Human plasma protein binding of drug is about 24 % .
Preclinical studies in rats and dogs dosed intravenously with single doses of [ 14 C ] risedronate indicate that approximately 60 % of the dose is distributed to bone .
The remainder of the dose is excreted in the urine .
After multiple oral dosing in rats , the uptake of risedronate in soft tissues was in the range of 0 . 001 % to 0 . 01 % .
Metabolism There is no evidence of systemic metabolism of risedronate .
Excretion In young healthy subjects , approximately half of the absorbed dose of risedronate was excreted in urine within 24 hours , and 85 % of an intravenous dose was recovered in the urine over 28 days .
Based on simultaneous modeling of serum and urine data , mean renal clearance was 105 mL / min ( CV = 34 % ) and mean total clearance was 122 mL / min ( CV = 19 % ) , with the difference primarily reflecting nonrenal clearance or clearance due to adsorption to bone .
The renal clearance is not concentration dependent , and there is a linear relationship between renal clearance and creatinine clearance .
Unabsorbed drug is eliminated unchanged in feces .
In osteopenic postmenopausal women , the terminal exponential half - life was 561 hours , mean renal clearance was 52 mL / min ( CV = 25 % ) , and mean total clearance was 73 mL / min ( CV = 15 % ) .
Specific Populations Pediatric : ACTONEL is not indicated for use in pediatric patients ( see Pediatric Use [ 8 . 4 ] ) .
Gender : Bioavailability and pharmacokinetics following oral administration are similar in men and women .
Geriatric : Bioavailability and disposition are similar in elderly ( > 60 years of age ) and younger subjects .
No dosage adjustment is necessary .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Renal Impairment : Risedronate is excreted unchanged primarily via the kidney .
As compared to persons with normal renal function , the renal clearance of risedronate was decreased by about 70 % in patients with creatinine clearance of approximately 30 mL / min .
ACTONEL is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) because of lack of clinical experience .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with a creatinine clearance ≥ 30 mL / min .
Hepatic Impairment : No studies have been performed to assess risedronate ’ s safety or efficacy in patients with hepatic impairment .
Risedronate is not metabolized in rat , dog , and human liver preparations .
Insignificant amounts ( < 0 . 1 % of intravenous dose ) of drug are excreted in the bile in rats .
Therefore , dosage adjustment is unlikely to be needed in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions : No specific drug - drug interaction studies were performed .
Risedronate is not metabolized and does not induce or inhibit hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzymes ( Cytochrome P450 ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study , rats were administered daily oral doses up to approximately 8 times the maximum recommended human daily dose .
There were no significant drug - induced tumor findings in male or female rats .
The high dose male group was terminated early in the study ( Week 93 ) due to excessive toxicity , and data from this group were not included in the statistical evaluation of the study results .
In an 80 - week carcinogenicity study , mice were administered daily oral doses approximately 6 . 5 times the human dose .
There were no significant drug - induced tumor findings in male or female mice .
Mutagenesis Risedronate did not exhibit genetic toxicity in the following assays : In vitro bacterial mutagenesis in Salmonella and E . coli ( Ames assay ) , mammalian cell mutagenesis in CHO / HGPRT assay , unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes and an assessment of chromosomal aberrations in vivo in rat bone marrow .
Risedronate was positive in a chromosomal aberration assay in CHO cells at highly cytotoxic concentrations ( > 675 mcg / mL , survival of 6 % to 7 % ) .
When the assay was repeated at doses exhibiting appropriate cell survival ( 29 % ) , there was no evidence of chromosomal damage .
Impairment of Fertility In female rats , ovulation was inhibited at an oral dose approximately 5 times the human dose .
Decreased implantation was noted in female rats treated with doses approximately 2 . 5 times the human dose .
In male rats , testicular and epididymal atrophy and inflammation were noted at approximately 13 times the human dose .
Testicular atrophy was also noted in male rats after 13 weeks of treatment at oral doses approximately 5 times the human dose .
There was moderate - to - severe spermatid maturation block after 13 weeks in male dogs at an oral dose approximately 8 times the human dose .
These findings tended to increase in severity with increased dose and exposure time .
Dosing multiples provided above are based on the recommended human dose of 30 mg / day and normalized using body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Actual doses were 24 mg / kg / day in rats , 32 mg / kg / day in mice , and 8 , 16 and 40 mg / kg / day in dogs .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Risedronate demonstrated potent anti - osteoclast , antiresorptive activity in ovariectomized rats and minipigs .
Bone mass and biomechanical strength were increased dose - dependently at daily oral doses up to 4 and 25 times the human recommended oral dose of 5 mg for rats and minipigs , respectively .
Risedronate treatment maintained the positive correlation between BMD and bone strength and did not have a negative effect on bone structure or mineralization .
In intact dogs , risedronate induced positive bone balance at the level of the bone remodeling unit at oral doses ranging from 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 times the 5 mg / day human daily dose .
In dogs treated with an oral dose approximately 5 times the human daily dose , risedronate caused a delay in fracture healing of the radius .
The observed delay in fracture healing is similar to other bisphosphonates .
This effect did not occur at a dose approximately 0 . 5 times the human daily dose .
The Schenk rat assay , based on histologic examination of the epiphyses of growing rats after drug treatment , demonstrated that risedronate did not interfere with bone mineralization even at the highest dose tested , which was approximately 3500 times the lowest antiresorptive dose in this model ( 1 . 5 mcg / kg / day ) and approximately 800 times the human daily dose of 5 mg .
This indicates that ACTONEL administered at the therapeutic dose is unlikely to induce osteomalacia .
Dosing multiples provided above are based on the recommended human dose of 5 mg / day and normalized using body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women The fracture efficacy of ACTONEL 5 mg daily in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was demonstrated in 2 large , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind studies that enrolled a total of almost 4000 postmenopausal women under similar protocols .
The Multinational study ( VERT MN ) ( ACTONEL 5 mg , N = 408 ) was conducted primarily in Europe and Australia ; a second study was conducted in North America ( VERT NA ) ( ACTONEL 5 mg , N = 821 ) .
Patients were selected on the basis of radiographic evidence of previous vertebral fracture , and therefore , had established disease .
The average number of prevalent vertebral fractures per patient at study entry was 4 in VERT MN , and 2 . 5 in VERT NA , with a broad range of baseline BMD levels .
All patients in these studies received supplemental calcium 1000 mg / day .
Patients with low 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 levels ( approximately 40 nmol / L or less ) also received supplemental vitamin D 500 IU / day .
Effect on Vertebral Fractures Fractures of previously undeformed vertebrae ( new fractures ) and worsening of pre - existing vertebral fractures were diagnosed radiographically ; some of these fractures were also associated with symptoms ( i . e . , clinical fractures ) .
Spinal radiographs were scheduled annually and prospectively planned analyses were based on the time to a patient ’ s first diagnosed fracture .
The primary endpoint for these studies was the incidence of new and worsening vertebral fractures across the period of 0 to 3 years .
ACTONEL 5 mg daily significantly reduced the incidence of new and worsening vertebral fractures and of new vertebral fractures in both VERT NA and VERT MN at all time points ( Table 3 ) .
The reduction in risk seen in the subgroup of patients who had 2 or more vertebral fractures at study entry was similar to that seen in the overall study population .
Table 3 The Effect of ACTONEL on the Risk of Vertebral Fractures Proportion of Patients with Fracture ( % ) a a Calculated by Kaplan - Meier methodology .
VERT NA Placebo N = 678 ACTONEL 5 mg N = 696 Absolute Risk Reduction ( % ) Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) New and Worsening 0 - 1 Year 7 . 2 3 . 9 3 . 3 49 0 - 2 Years 12 . 8 8 . 0 4 . 8 42 0 - 3 Years 18 . 5 13 . 9 4 . 6 33 New 0 - 1 Year 6 . 4 2 . 4 4 . 0 65 0 - 2 Years 11 . 7 5 . 8 5 . 9 55 0 - 3 Years 16 . 3 11 . 3 5 . 0 41 VERT MN Placebo N = 346 ACTONEL 5 mg N = 344 Absolute Risk Reduction ( % ) Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) New and Worsening 0 - 1 Year 15 . 3 8 . 2 7 . 1 50 0 - 2 Years 28 . 3 13 . 9 14 . 4 56 0 - 3 Years 34 . 0 21 . 8 12 . 2 46 New 0 - 1 Year 13 . 3 5 . 6 7 . 7 61 0 - 2 Years 24 . 7 11 . 6 13 . 1 59 0 - 3 Years 29 . 0 18 . 1 10 . 9 49 Effect on Osteoporosis - Related Nonvertebral Fractures In VERT MN and VERT NA , a prospectively planned efficacy endpoint was defined consisting of all radiographically confirmed fractures of skeletal sites accepted as associated with osteoporosis .
Fractures at these sites were collectively referred to as osteoporosis - related nonvertebral fractures .
ACTONEL 5 mg daily significantly reduced the incidence of nonvertebral osteoporosis - related fractures over 3 years in VERT NA ( 8 % vs . 5 % ; relative risk reduction 39 % ) and reduced the fracture incidence in VERT MN from 16 % to 11 % .
There was a significant reduction from 11 % to 7 % when the studies were combined , with a corresponding 36 % reduction in relative risk .
Figure 1 shows the overall results as well as the results at the individual skeletal sites for the combined studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect on Bone Mineral Density The results of 4 randomized , placebo - controlled trials in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis ( VERT MN , VERT NA , BMD MN , BMD NA ) demonstrate that ACTONEL 5 mg daily increases BMD at the spine , hip , and wrist compared to the effects seen with placebo .
Table 4 displays the significant increases in BMD seen at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , femoral trochanter , and midshaft radius in these trials compared to placebo .
Thus , overall ACTONEL reverses the loss of BMD , a central factor in the progression of osteoporosis .
In both VERT studies ( VERT MN and VERT NA ) , ACTONEL 5 mg daily produced increases in lumbar spine BMD that were progressive over the 3 years of treatment , and were statistically significant relative to baseline and to placebo at 6 months and at all later time points .
Table 4 Mean Percent Increase in BMD from Baseline in Patients Taking ACTONEL 5 mg or Placebo at Endpointa VERT MNb VERT NAb BMD MNc BMD NAc Placebo N = 323 5 mg N = 323 Placebo N = 599 5 mg N = 606 Placebo N = 161 5 mg N = 148 Placebo N = 191 5 mg N = 193 a The endpoint value is the value at the study ' s last time point for all patients who had BMD measured at that time ; otherwise the last post - baseline BMD value prior to the study ' s last time point is used .
b The duration of the studies was 3 years .
c The duration of the studies was 1 . 5 to 2 years .
* BMD of the midshaft radius was measured in a subset of centers in VERT MN ( placebo , N = 222 ; 5 mg , N = 214 ) and VERT NA ( placebo , N = 310 ; 5 mg , N = 306 ) .
ND = analysis not done Lumbar Spine 1 . 0 6 . 6 0 . 8 5 . 0 0 . 0 4 . 0 0 . 2 4 . 8 Femoral Neck - 1 . 4 1 . 6 - 1 . 0 1 . 4 - 1 . 1 1 . 3 0 . 1 2 . 4 Femoral Trochanter - 1 . 9 3 . 9 - 0 . 5 3 . 0 - 0 . 6 2 . 5 1 . 3 4 . 0 Midshaft Radius - 1 . 5 * 0 . 2 * - 1 . 2 * 0 . 1 * ND ND ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week ( N = 485 ) was shown to be non - inferior to ACTONEL 5 mg daily ( N = 480 ) in a 1 - year , double - blind , multicenter study of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis .
In the primary efficacy analysis of completers , the mean increases from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at 1 year were 4 . 0 % ( 3 . 7 , 4 . 3 ; 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] ) in the 5 mg daily group ( N = 391 ) and 3 . 9 % ( 3 . 6 , 4 . 3 ; 95 % CI ) in the 35 mg once - a - week group ( N = 387 ) and the mean difference between 5 mg daily and 35 mg once - a - week was 0 . 1 % ( - 0 . 4 , 0 . 6 ; 95 % CI ) .
The results of the intent - to - treat analysis with the last observation carried forward were consistent with the primary efficacy analysis of completers .
The 2 treatment groups were also similar with regard to BMD increases at other skeletal sites .
In a double - blind , multicenter study of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , treatment with ACTONEL 75 mg two consecutive days per month ( N = 616 ) was shown to be non - inferior to ACTONEL 5 mg daily ( N = 613 ) .
In the primary efficacy analysis of completers , the mean increases from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at 1 year were 3 . 6 % ( 3 . 3 , 3 . 9 ; 95 % CI ) in the 5 mg daily group ( N = 527 ) and 3 . 4 % ( 3 . 1 , 3 . 7 ; 95 % CI ) in the 75 mg two days per month group ( N = 524 ) with a mean difference between groups being 0 . 2 % ( - 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 ; 95 % CI ) .
The results of the intent - to - treat analysis with the last observation carried forward were consistent with the primary efficacy analysis of completers .
The 2 treatment groups were also similar with regard to BMD increases at other skeletal sites .
ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month ( N = 650 ) was shown to be non - inferior to ACTONEL 5 mg daily ( N = 642 ) in a 1 - year , double - blind , multicenter study of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis .
The primary efficacy analysis was conducted in all randomized patients with baseline and post - baseline lumbar spine BMD values ( modified intent - to - treat population ) using last observation carried forward .
The mean increases from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at 1 year were 3 . 4 % ( 3 . 0 , 3 . 8 ; 95 % CI ) in the 5 mg daily group ( N = 561 ) , and 3 . 5 % ( 3 . 1 , 3 . 9 ; 95 % CI ) in the 150 mg once - a - month group ( N = 578 ) with a mean difference between groups being - 0 . 1 % ( - 0 . 5 , 0 . 3 ; 95 % CI ) .
The results of the completers analysis were consistent with the primary efficacy analysis .
The 2 treatment groups were also similar with regard to BMD increases at other skeletal sites .
Histology / Histomorphometry Bone biopsies from 110 postmenopausal women were obtained at endpoint .
Patients had received placebo or daily ACTONEL ( 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg ) for 2 to 3 years .
Histologic evaluation ( N = 103 ) showed no osteomalacia , impaired bone mineralization , or other adverse effects on bone in ACTONEL - treated women .
These findings demonstrate that bone formed during ACTONEL administration is of normal quality .
The histomorphometric parameter mineralizing surface , an index of bone turnover , was assessed based upon baseline and post - treatment biopsy samples from 21 treated with placebo and 23 patients treated with ACTONEL 5 mg .
Mineralizing surface decreased moderately in ACTONEL - treated patients ( median percent change : placebo , - 21 % ; ACTONEL 5 mg , - 74 % ) , consistent with the known effects of treatment on bone turnover .
Effect on Height In the two 3 - year osteoporosis treatment studies , standing height was measured yearly by stadiometer .
Both ACTONEL and placebo - treated groups lost height during the studies .
Patients who received ACTONEL had a statistically significantly smaller loss of height than those who received placebo .
In VERT MN , the median annual height change was - 2 . 4 mm / yr in the placebo group compared to - 1 . 3 mm / yr in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
In VERT NA , the median annual height change was - 1 . 1 mm / yr in the placebo group compared to - 0 . 7 mm / yr in the ACTONEL 5 mg daily group .
14 . 2 Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women ACTONEL 5 mg daily prevented bone loss in a majority of postmenopausal women ( age range 42 to 63 years ) within 3 years of menopause in a 2 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 383 patients ( ACTONEL 5 mg , N = 129 ) .
All patients in this study received supplemental calcium 1000 mg / day .
Increases in BMD were observed as early as 3 months following initiation of ACTONEL treatment .
ACTONEL 5 mg daily produced significant mean increases in BMD at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , and trochanter compared to placebo at the end of the study ( Figure 2 ) .
ACTONEL 5 mg daily was also effective in patients with lower baseline lumbar spine BMD ( more than 1 SD below the premenopausal mean ) and in those with normal baseline lumbar spine BMD .
Bone mineral density at the distal radius decreased in both ACTONEL and placebo - treated women following 1 year of treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week prevented bone loss in postmenopausal women ( age range 44 to 64 years ) without osteoporosis in a 1 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 278 patients ( ACTONEL 35 mg , N = 136 ) .
All patients were supplemented with 1000 mg elemental calcium and 400 IU vitamin D per day .
The primary efficacy measure was the percent change in lumbar spine BMD from baseline after 1 year of treatment using LOCF ( last observation carried forward ) .
ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week resulted in a statistically significant mean difference from placebo in lumbar spine BMD of + 2 . 9 % ( least square mean for placebo - 1 . 05 % ; risedronate + 1 . 83 % ) .
ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week also showed a statistically significant mean difference from placebo in BMD at the total proximal femur of + 1 . 5 % ( placebo - 0 . 53 % ; risedronate + 1 . 01 % ) , femoral neck of + 1 . 2 % ( placebo - 1 . 00 % ; risedronate + 0 . 22 % ) , and trochanter of + 1 . 8 % ( placebo - 0 . 74 % ; risedronate + 1 . 07 % ) .
Combined Administration with Hormone Replacement Therapy The effects of combining ACTONEL 5 mg daily with conjugated estrogen 0 . 625 mg daily ( N = 263 ) were compared to the effects of conjugated estrogen alone ( N = 261 ) in a 1 - year , randomized , double - blind study of women ages 37 to 82 years , who were on average 14 years postmenopausal .
The BMD results for this study are presented in Table 5 .
Table 5 Percent Change from Baseline in BMD After 1 Year of Treatment Estrogen 0 . 625 mg N = 261 ACTONEL 5 mg + Estrogen 0 . 625 mg N = 263 Values shown are mean ( ± SEM ) percent change from baseline .
Lumbar Spine 4 . 6 ± 0 . 20 5 . 2 ± 0 . 23 Femoral Neck 1 . 8 ± 0 . 25 2 . 7 ± 0 . 25 Femoral Trochanter 3 . 2 ± 0 . 28 3 . 7 ± 0 . 25 Midshaft Radius 0 . 4 ± 0 . 14 0 . 7 ± 0 . 17 Distal Radius 1 . 7 ± 0 . 24 1 . 6 ± 0 . 28 Histology / Histomorphometry Bone biopsies from 53 postmenopausal women were obtained at endpoint .
Patients had received ACTONEL 5 mg plus estrogen or estrogen alone once daily for 1 year .
Histologic evaluation ( N = 47 ) demonstrated that the bone of patients treated with ACTONEL plus estrogen was of normal lamellar structure and normal mineralization .
The histomorphometric parameter mineralizing surface , a measure of bone turnover , was assessed based upon baseline and post - treatment biopsy samples from 12 patients treated with ACTONEL plus estrogen and 12 treated with estrogen alone .
Mineralizing surface decreased in both treatment groups ( median percent change : ACTONEL plus estrogen , - 79 % ; estrogen alone , - 50 % ) , consistent with the known effects of these agents on bone turnover .
14 . 3 Men with Osteoporosis The effects of ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week on BMD were examined in a 2 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multinational study in 285 men with osteoporosis ( ACTONEL , N = 192 ) .
The patients had a mean age of 60 . 6 years ( range 36 to 84 years ) and 95 % were Caucasian .
At baseline , mean lumbar spine T - score was - 3 . 2 and mean femoral neck T - score was - 2 . 4 .
All patients in the study had either , 1 ) a BMD T - score ≤ - 2 at the femoral neck and ≤ - 1 at the lumbar spine , or 2 ) a BMD T - score ≤ - 1 at the femoral neck and ≤ - 2 . 5 at the lumbar spine .
All patients were supplemented with calcium 1000 mg / day and vitamin D 400 to 500 IU / day .
ACTONEL 35 mg once - a - week produced significant mean increases in BMD at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , trochanter , and total hip compared to placebo after 2 years of treatment ( treatment difference : lumbar spine , 4 . 5 % ; femoral neck , 1 . 1 % ; trochanter , 2 . 2 % ; total proximal femur , 1 . 5 % ) .
14 . 4 Glucocorticoid - Induced Osteoporosis Bone Mineral Density Two 1 - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials in patients who were taking ≥ 7 . 5 mg / day of prednisone or equivalent demonstrated that ACTONEL 5 mg daily was effective in the prevention and treatment of glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis in men and women who were either initiating or continuing glucocorticoid therapy .
The efficacy of ACTONEL therapy for glucocorticoid - induced osteoporosis beyond one year has not been studied .
The prevention study enrolled 228 patients ( ACTONEL 5 mg , N = 76 ) ( 18 to 85 years of age ) , each of whom had initiated glucocorticoid therapy ( mean daily dose of prednisone 21 mg ) within the previous 3 months ( mean duration of use prior to study 1 . 8 months ) for rheumatic , skin , and pulmonary diseases .
The mean lumbar spine BMD was normal at baseline ( average T - score - 0 . 7 ) .
All patients in this study received supplemental calcium 500 mg / day .
By the third month of treatment , and continuing through the year - long treatment , the placebo group experienced losses in BMD at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , and trochanter , while BMD was maintained or increased in the ACTONEL 5 mg group .
At each skeletal site there were statistically significant differences between the placebo group and the ACTONEL 5 mg group at all timepoints ( Months 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 ) .
The treatment differences increased with continued treatment .
Although BMD increased at the distal radius in the ACTONEL 5 mg group compared to the placebo group , the difference was not statistically significant .
The differences between placebo and ACTONEL 5 mg after 1 year were 3 . 8 % at the lumbar spine , 4 . 1 % at the femoral neck , and 4 . 6 % at the trochanter , as shown in Figure 3 .
The results at these skeletal sites were similar to the overall results when the subgroups of men and postmenopausal women , but not premenopausal women , were analyzed separately .
ACTONEL was effective at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , and trochanter regardless of age ( < 65 vs . ≥ 65 ) , gender , prior and concomitant glucocorticoid dose , or baseline BMD .
Positive treatment effects were also observed in patients taking glucocorticoids for a broad range of rheumatologic disorders , the most common of which were rheumatoid arthritis , temporal arteritis , and polymyalgia rheumatica .
The treatment study of similar design enrolled 290 patients ( ACTONEL 5 mg , N = 100 ) ( 19 to 85 years of age ) with continuing , long - term ( ≥ 6 months ) use of glucocorticoids ( mean duration of use prior to study 60 months ; mean daily dose of prednisone 15 mg ) for rheumatic , skin , and pulmonary diseases .
The baseline mean lumbar spine BMD was low ( 1 . 63 SD below the young healthy population mean ) , with 28 % of the patients more than 2 . 5 SD below the mean .
All patients in this study received supplemental calcium 1000 mg / day and vitamin D 400 IU / day .
After 1 year of treatment , the BMD of the placebo group was within ± 1 % of baseline levels at the lumbar spine , femoral neck , and trochanter .
ACTONEL 5 mg increased BMD at the lumbar spine ( 2 . 9 % ) , femoral neck ( 1 . 8 % ) , and trochanter ( 2 . 4 % ) .
The differences between ACTONEL and placebo were 2 . 7 % at the lumbar spine , 1 . 9 % at the femoral neck , and 1 . 6 % at the trochanter as shown in Figure 4 .
The differences were statistically significant for the lumbar spine and femoral neck , but not at the femoral trochanter .
ACTONEL was similarly effective on lumbar spine BMD regardless of age ( < 65 vs . ≥ 65 ) , gender , or pre - study glucocorticoid dose .
Positive treatment effects were also observed in patients taking glucocorticoids for a broad range of rheumatologic disorders , the most common of which were rheumatoid arthritis , temporal arteritis , and polymyalgia rheumatica .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vertebral Fractures In the prevention study of patients initiating glucocorticoids , the incidence of vertebral fractures at 1 year was reduced from 17 % in the placebo group to 6 % in the ACTONEL group .
In the treatment study of patients continuing glucocorticoids , the incidence of vertebral fractures was reduced from 15 % in the placebo group to 5 % in the ACTONEL group ( Figure 5 ) .
The statistically significant reduction in vertebral fracture incidence in the analysis of the combined studies corresponded to an absolute risk reduction of 11 % and a relative risk reduction of 70 % .
All vertebral fractures were diagnosed radiographically ; some of these fractures also were associated with symptoms ( i . e . , clinical fractures ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Histology / Histomorphometry Bone biopsies from 40 patients on glucocorticoid therapy were obtained at endpoint .
Patients had received placebo or daily ACTONEL ( 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg ) for 1 year .
Histologic evaluation ( N = 33 ) showed that bone formed during treatment with ACTONEL was of normal lamellar structure and normal mineralization , with no bone or marrow abnormalities observed .
The histomorphometric parameter mineralizing surface , a measure of bone turnover , was assessed based upon baseline and post - treatment biopsy samples from 10 patients treated with ACTONEL 5 mg .
Mineralizing surface decreased 24 % ( median percent change ) in these patients .
Only a small number of placebo - treated patients had both baseline and post - treatment biopsy samples , precluding a meaningful quantitative assessment .
14 . 5 Treatment of Paget ’ s Disease The efficacy of ACTONEL was demonstrated in 2 clinical studies involving 120 men and 65 women .
In a double - blind , active - controlled study of patients with moderate - to - severe Paget ’ s disease ( serum alkaline phosphatase levels of at least 2 times the upper limit of normal ) , patients were treated with ACTONEL 30 mg daily for 2 months or Didronel ® ( etidronate disodium ) 400 mg daily for 6 months .
At Day 180 , 77 % ( 43 / 56 ) of ACTONEL - treated patients achieved normalization of serum alkaline phosphatase levels , compared to 10 . 5 % ( 6 / 57 ) of patients treated with Didronel ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
At Day 540 , 16 months after discontinuation of therapy , 53 % ( 17 / 32 ) of ACTONEL - treated patients and 14 % ( 4 / 29 ) of Didronel - treated patients with available data remained in biochemical remission .
During the first 180 days of the active - controlled study , 85 % ( 51 / 60 ) of ACTONEL - treated patients demonstrated a ≥ 75 % reduction from baseline in serum alkaline phosphatase excess ( difference between measured level and midpoint of the normal range ) with 2 months of treatment compared to 20 % ( 12 / 60 ) in the Didronel - treated group with 6 months of treatment ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Changes in serum alkaline phosphatase excess over time ( shown in Figure 6 ) were significant following only 30 days of treatment , with a 36 % reduction in serum alkaline phosphatase excess at that time compared to only a 6 % reduction seen with Didronel treatment at the same time point ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Response to ACTONEL therapy was similar in patients with mild to very severe Paget ’ s disease .
Table 6 shows the mean percent reduction from baseline at Day 180 in excess serum alkaline phosphatase in patients with mild , moderate , or severe disease .
Table 6 Mean Percent Reduction from Baseline at Day 180 in Total Serum Alkaline Phosphatase Excess by Disease Severity ACTONEL 30 mg DIDRONEL 400 mg Subgroup : Baseline Disease Severity ( AP ) n Baseline Serum AP ( U / L ) * Mean % Reduction n Baseline Serum AP ( U / L ) * Mean % Reduction * Values shown are mean ± SEM ; ULN = upper limit of normal .
> 2 , < 3 x ULN 32 271 . 6 ± 5 . 3 - 88 . 1 22 277 . 9 ± 7 . 45 - 44 . 6 ≥ 3 , < 7 x ULN 14 475 . 3 ± 28 . 8 - 87 . 5 25 480 . 5 ± 26 . 44 - 35 . 0 ≥ 7 x ULN 8 1336 . 5 ± 134 . 19 - 81 . 8 6 1331 . 5 ± 167 . 58 - 47 . 2 Response to ACTONEL therapy was similar between patients who had previously received anti - pagetic therapy and those who had not .
In the active - controlled study , 4 patients previously non - responsive to 1 or more courses of anti - pagetic therapy ( calcitonin , Didronel ) responded to treatment with ACTONEL 30 mg daily ( defined by at least a 30 % change from baseline ) .
Each of these patients achieved at least 90 % reduction from baseline in serum alkaline phosphatase excess , with 3 patients achieving normalization of serum alkaline phosphatase levels .
Histomorphometry of the bone was studied in 14 patients with bone biopsies : 9 patients had biopsies from pagetic bone lesions and 5 patients from non - pagetic bone .
Bone biopsy results in non - pagetic bone did not reveal osteomalacia , impairment of bone remodeling , or induction of a significant decline in bone turnover in patients treated with ACTONEL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ACTONEL is available as follows : 5 mg film - coated , oval , yellow tablets with RSN on 1 face and 5 mg on the other .
Bottle of 30 NDC 54868 - 4386 - 0 Bottle of 60 NDC 54868 - 4386 - 1 35 mg film - coated , oval , orange tablets with RSN on 1 face and 35 mg on the other .
Dose pack of 4 NDC 54868 - 4671 - 0 150 mg film - coated , oval , blue tablets with RSN on 1 face and 150 mg on the other .
Dose pack of 1 NDC 54868 - 6069 - 0 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 1 ) ] The patient should be informed to pay particular attention to the dosing instructions as clinical benefits may be compromised by failure to take the drug according to instructions .
Specifically , ACTONEL should be taken at least 30 minutes before the first food or drink of the day other than water .
To facilitate delivery to the stomach , and thus reduce the potential for esophageal irritation , patients should take ACTONEL while in an upright position ( sitting or standing ) with a full glass of plain water ( 6 to 8 oz ) .
Patients should not lie down for 30 minutes after taking the medication [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should not chew or suck on the tablet because of a potential for oropharyngeal irritation .
Patients should be instructed that if they develop symptoms of esophageal disease ( such as difficulty or pain upon swallowing , retrosternal pain or severe persistent or worsening heartburn ) they should consult their physician before continuing ACTONEL .
Patients should be instructed that if they miss a dose of ACTONEL 35 mg once a week , they should take 1 tablet on the morning after they remember and return to taking 1 tablet once a week , as originally scheduled on their chosen day .
Patients should not take 2 tablets on the same day .
If one or both tablets of ACTONEL 75 mg on two consecutive days per month are missed , and the next month ’ s scheduled doses are more than 7 days away , the patient should be instructed as follows : • If both tablets are missed , take one ACTONEL 75 mg tablet in the morning after the day it is remembered and then the other tablet on the next consecutive morning .
• If only one ACTONEL 75 mg tablet is missed , take the missed tablet in the morning after the day it is remembered .
Patients should then return to taking their ACTONEL 75 mg on two consecutive days per month as originally scheduled .
Patients should not take more than two 75 mg tablets within 7 days .
If one or both tablets of ACTONEL 75 mg on two consecutive days per month are missed , and the next month ' s scheduled doses are within 7 days , patients should wait until their next month ’ s scheduled doses and then continue taking ACTONEL 75 mg on two consecutive days per month as originally scheduled .
If the dose of ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month is missed , and the next month ’ s scheduled dose is more than 7 days away , the patient should be instructed to take the missed tablet in the morning after the day it is remembered .
Patients should then return to taking their ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month as originally scheduled .
Patients should not take more than one 150 mg tablet within 7 days .
If the dose of ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month is missed , and the next month ' s scheduled dose is within 7 days , patients should wait until their next month ’ s scheduled dose and then continue taking ACTONEL 150 mg once - a - month as originally scheduled .
Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Calcium supplements or calcium - , aluminum - , and magnesium - containing medications may interfere with the absorption of ACTONEL and should be taken at a different time of the day , as with food .
Weight - bearing exercise should be considered along with the modification of certain behavioral factors , such as excessive cigarette smoking , and / or alcohol consumption , if these factors exist .
Physicians should instruct their patients to read the Patient Information before starting therapy with ACTONEL 5 mg , 35 mg , 75 mg , or 150 mg and to re - read it each time the prescription is renewed .
Patients should be reminded to give all of their health care providers an accurate medication history .
Instruct patients to tell all of their health care providers that they are taking ACTONEL .
Patients should be instructed that any time they have a medical problem they think may be from ACTONEL , they should talk to their doctor .
Covered under one or more of U . S . Patent Nos . 5 , 583 , 122 ; 5 , 994 , 329 ; 6 , 015 , 801 ; 6 , 096 , 342 ; 6 , 165 , 513 ; 6 , 410 , 520 ; 6 , 432 , 932 ; 6 , 465 , 443 ; and 6 , 562 , 974 .
Mfg . by : Warner Chilcott Puerto Rico LLC , Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 or Norwich Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , North Norwich , NY 13814 or Chinoin Pharmaceutical and Chemical Works Private Co . Ltd Veresegyhaz , Hungary Mkt .
by : Warner Chilcott Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Mason , OH 45040 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 . 1 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient Information ACTONEL ® ( AK - toh - nel ) Tablets ACTONEL ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 5 mg , ACTONEL ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 35 mg , ACTONEL ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 75 mg , and ACTONEL ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 150 mg for Osteoporosis Read this information carefully before you start to use your medicine .
Read the information you get every time you get more medicine .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions or are not sure about something , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about ACTONEL ?
ACTONEL may cause problems in your stomach and esophagus ( the tube that connects the mouth and the stomach ) , such as trouble swallowing ( dysphagia ) , heartburn ( esophagitis ) , and ulcers .
You might feel pain in your bones , joints , or muscles ( See “ What are the Possible Side Effects of ACTONEL ? ” )
.
You must follow the instructions exactly for ACTONEL to work and to lower the chance of serious side effects .
( See “ How should I take ACTONEL ? ” )
.
What is ACTONEL ?
ACTONEL is a prescription medicine used : • to prevent and treat osteoporosis in postmenopausal women .
• to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis .
• to prevent and treat osteoporosis in men and women that is caused by treatment with steroid medicines such as prednisone .
• to treat Paget ’ s disease of bone in men and women .
The treatment for Paget ’ s disease is very different than for osteoporosis and uses a different dose of ACTONEL .
This leaflet does not cover using ACTONEL for Paget ’ s disease .
If you have Paget ’ s disease , ask your healthcare provider how to use ACTONEL .
ACTONEL may reverse bone loss by stopping more loss of bone and increasing bone strength in most people who take it , even though they won ’ t be able to see or feel a difference .
ACTONEL helps lower the risk of breaking bones ( fractures ) .
Your healthcare provider may measure the thickness ( density ) of your bones or do other tests to check your progress .
Who should not take ACTONEL ?
Do not take ACTONEL if you : • have problems of the esophagus which delay emptying • have low blood calcium ( hypocalcemia ) • cannot sit or stand up for 30 minutes • have kidneys that work poorly • have an allergy to ACTONEL .
The active ingredient in ACTONEL is risedronate sodium .
( See the end of this leaflet for a list of all the ingredients in ACTONEL . )
Tell your doctor before using ACTONEL if : • you are pregnant or may become pregnant .
We do not know if ACTONEL can harm your unborn child .
• you are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
We do not know if ACTONEL can pass through your milk and if it can harm your baby .
• you have kidney problems .
ACTONEL may not be right for you .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
ACTONEL can interact with other medicines .
Keep a list of all the medicines you take .
Show it to all your healthcare providers , including your dentist and pharmacist , each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take ACTONEL ?
The following instructions apply to all patients taking ACTONEL : • Take ACTONEL exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Take ACTONEL first thing in the morning before you eat or drink anything except plain water .
• Take ACTONEL while you are sitting up or standing .
• Take ACTONEL with 6 to 8 ounces ( about 1 cup ) of plain water .
Do not take it with any other drink besides plain water .
• Swallow ACTONEL whole .
Do not chew the tablet or keep it in your mouth to melt or dissolve .
• After taking ACTONEL you must wait at least 30 minutes BEFORE : • lying down .
You may sit , stand , or do normal activities like read the newspaper or take a walk .
• eating or drinking anything except plain water .
• taking vitamins , calcium , or antacids .
Take vitamins , calcium , and antacids at a different time of the day from when you take ACTONEL .
• Keep taking ACTONEL for as long as your healthcare provider tells you .
• For ACTONEL to treat your osteoporosis or keep you from getting osteoporosis , you have to take it exactly as prescribed .
• If you miss a dose of ACTONEL , call your healthcare provider for instructions .
• If you take more than your prescribed dose of ACTONEL , call your healthcare provider right away .
• Your healthcare provider may tell you to take calcium and vitamin D supplements and to exercise .
What is my ACTONEL schedule ?
ACTONEL tablets are made in 4 different dosages ( amounts ) .
How often you should take your tablet depends upon the dosage that your doctor has prescribed ( recommended ) for you .
• 5 mg tablets are yellow .
One tablet should be taken every day in the morning .
• 35 mg tablets are orange .
One tablet should be taken once a week in the morning .
• 75 mg tablets are pink .
One tablet should be taken in the morning two days in a row every month .
• 150 mg tablets are blue .
One tablet should be taken once a month in the morning .
If you miss your dose in the morning , do not take it later in the day .
You should call your healthcare provider for instructions .
What should I avoid while taking ACTONEL ?
• Do not eat or drink anything except water before you take ACTONEL and for at least 30 minutes after you take it .
See “ How should I take ACTONEL ? ”
.
• Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after you take ACTONEL .
• Foods and some vitamin supplements and medicines can stop your body from absorbing ( using ) ACTONEL .
Therefore , do not take anything other than plain water at or near the time you take ACTONEL .
What are the possible side effects of ACTONEL ?
Stop taking ACTONEL and tell your healthcare provider right away if : • swallowing is difficult or painful • you have chest pain • you have very bad heartburn or it doesn ’ t get better Possible serious side effects may include : • esophagus or stomach problems , including ulcers , pain , or trouble swallowing .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have pain or discomfort in your stomach or esophagus .
• low calcium and other mineral disturbances .
If you already have one ( or more ) of these problems , it should be corrected before taking ACTONEL .
• pain in bones , joints or muscles , sometimes severe .
Pain may start as soon as one day or up to several months after starting ACTONEL .
• jaw - bone problems in some people , which may include infection and slower healing after teeth are pulled .
Tell your healthcare providers , including your dentist , right away if you have these symptoms .
Common side effects include the following : • back and joint pain • upset stomach and abdominal ( stomach area ) pain • short - lasting , mild flu - like symptoms , which are reported with the monthly doses and usually get better after the first dose .
Other possible side effects may include : • Allergic and severe skin reactions .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop any symptoms of an allergic reaction including : rash ( with or without blisters ) , hives , or swelling of the face , lips , tongue , or throat .
Get medical help right away if you have trouble breathing or swallowing .
• Eye inflammation .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any eye pain , redness , or if your eyes become more sensitive to light .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ACTONEL ?
• Store ACTONEL between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep ACTONEL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about ACTONEL : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use ACTONEL for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ACTONEL to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
What if I have other questions about ACTONEL ?
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about ACTONEL for osteoporosis .
If you have more questions about ACTONEL , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
They can give you information written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 877 - ACTONEL ( toll - free ) or visit our web site at www . actonel . com .
What are the ingredients of ACTONEL ?
ACTONEL ( active ingredient ) : risedronate sodium .
ACTONEL ( inactive ingredients ) : All dose strengths contain : crospovidone , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , silicon dioxide , titanium dioxide .
Dose - strength specific ingredients include : 5 mg — ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate ; 30 mg — lactose monohydrate ; 35 mg — ferric oxide red , ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate ; 75 mg — ferric oxide red ; 150 mg — FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake .
ACTONEL ® is marketed by : Warner Chilcott Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Mason , OH 45040 March 2010 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Warner Chilcott at 1 - 800 - 836 - 0658 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg label Important Patient Information Actonel ® ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 5 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 35 MG 4 Week Supply ( 4 tablets ) Actonel ® ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 35 mg Rx Only Once - a - Week [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 MG One Month Pack ( 1 tablet ) Actonel ® ( risedronate sodium ) tablets 150 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
