Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of GENTAMICIN CREAM contains gentamicin sulfate equivalent to 1 mg of gentamicin base in a cream base of : methylparaben , butylparaben , stearic acid , cerasynt PA ( propylene glycol monostearate ) , isopropyl myristate , propylene glycol , polysorbate 40 , sorbitol solution and water .
Each gram of GENTAMICIN OINTMENT contains gentamicin sulfate equivalent to 1 mg of gentamicin base in a base of : Light Mineral Oil and White Petrolatum , with 0 . 5 mg methylparaben and 0 . 1 mg propylparaben as preservatives .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY GENTAMICIN , a wide spectrum antibiotic provides highly effective topical treatment in primary and secondary bacterial infections of the skin .
This product may clear infections that have not responded to other topical antibiotic agents .
In impetigo contagiosa and other primary skin infections , treatment with a small amount of GENTAMICIN OINTMENT AND CREAM three to four times daily usually clears the lesions promptly .
In secondary skin infections , the product facilitates the treatment of the underlying dermatosis by controlling the infection .
Bacteria susceptible to the action of GENTAMICIN include sensitive strains of streptococci ( group A beta - hemolytic , alpha - hemolytic ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( coagulase positive , coagulase negative , and some penicillinase - producing strains ) , and the gram - negative bacteria , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Aerobacter aerogens , Escherichia coli , Proteus vulgaris and Klebsiella pneumoniae .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Primary skin infections : Impetigo contagiosa , superficial folliculitis , ecthyma , furunculosis , sycosis barbae , and pyoderma gangrenosum .
Secondary skin infections : Infectious eczematoid dermatitis , pustular acne , pustular psoriasis , infected seborrheic dermatitis , infected contact dermatitis ( including poison ivy ) , infected excoriations , and bacterial superinfections of fungal or viral infections .
NOTE : Gentamicin is a bactericidal agent that is not effective against viruses or fungi in skin infections .
It is useful in the treatment of infected skin cysts and certain other skin abscesses when preceded by incision and drainage to permit adequate contact between the antibiotic and the infecting bacteria .
Good results have been obtained in the treatment of infected stasis and other skin ulcers , infected superficial burns , paronychia , infected insect bites and stings , infected lacerations and abrasions and wounds from minor surgery .
Patients sensitive to neomycin can be treated with GENTAMICIN , although regular observation of patients sensitive to topical antibiotics is advisable when such patients are treated with any topical antibiotic .
GENTAMICIN CREAM is recommended for wet , oozing primary infections , and greasy , secondary infections , such as pustular acne or infected seborrheic dermatitis , and where a water washable cream preparation is desired .
GENTAMICIN OINTMENT helps retain moisture and has been useful in infection on dry eczematous or psoriatic skin .
GENTAMICIN CREAM and OINTMENT have been used successfully in infants over one year of age as well as in adults and children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product , GENTAMICIN OINTMENT AND CREAM is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Use of topical antibiotics occasionally allows overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If this occurs , or if irritation , sensitization , or superinfection develops , treatment with GENTAMICIN should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with dermatoses treated with GENTAMICIN , irritation ( erythema and pruritus ) that did not usually require discontinuance of treatment has been reported in a small percentage of cases .
There was no evidence of irritation or sensitization , however , in any of these patients patch - tested subsequently with gentamicin on normal skin .
Possible photosensitization has been reported in several patients but could not be elicited in these patients by reapplication of gentamicin followed by exposure to ultraviolet radiation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of GENTAMICIN OINTMENT or CREAM should be applied gently to lesions three to four times a day .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired .
In impetigo contagiosa , the crusts should be removed before application of GENTAMICIN OINTMENT or CREAM to permit maximum contact between the antibiotic and the infection .
Care should be exercised to avoid further contamination of the infected skin .
Infected stasis ulcers have responded well to GENTAMICIN under gelatin packing .
HOW SUPPLIED GENTAMICIN CREAM is supplied in 15 gram tube NDC 54868 - 3524 - 0 30 gram tube NDC 54868 - 3524 - 1 Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
MANUFACTURED BY PERRIGO BRONX , NY 10457 1C800 RC J2 Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL GENTAMICIN CREAM 30 gram [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
