This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Triethanolamine • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antibacterial Hydrogen Peroxide 0 . 125 v / v Purpose : Antibacterial Purpose Antibacterial - Antiseptic Use Alcohol wet wipe to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Before using certainly read the label and the instructions .
Avoid direct contact with eyes .
Flammable liquid and vapour .
Keep away from heat , hot surfaces , sparks , open - ames and other ignition sources .
No smoking .
Keep container tightly closed .
Use only non - sparking tools .
Store in a well ventilated place .
Keep cool Do not use • on open skin wounds When using this product Keep out of reach of children , food and animal feeds .
Do not eat , dirnk and smoking .
Follow use instructions to prevent risks on human and environmental health . If contact the skin : This product is produced to contact the skin .
Wash the excess with water .
In case of redness , swelling , itching or burning occurs , get medical help . In case of eye contact : wash the eyes with the clean water at least 15 minutes with the eyes cover open .
If swallowed shake the mouth with water .
Do not induce vomiting .
Immediately apply to the doctor and show him the label of the product .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use wipes as much as needed , used by wiping the hands , between the fingers , all internal and external surfaces and under the nails .
Do not rinse after use .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 30 C ( 86 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , triethanolamin , water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
