Active ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • ▪ arthritis • ▪ simple backache • ▪ strains • ▪ sprains • ▪ bruises Warnings For external use only Do not use • ▪ on wounds or on irritated or damaged skin • ▪ with a heating pad When using this product • ▪ use only as directed • ▪ do not bandage tightly • ▪ avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • ▪ do not expose the area to local heat or to direct sunlight • ▪ rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • ▪ a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • ▪ avoid applying into skin folds Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • ▪ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • ▪ redness is present or excessive skin irritation occurs • ▪ your child experiences severe burning pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions children 5 years of age and older : • ▪ patch may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the backing • ▪ remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • ▪ carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • ▪ once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • ▪ apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • ▪ wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Throw away the patch by folding sticky ends together .
children under 5 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients aluminum hydroxide , cellulose gum , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , methyl acrylate / 2 - ethylhexyl acrylate copolymer , nonoxynol - 30 , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , sodium polyacrylate , sorbitan sesquioleate , starch / acrylic acid graft copolymer sodium salt , talc , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water Principal Display Panel – Pouch Label ICY HOT ® KIDS PAIN RELIEF PATCH FAST ACTING EASY TO APPLY AND REMOVE WEAR UP TO 8 HOURS WITH NATURALLY - SOURCED MENTHOL 5 % DEVELOPED WITH PEDIATRICIANS AGES 5 + CONTAINS 5 PATCHES IN ONE RESEALABLE POUCH 3 - 1 / 8 " x 4 - 5 / 8 " ( 8 cm x 12 cm ) EACH PRODUCT SHOULD BE APPLIED UNDER ADULT SUPERVISION Dist .
by Chattem , Inc . , a Sanofi Company P . O . Box 2219 Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2022 www . icyhot . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
