DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Ointment 5 % contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
See INDICAT IONS AND USAGEfor specific uses .
Lidocaine Ointment 5 % contains lidocaine , which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Composition of Lidocaine Ointment 5 % : acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , ( lidocaine ) 5 % in a water miscible ointment vehicle containing polyethylene glycols .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of action Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Onset of anesthesia Lidocaine Ointment 5 % effects local , topical anesthesia .
The onset of action is 3 to 5 minutes .
It is ineffective when applied to intact skin .
Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 mcg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 to 21 mcg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Lidocaine Ointment 5 % is indicated for production of anesthesia of accessible mucous membranes of the oropharynx .
It is also useful as an anesthetic lubricant for intubation and for the temporary relief of pain associated with minor burns , including sunburn , abrasions of the skin , and insect bites .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of Lidocaine Ointment 5 % .
WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS , PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidocaine Ointment USP , 5 % and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
Lidocaine Ointment 5 % should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
PRECAUTIONS General The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug and / or its metabolites .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical condition .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine Ointment 5 % should be used with caution in patients with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to paraaminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for the management of malignant hyperthermia should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Information for Patients Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
When topical anesthetics are used in the mouth , the patient should be aware that the production topical anesthesia may impair swallowing and thus enhance the danger of aspiration .
For this reason , food should not be ingested for 60 minutes following the use of local anesthetic preparations in the mouth or throat area .
This is particularly important in children because of their frequency of eating .
Numbness of the tongue or buccal mucosa may enhance the danger of unintentional biting trauma .
Food and chewing gum should not be taken while the mouth or throat area is anesthetized .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , isofamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine , Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Use in pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Labor & Delivery Lidocaine is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should Lidocaine Ointment 5 % be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid overdosage when applying Lidocaine Ointment 5 % to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of lidocaine may be increased under such conditions .
See DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central nervous system CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of local anesthetic emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should by evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
The oral LD50 of lidocaine HCI in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 to 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 to 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION When Lidocaine Ointment 5 % is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Adult A single application should not exceed 5 g of Lidocaine Ointment 5 % , containing 250 mg of lidocaine base ( equivalent chemically to approximately 300 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride ) .
This is roughly equivalent to squeezing a six ( 6 ) inch length of ointment from the tube .
In a 70 kg adult this dose equals 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 mg / lb ) lidocaine base .
No more than one - half tube , approximately 17 to 20 g of ointment or 850 to 1000 mg lidocaine base , should be administered in any one day .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with Lidocaine Ointment 5 % is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
Dosage for children It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ' s rule ) .
For example a child of five years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 to 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ' s rule .
In any case , the maximum amount of lidocaine administered should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
Administration For medical use , apply topically for adequate control of symptoms .
The use of a sterile gauze pad is suggested for application to broken skin tissue .
Apply to the tube prior to intubation .
In dentistry , apply to previously dried oral mucosa .
Subsequent removal of excess saliva with cotton rolls or saliva ejector minimizes dilution of the ointment , permits maximum penetration , and minimizes the possibility of swallowing the topical ointment .
For use in connection with the insertion of new dentures , apply to all denture surfaces contacting mucosa .
IMPORTANT : Patients should consult a dentist at intervals not exceeding 48 hours throughout the fitting period .
HOW SUPPLIED It is available as follows : • 35 . 44 g laminate tubes with a child - resistant cap 55700 - 681 - 35 • 50 g laminate tubes with a child - resistant cap , NDC 55700 - 681 - 50 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories 1733 Gilsinn Lane , Fenton , MO 63026 Manufactured for : Alkem Laboratories Limited H . O . : ALKEM HOUSE , Senapati Bapat Marg , Lower Parel , Mumbai – 400 013 , INDIA Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : 05 / 2018 150026 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
