Drug Facts Active ingredient Stannous Fluoride 0 . 454 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v Fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity , Antihypersensitivity Uses Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact • aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use • Keep out of reach of children under 12 years of age .
If more than amount used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Adult and children 12 years & older : apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush • brush teeth thoroughly for at least one minute , twice a day ( morning and evening ) and not more than 3 times a day or as recommended by a dentist or physician .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
• minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• Children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information Products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate tooth brushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
Store at room temperature 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrated silica , treated water , PEG - 8 , PEG - 32 , sodium lauryl sulphate , tetrasodium pyrophosphate , flavor , trisodium phosphate , titanium dioxide , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin , xanthan gum , polyacrylic acid , benzyl alcohol Since 1903 TOOTHPASTE WITH FLUORIDE • For sensitive teeth and cavity protection • Great for everyday use Brushing twice a day with Rexall ™ Restore & Defend Sensitive Toothpaste helps repair sensitive teeth and protect against painful sensitivity .
• Provides daily relief & protection for sensitive teeth * • Contains fluoride for cavity protection • Removes stains for whiter teeth • Freshens breath 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed !
( 888 ) 309 - 9030 * With brushing twice daily DISTRIBUTED BY OLD EAST MAIN CO . 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 PRODUCT OF INDIA Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
