PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefoxitin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefoxitin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION : Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Cefoxitin for Injection , USP is a semi - synthetic , broad - spectrum cepha antibiotic for intravenous administration .
It is derived from cephamycin C , which is produced by Streptomyces lactamdurans .
Its chemical name is sodium ( 6 R , 7 S ) - 3 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 7 - methoxy - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - thienyl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylate carbamate ( ester ) .
The empirical formula is C16H16N3NaO7S2 , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cefoxitin for Injection contains approximately 53 . 8 mg ( 2 . 3 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefoxitin .
Solutions of Cefoxitin for Injection , USP range from colorless to light amber in color .
The pH of freshly constituted solutions usually ranges from 4 . 2 to 7 . 0 .
BEFORE ADMINISTRATION , THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION USING STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 MG PER ML AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 ML OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION AND INFUSED INTRAVENOUSLY .
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT INTENDED TO BE USED IN PEDIATRIC AND RENALLY IMPAIRED PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE LESS THAN A 1 GRAM DOSE .
Each SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package contains sterile Cefoxitin Sodium , USP equivalent to 100 grams of cefoxitin and is intended for intravenous infusion only .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED BEFORE USE .
RECONSITITUTED BULK SOLUTION SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
CEFOXITIN FOR INJECTION , USP SMARTPAK ® PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE LESS THAN A 1 GRAM DOSE OF CEFOXTIN .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Pharmacology Following an intravenous dose of 1 gram of cefoxitin , serum concentrations were 110 mcg / mL at 5 minutes , declining to less than 1 mcg / mL at 4 hours .
The half - life after an intravenous dose is 41 to 59 minutes .
Approximately 85 percent of cefoxitin is excreted unchanged by the kidneys over a 6 - hour period , resulting in high urinary concentrations .
Probenecid slows tubular excretion and produces higher serum levels and increases the duration of measurable serum concentrations .
Cefoxitin passes into pleural and joint fluids and is detectable in antibacterial concentrations in bile .
In a published study of geriatric patients ranging in age from 64 to 88 years with normal renal function for their age ( creatinine clearance ranging from 31 . 5 to 174 mL / min ) , the half - life for cefoxitin ranged from 51 to 90 minutes , resulting in higher plasma concentrations than in younger adults .
These changes were attributed to decreased renal function associated with the aging process .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cefoxitin is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Cefoxitin has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to cefoxitin is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Cefoxitin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Gram - positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) Staphylococcus epidermidis ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) Streptococcus agalactiae Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes Gram - negative bacteria Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella spp .
Morganella morganii Neisseria gonorrhoeae Proteus mirabilis Proteus vulgaris Providencia spp .
Anaerobic bacteria Clostridium spp .
Peptococcus niger Peptostreptococcus spp .
Bacteroides distasonis Bacteroides fragilis Bacteroides ovatus Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron Bacteroides spp .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for cefoxitin .
However , the efficacy of cefoxitin in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well - controlled studies .
Gram - negative bacteria Eikenella corrodens [ non - ß - lactamase producers ] Anaerobic bacteria Clostridium perfringens Prevotella bivia Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interprevtive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC INDICATIONS AND USAGE : To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefoxitin and other antibacterial drugs , Cefoxitin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Treatment Cefoxitin for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below .
• Lower respiratory tract infections , including pneumonia and lung abscess , caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , other streptococci ( excluding enterococci , e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis [ formerly Streptococcus faecalis ] ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Haemophilus influenzae , and Bacteroides species .
• Urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , Proteus vulgaris and Providencia species ( including P . rettgeri ) .
• Intra - abdominal infections , including peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess , caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Bacteroides species including Bacteroides fragilis , and Clostridium species .
• Gynecological infections , including endometritis , pelvic cellulitis , and pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Escherichia coli , Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) , Bacteroides species including B . fragilis , Clostridium species , Peptococcus niger , Peptostreptococcus species , and Streptococcus agalactiae .
Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , like cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when Cefoxitin for Injection , USP is used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and C . trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate anti - chlamydial coverage should be added .
• Septicemia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , and Bacteroides species including B . fragilis .
• Bone and joint infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) .
• Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes and other streptococci ( excluding enterococci e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis [ formerly Streptococcus faecalis ] ) , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella species , Bacteroides species including B . fragilis , Clostridium species , Peptococcus niger , and Peptostreptococcus species .
Appropriate culture and susceptibility studies should be performed to determine the susceptibility of the causative organisms to cefoxitin .
Therapy may be started while awaiting the results of these studies .
In randomized comparative studies , cefoxitin and cephalothin were comparably safe and effective in the management of infections caused by gram - positive cocci and gram - negative rods susceptible to the cephalosporins .
Cefoxitin has a high degree of stability in the presence of bacterial beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases .
Many infections caused by aerobic and anaerobic gram - negative bacteria resistant to some cephalosporins respond to cefoxitin .
Similarly , many infections caused by aerobic and anaerobic bacteria resistant to some penicillin antibiotics ( ampicillin , carbenicillin , penicillin G ) respond to treatment with cefoxitin .
Many infections caused by mixtures of susceptible aerobic and anaerobic bacteria respond to treatment with cefoxitin .
Prevention Cefoxitin for Injection , USP is indicated for the prophylaxis of infection in patients undergoing uncontaminated gastrointestinal surgery , vaginal hysterectomy , abdominal hysterectomy , or cesarean section .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for culture should be obtained for identification of the causative organism so that appropriate treatment may be instituted .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Cefoxitin for Injection is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to cefoxitin and the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS : BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFOXITIN IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFOXITIN , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN WITH CAUTION TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFOXITIN OCCURS , DISCONTINUE THE DRUG .
SERIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefoxitin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary , since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS : General This formulation of Cefoxitin for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bags SmartPak ® should not be used in renally impaired patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
The total daily dose should be reduced when cefoxitin is administered to patients with transient or persistent reduction of urinary output due to renal insufficiency ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , because high and prolonged serum antibiotic concentrations can occur in such individuals from usual doses .
Antibiotics ( including cephalosporins ) should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
As with other antibiotics , prolonged use of cefoxitin may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ' s condition is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Prescribing Cefoxitin for Injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Cefoxitin for Injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefoxitin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefoxitin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests As with any potent antibacterial agent , periodic assessment of organ system functions , including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic , is advisable during prolonged therapy .
Drug Interactions Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of cephalosporins and aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions As with cephalothin , high concentrations of cefoxitin ( > 100 mcg / mL ) may interfere with measurement of serum and urine creatinine levels by the Jaffé reaction , and produce false increases of modest degree in the levels of creatinine reported .
Serum samples from patients treated with cefoxitin should not be analyzed for creatinine if withdrawn within 2 hours of drug administration .
High concentrations of cefoxitin in the urine may interfere with measurement of urinary 17 - hydroxy - corticosteroids by the Porter - Silber reaction , and produce false increases of modest degree in the levels reported .
A false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur .
This has been observed with CLINITEST † reagent tablets .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed with cefoxitin to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential .
Studies in rats treated intravenously with 400 mg / kg of cefoxitin ( approximately three times the maximum recommended human dose ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice at parenteral doses of approximately one to seven and one - half times the maximum recommended human dose did not reveal teratogenic or fetal toxic effects , although a slight decrease in fetal weight was observed .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
In the rabbit , cefoxitin was associated with a high incidence of abortion and maternal death .
This was not considered to be a teratogenic effect but an expected consequence of the rabbit ' s unusual sensitivity to antibiotic - induced changes in the population of the microflora of the intestine .
Nursing Mothers Cefoxitin is excreted in human milk in low concentrations .
Caution should be exercised when cefoxitin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the 1 gram adult dose of cefoxitin .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients from birth to three months of age have not yet been established .
In pediatric patients three months of age and older , higher doses of cefoxitin have been associated with an increased incidence of eosinophilia and elevated SGOT .
Geriatric Use Of the 1 , 775 subjects who received cefoxitin in clinical studies , 424 ( 24 % ) were 65 and over , while 124 ( 7 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and PRECAUTIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Cefoxitin is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following intravenous injection .
Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently .
Local Reactions Thrombophlebitis has occurred with intravenous administration .
Allergic Reactions Rash ( including exfoliative dermatitis and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , urticaria , flushing , pruritus , eosinophilia , fever , dyspnea , and other allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , interstitial nephritis and angioedema have been noted .
Cardiovascular Hypotension .
Gastrointestinal Diarrhea , including documented pseudomembranous colitis , which can appear during or after antibiotic treatment .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Neuromuscular Possible exacerbation of myasthenia gravis .
Blood Eosinophilia , leukopenia including granulocytopenia , neutropenia , anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , and bone marrow depression .
A positive direct Coombs test may develop in some individuals , especially those with azotemia .
Liver Function Transient elevations in SGOT , SGPT , serum LDH , and serum alkaline phosphatase ; and jaundice have been reported .
Renal Function Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in patients with renal impairment who require less than the 1 gram adult dose of cefoxitin .
Elevations in serum creatinine and / or blood urea nitrogen levels have been observed .
As with the cephalosporins , acute renal failure has been reported rarely .
The role of cefoxitin in changes in renal function tests is difficult to assess , since factors predisposing to prerenal azotemia or to impaired renal function usually have been present .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with Cefoxitin for Injection , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics : Urticaria , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , serum sickness - like reactions , abdominal pain , colitis , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , false - positive test for urinary glucose , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , elevated bilirubin , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , prolonged prothrombin time , pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , superinfection , vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
OVERDOSAGE : The acute intravenous LD50 in the adult female mouse and rabbit was about 8 grams / kg and greater than 1 gram / kg , respectively .
The acute intraperitoneal LD50 in the adult rat was greater than 10 grams / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
THE INTENT OF THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS FOR THE PREPARATION OF SOLUTIONS FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY .
BEFORE ADMINISTRATION , THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 MG / ML AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 mL OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION .
THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION USE THIS FORMULATION OF CEFOXITIN ONLY IN PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE A 1 GRAM DOSE .
Treatment Adults Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
The usual adult dosage range is 1 gram to 2 grams every six to eight hours .
Dosage should be determined by susceptibility of the causative organisms , severity of infection , and the condition of the patient ( see Table 1 for dosage guidelines ) .
If C . trachomatis is a suspected pathogen , appropriate anti - chlamydial coverage should be added , because cefoxitin sodium has no activity against this organism .
This formulation of Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Cefoxitin for Injection may be used in patients with reduced renal function with the following dosage adjustments : In adults with renal insufficiency , Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients with renal impairment who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
An initial loading dose of 1 gram to 2 grams may be given .
After a loading dose , the recommendations for maintenance dosage ( Table 2 ) may be used as a guide .
When only the serum creatinine level is available , the following formula ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Males : Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 - age ) 72 x serum creatinine ( mg / 100 mL ) Females : 0 . 85 x above value In patients undergoing hemodialysis , the loading dose of 1 to 2 grams should be given after each hemodialysis , and the maintenance dose should be given as indicated in Table 2 .
Antibiotic therapy for group A beta - hemolytic streptococcal infections should be maintained for at least 10 days to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis .
In staphylococcal and other infections involving a collection of pus , surgical drainage should be carried out where indicated .
Pediatric Patients Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
The recommended dosage in pediatric patients three months of age and older is 80 to 160 mg / kg of body weight per day divided into four to six equal doses .
The higher dosages should be used for more severe or serious infections .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams .
At this time no recommendation is made for pediatric patients from birth to three months of age ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
In pediatric patients with renal insufficiency , the dosage and frequency of dosage should be modified consistent with the recommendations for adults ( see Table 2 ) .
Prevention Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Effective prophylactic use depends on the time of administration .
Cefoxitin for Injection usually should be given one - half to one hour before the operation , which is sufficient time to achieve effective levels in the wound during the procedure .
Prophylactic administration should usually be stopped within 24 hours since continuing administration of any antibiotic increases the possibility of adverse reactions but , in the majority of surgical procedures , does not reduce the incidence of subsequent infection .
For prophylactic use in uncontaminated gastrointestinal surgery , vaginal hysterectomy , or abdominal hysterectomy , the following doses are recommended : Adults : Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
2 grams administered intravenously just prior to surgery ( approximately one - half to one hour before the initial incision ) followed by 2 grams every 6 hours after the first dose for no more than 24 hours .
Pediatric Patients ( 3 months and older ) : 30 to 40 mg / kg doses may be given at the times designated above .
Cesarean section patients : For patients undergoing cesarean section , either a single 2 gram dose administered intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped OR a 3 - dose regimen consisting of 2 grams given intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped followed by 2 grams 4 and 8 hours after the initial dose is recommended .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
Table 1 .
Guidelines for Dosage of Cefoxitin for Injection * Including patients in whom bacteremia is absent or unlikely .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Type of Infection Daily Dosage Frequency and Route Uncomplicated forms * of infections such as pneumonia , urinary tract infection , cutaneous infection 3 to 4 grams 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours I . V . Moderately severe or severe infections 6 to 8 grams 1 gram every 4 hours or 2 grams every 6 to 8 hours I . V . Infections commonly needing antibiotics in higher dosage ( e . g . , gas gangrene ) 12 grams 2 grams every 4 hours or 3 grams every 6 hours I . V . Renal Impairment Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients with renal impairment who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Table 2 .
Maintenance Dosage of Cefoxitin for Injection in Adults with Reduced Renal Function Renal Function Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) Dose ( grams ) Frequency Mild impairment Moderate impairment Severe impairment Essentially no function 50 to 30 29 to 10 9 to 5 < 5 1 to 2 1 to 2 0 . 5 to 1 0 . 5 to 1 Every 8 to 12 hours Every 12 to 24 hours Every 12 to 24 hours Every 24 to 48 hours Cefoxitin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should be used only in patients who require a 1 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than the 1 gram dose of cefoxitin .
Directions for Proper Use of a Pharmacy Bulk Package • NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the hospital pharmacy admixture service only in a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Using aseptic technique , the container closure may be penetrated only one time after reconstitution using a suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage .
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 HOURS from initial reconstitution port closure entry is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations .
This time limit should begin with the introduction of the solvent or diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Discard any unused portion after 4 HOURS .
This pharmacy bulk package is not intended to be dispensed as a unit .
• PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION : DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT , IF THE DRY POWDER IS DARK YELLOW OR BROWN , IF THE SEALS ARE NOT INTACT , OR IF THERE IS ANY OTHER DAMAGE TO THE BAG .
IN SUCH CASES , DISCARD THE BAG IMMEDIATELY .
• After initial reconstitution port entry , use entire contents of the Pharmacy Bulk Package promptly .
Any unused portion must be discarded after 4 HOURS .
• Gather the following items prior to the reconstitution of the product : Appropriate number of bags of Sterile Water for Injection and , depending upon the method of filling , appropriate sterile tubing and adapters .
INSTRUCTION FOR RECONSTITUTION OF THE PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE BAG SmartPak ® The entire contents of the bag and the preparation process ( reconstitution and dilution ) should be completed within 4 hours of initial entry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Document the date and time reconstitution starts in the designated place on the container label .
The entire contents of the bag must be used within 4 hours from the time of initial entry .
• Remove the translucent unthreaded cap from the reconstitution ( smaller ) port and discard it .
• Reconstitute the powder through the reconstitution ( smaller ) port , using Sterile Water for Injection according to the table below .
Table 3 .
RECONSTITUTION TABLE SmartPak ® Bag Size Amount of Sterile Water Approximate Concentration 100 grams 930 mL 100 mg / mL ( 1 gram / 10 mL ) • After reconstitution is complete , remove the transfer needle from the reconstitution port .
• Place the bag on a flat surface of a laminar flow hood and mix for at least 15 minutes by rocking gently from side to side .
CAUTION : To avoid possible leakage caused by the heavy weight of the added water , do not shake vigorously or pull strongly on the bag .
• When foam dissipates , visually inspect the bag to verify the solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow and free of particulate matter .
DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT .
• Unscrew the clear threaded cap from the transfer ( larger ) port and discard it .
Attach sterile tubing and filling adapter unit to the transfer port .
• Reconstituted solution can now be transferred using the transfer port and the filling adapter .
It should be noted that the spike placed into the transfer port of the Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® is NEVER removed during this procedure and that the reconstitution port is self - sealing .
Dilution • Hang the bag from two eyelets .
• Following reconstitution , transfer 10 mL of the reconstituted solution into transfusion bags , each containing 50 mL of one of the compatible solutions below .
Compatible solutions for dilution are the following : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • Dilution should be completed within the 4 hour preparation process .
• When diluted according to the instructions above , cefoxitin is stable for 18 hours at room temperature or for 48 hours if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
After the periods mentioned above , any unused solutions should be discarded .
Administration This formulation of Cefoxitin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® is for intravenous infusion only after reconstitution .
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulates and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Intravenous Administration The intravenous route is preferable for patients with bacteremia , bacterial septicemia , or other severe or life - threatening infections , or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition , trauma , surgery , diabetes , heart failure , or malignancy , particularly if shock is present or impending .
For intermittent intravenous administration : Using an infusion system , a solution containing 1 gram or 2 grams may be given over a period of time through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other intravenous solutions .
However , during infusion of the solution containing cefoxitin , it is advisable to temporarily discontinue administration of any other solutions at the same site .
Solutions of Cefoxitin for Injection , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to aminoglycoside solutions ( e . g . , gentamicin sulfate , tobramycin sulfate , amikacin sulfate ) because of potential interaction .
However , cefoxitin and aminoglycosides may be administered separately to the same patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED : Cefoxitin for Injection , USP is a dry white to off - white powder available in the following SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package : 100 grams * ( 1 Pharmacy Bulk Package ) Product No . 4100 NDC 66288 - 4100 - 1 sold in individual bags .
* Each 100 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package contains sterile cefoxitin sodium equivalent to 100 grams of cefoxitin .
SmartPak ® system components are not made with natural rubber latex .
Special storage instructions Cefoxitin for Injection , USP in the dry state should be stored between 2 - 25 ° C ( 36 - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to temperatures above 50 ° C .
The dry material as well as solutions tend to darken , depending on storage conditions ; product potency , however , is not adversely affected .
CLINICAL STUDIES : A prospective , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial was conducted to determine the efficacy of short - term prophylaxis with cefoxitin in patients undergoing cesarean section who were at high risk for subsequent endometritis because of ruptured membranes .
Patients were randomized to receive either three doses of placebo ( n = 58 ) , a single dose of cefoxitin ( 2 grams ) followed by two doses of placebo ( n = 64 ) , or a three - dose regimen of cefoxitin ( each dose consisting of 2 grams ) ( n = 60 ) , given intravenously , usually beginning at the time of clamping of the umbilical cord , with the second and third doses given 4 and 8 hours post - operatively .
Endometritis occurred in 16 / 58 ( 27 . 6 % ) patients given placebo , 5 / 63 ( 7 . 9 % ) patients given a single dose of cefoxitin , and 3 / 58 ( 5 . 2 % ) patients given three doses of cefoxitin .
The differences between the two groups treated with cefoxitin and placebo with respect to endometritis were statistically significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) in favor of cefoxitin .
The differences between the one - dose and three - dose regimens of cefoxitin were not statistically significant .
Two double - blind , randomized studies compared the efficacy of a single 2 gram intravenous dose of cefoxitin to a single 2 gram intravenous dose of cefotetan in the prevention of surgical site - related infection ( major morbidity ) and non - site - related infections ( minor morbidity ) in patients following cesarean section .
In the first study , 82 / 98 ( 83 . 7 % ) patients treated with cefoxitin and 71 / 95 ( 74 . 7 % ) patients treated with cefotetan experienced no major or minor morbidity .
The difference in the outcomes in this study ( 95 % CI : – 0 . 03 , + 0 . 21 ) was not statistically significant .
In the second study , 65 / 75 ( 86 . 7 % ) patients treated with cefoxitin and 62 / 76 ( 81 . 6 % ) patients treated with cefotetan experienced no major or minor morbidity .
The difference in the outcomes in this study ( 95 % CI : – 0 . 08 , + 0 . 18 ) was not statistically significant .
In clinical trials of patients with intra - abdominal infections due to Bacteroides fragilis group microorganisms , eradication rates at 1 to 2 weeks posttreatment for isolates were in the range of 70 % to 80 % .
Eradication rates for individual species are listed below : Bacteroides distasonis 7 / 10 ( 70 % ) Bacteroides fragilis 26 / 33 ( 79 % ) Bacteroides ovatus 10 / 13 ( 77 % ) B . thetaiotaomicron 13 / 18 ( 72 % ) Smartpak is a registered trademark of Samson Medical Technologies , L . L . C . † Registered trademark of Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc .
Revised 09 / 2019 Printed in USA C4100b Manufactured for : Samson Medical Technologies , LLC Cherry Hill , NJ 08003 Manufactured by : ACS Dobfar S . p . A . 20067 Tribiano ( Milano ) Italy PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Bag Label NDC 66288 - 4100 - 1 Cefoxitin for Injection , USP 100 grams ( ONE HUNDRED GRAMS ) per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
