This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
MEDICINAL INGREDIENTS Ethyl Alcohol , USP 80 % v / v RECOMMENDED USE Antiseptic skin cleanser DURATION OF USE AND RECOMMENDED DOSE : • Children 2 - 11 years • Adolescents 12 - 17 years • Adults 18 years and older : Supervise children when they use this product .
For occasional and personal domestic use .
Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds .
Allow to dry .
CAUTIONS AND WARNINGS : Flammability warning : Keep away from open flame and sources of heat .
For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , call a poison control centre or get medical help right away .
Contraindications : Do not use on children / infants less than 2 years of age ( unless directed by a doctor / physician / health care practitioner / health care provider / health care professional .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask / consult a doctor / physician / health care practitioner / health care provider / health care professional if irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Children 2 - 11 years • Adolescents 12 - 17 years • Adults 18 years and older : Supervise children when they use this product .
For occasional and personal domestic use .
Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds .
Allow to dry .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
