Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions ■ apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • mmediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , ethylhexyl palmitate , sorbitol , polyamide - 8 , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , caprylic / capric triglyceride , triethanolamine , fragrance , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , oleth - 3 , disodium EDTA * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Beiersdorf AG , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 30 .
May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces .
DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID , 30 HUNTER LANE CAMP HILL , PA 17011 www . riteaid . com principal display panel Comapre to Coppertone Sunscreen Lotion Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 30 * SPORT WATER RESISTANT SUNSCREEN LOTION UVA / UVB Sunscreen Wo n't run when you start to sweat Non - greasy Helps prevent sunburn BROAD SpECTRUM SPF 30 NET WT 8 FL .
OZ .
( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
