Ask a doctor before use if you have : * Had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
* Heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness .
* Chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath , sweating , pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders , or lightheadedness * Frequent chest pain .
* Frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn * Unexplained weight loss * Nausea or vomiting * Stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking : • Warfarin ( blood - thinning medicine ) • Prescription antifungal or anti - yeast medicines • Diazepam ( anxiety medicine ) • Digoxin ( heart medicine ) • Tacrolimus ( immune system medicine ) • Atazanavir ( medicine for HIV infection ) Allergy Alert : Do not use if you are allergic to Omeprazole Do not use if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Do not use if capsule blister unit is open or torn In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a Doctor if : * Your heartburn continues or worsens * You need to take his product for more than 14 days * You need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months Do not use if capsule blister unit is open or torn Use Treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) Not intended for immediate relief of heartburn ; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect .
If you have questions of a medical nature , please contact your pharmacist , doctor or health care proffesional • Read the directions , warnings and package insert before use • Keep the carton and package insert .
They contain important information • Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) • Keep product out of high heat and humidity • Protect product from moisture Adults 18 years of age and older : This product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days .
It may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 - Day Course of Treatment • Swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • Take every day for 14 days • Do not take more than 1 capsule a day • Do not chew or crush the capsule • Do not crush capsules in food • Do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • You may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • Do not take more than 14 days or more often than every 4 month unless directed by a doctor Children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information • Read the directions , warnings and package insert before use Diethyl Phthalate , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Disodium Phosphate , Hydroxypropyl Cellulose , Lactose , Hypromellose , Corn Starch , Hypromellose Phthalate , Sucrose Omesec Caps [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
