Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swalowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Contents under pressure do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F Directions • shake well before use • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly onto face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration .
Questions or comments ?
877 - 875 - 5225 , 9 - 5 PST weekdays Every Man Jack sunscreen spray Broad Spectrum SPF 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
