Drug Facts Active ingredient chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose surgical hand scrub healthcare personnel handwash Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • do not use routinely if you have wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms with water • scrub for 3 minutes with 5 ml of solution ( 4 full strokes ) and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital space • a separate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 ml of solution ( 4 full strokes ) and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense 5 ml of solution ( 4 full strokes ) into cupped hands , wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds , and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric add .
cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 453 - 4538 Monday through Friday 8 AM to 5 PM EST WARNING : This product can expose you to coconut oil diethanolamine condensate ( cocamide diethanolamine ) , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information go to www . P65Warnings . ca . gov NDC 17271 - 506 - 02 BD E - Z Scrub Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Antiseptic REF 372416 Foreign Patents and Pantents Pending U . S . Patent 6 , 427 , 875 Chlorhexidine Gluconate 32 fl oz ( 946 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
