Drug Facts Active ingredient chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms under running water for 30 seconds .
Clean fingernails using a nailstick or similar cleaner .
• scrub for 1 . 5 minutes with 8 mL of product ( 6 full pumps ) with or without a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and skin between the fingers • rinse thoroughly under running water for 30 seconds • wash for an additional 1 . 5 minutes with 8 mL of product ( 6 full pumps ) and rinse under running water for 30 seconds • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense 5 mL of product ( 4 full pumps ) into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST • Indications and Usage NDC 0116 - 1022 - 18 DYNA - HEX 2 ® Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Antiseptic Contains : 2 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate With Foaming Pump Distributed By : Xttrium Laboratories , Inc .
Mount Prospect , IL 60056 FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Net Contents : 18 fl oz ( 532 mL ) 2DYN18BTLLBLA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
