Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • do not use routinely if you have wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms with water • scrub for 3 minutes with 3 full pumps ( 5 grams ) of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a seperate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 3 full pumps ( 5 grams ) of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense 3 full pumps ( 5 grams ) of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol Questions of Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST Indications and Usage Dosage and Administration Package / Label Principal Display Panel NDC 0116 - 1060 - 18 DYNA - HEX 4 ® Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Antiseptic Contains : 4 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate Distributed By : Xttrium Laboratories , Inc .
Mount Prospect , IL 60056 FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Net Contents : 18 fl oz ( 532 mL ) 4DYN18BTLLBLB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
