Drug Facts Active Ingredients Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Inactive Ingredients Water , Benzalkonium Chloride , Cetylpyridinium Chloride * Wipe fabric is made of polyester and rayon • Germ Shark is registered with the FDA in the United States .
Uses • Hand wipes to help reduce bacteria that can potentially cause sickness and disease .
For use when soap & water are not available .
• Intended for use on hands , arms and legs Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Use in a well - ventilated area and avoid using near sources of ignition .
Do Not Use • on children under 2 months of age - supervise all use by children • on open skin wounds - keep out of reach of children and pets • for a personal hygiene or as a make - up removing or baby wipe Keep Out of Reach of Children If eaten , swallowed or chewed get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away ( Poison Control in USA : 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) When Using This Product • Avoid contact with eyes and damaged skin , If contact , occurs , rinse thoroughly in running water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , redness or rash occurs for over 72 hours , These may be signs of a serious condition .
Other Information • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Keep away from direct sunlight , heat and flames How to Use : Peel back top cover and remove protective film to access the wipes .
Locate the wipe at the center of the roll and insert its corner through the opening of the cap .
Do NOT push your fingers through the opening .
Replace the cover and snap lid securely shut .
Pull each wipe with a little force .
To keep wipes fresh and moist , close lid after use .
Wipe your hands thoroughly and let dry .
Let hands completely dry before coming in close contact with any open flame .
For best results , clean excessively dirty areas before using wipes .
Please do not flush these wipes .
We recommend that you dispose of them in the trash .
Flushing wipes can cause damaged in plumbing .
Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
