Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Menthol 6 . 0 % Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses : For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscle and joints associated with - simple backache - arthritis - strains - bruises - sprains Warnings For eternal use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame When using this product use only as directed do not bandage tightly or use a heating pad do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
redness is present excessive irritation of the skin develops .
If pregnant or breast feeding , aska health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years : spray directly onto affected area without the need to rub , massage or bandage repeat as necessary , but do not apply more than 4 times daily .
Children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature Inactive Ingredients Eucalyptus oil , isopropyl alcohol , peppermint oil , water Manufactured for : Troy Healthcare , LLC 130 Lions Drive , Hazleton , PA 18202 800 - 201 - PAIN ( 7246 ) www . stopain . com NOTHING LASTS LONGER STOPAIN COLD NO - DRIP , NO - STAIN PAIN RELIEVING SPRAY Immediate , Penetrating Pain Relief From Arthritis Muscle Aches Back Pain 8 fl oz ( 240 ml ) Your purchase benefits the Arthritis Foundation Stopain .
Exactly what it does .
tm Sprays at any Angle Non Greasy Light , pleasant scent Easy to use Works on contact Pharmacist recommended Our pharmacist recommended formulas : Work on contact Provide long - lasting pain relief For more information , visit www . stopain . com today made in USA To report a serious adverse event , contact ( 800 ) 201 PAIN ( 7246 ) Your purchase benefits the Arthritis Foundation For every unit of Stopain ( r ) product sold , Troy Healthcare , LLC will donate a portion of the proceeds to the ARthrits Foundation with a minimum contribution of $ 25 , 000 to help people take control of arthritis .
For information about arthritis , contact the Foundation at 800 - 283 - 7800 or www . arthritis . org .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
