DESCRIPTION SECTION Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets , USP are a solid oral dosage form of potassium chloride .
Each contains 600 mg or 750 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 8 mEq or 10 mEq of potassium in a wax matrix tablet .
Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets , USP are an electrolyte replenisher .
The chemical name is potassium chloride , and the structural formula is KCl .
Potassium chloride , USP is a white , granular powder or colorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
Inactive Ingredients : Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil Type 1 , Ethylcellulose ( 10 cP ) , Ethylcellulose ( 100 cP ) , Silicon Dioxide , Talc , Magnesium Stearate .
The 600 mg tablets also contain Polyvinyl Alcohol , Titanium dioxide , Macrogol / PEG , Talc , FD & C Blue # 1 / Brilliant Blue FCF Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo Carmine Al 3 % - 5 % and the 750 mg tablets also contain of Polyvinyl Alcohol , Titanium dioxide , Macrogol / PEG , Talc , FD & C Yellow # 5 / Tartrazine Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow # 6 / Sunset Yellow FCF Aluminum Lake .
" FDA approved dissolution test specifications differ from USP . "
and " FDA approved acceptance criteria for assay differs from USP test . "
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The potassium ion is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity , the transmission of nerve impulses , the contraction of cardiac , skeletal and smooth muscle and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The potassium chloride in Potassium Chloride extended - release is completely absorbed before it leaves the small intestine .
The wax matrix is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces ; in some instances the empty matrices may be noticeable in the stool .
When the bioavailability of the potassium ion from the Potassium Chloride extended - release is compared to that of a true solution the extent of absorption is similar .
The extended - release properties of Potassium Chloride extended - release are demonstrated by the finding that a significant increase in time is required for renal excretion of the first 50 % of the Potassium Chloride extended - release dose as compared to the solution .
Increased urinary potassium excretion is first observed 1 hour after administration of Potassium Chloride extended - release , reaches a peak at approximately 4 hours , and extends up to 8 hours .
Mean daily steady - state plasma levels of potassium following daily administration of Potassium Chloride extended - release tablets cannot be distinguished from those following administration of potassium chloride solution or from control plasma levels of potassium ion .
Specific Populations Cirrhotics Based on publish literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
In rare circumstances , ( e . g . , patients with renal tubular acidosis ) potassium depletion may be associated with metabolic acidosis and hyperchloremia .
In such patients potassium replacement should be accomplished with potassium salts other than the chloride , such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate , or potassium gluconate .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION BECAUSE OF REPORTS OF INTESTINAL AND GASTRIC ULCERATION AND BLEEDING WITH CONTROLLED - RELEASE POTASSIUM CHLORIDE PREPARATIONS , THESE DRUGS SHOULD BE RESERVED FOR THOSE PATIENTS WHO CANNOT TOLERATE OR REFUSE TO TAKE LIQUID OR EFFERVESCENT POTASSIUM PREPARATIONS , OR FOR PATIENTS WITH WHOM THERE IS A PROBLEM OF COMPLIANCE WITH THESE PREPARATIONS .
• For the treatment of patients with hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in digitalis intoxication , and in patients with hypokalemic familial periodic paralysis .
If hypokalemia is the result of diuretic therapy , consideration should be given to the use of a lower dose of diuretic , which may be sufficient without leading to hypokalemia .
• For the prevention of hypokalemia in patients who would be at particular risk if hypokalemia were to develop , e . g . , digitalized patients or patients with significant cardiac arrhythmias .
The use of potassium salts in patients receiving diuretics for uncomplicated essential hypertension is often unnecessary when such patients have a normal dietary pattern , and when low doses of the diuretic are used .
Serum potassium should be checked periodically , however , and , if hypokalemia occurs , dietary supplementation with potassium - containing foods may be adequate to control milder cases .
In more severe cases and if dose adjustment of the diuretic is ineffective or unwarranted supplementation with potassium salts may be indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on triamterene and amiloride .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following adverse reactions have been identified with use of oral potassium salts .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
There have been reports hyperkalemia and of upper and lower gastrointestinal condition including obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , perforation .
Skin rash has been reported rarely .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION 10 . 1 Symptoms The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ] .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to 12 mEq / L ) .
10 . 2 Treatment Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : Elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and of any agents with potassium - sparing properties .
Intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
Correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
Use of exchange resins , hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
The extended release feature means that absorption and toxic effects may be delayed for hours .
Consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION 2 . 1 Administration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is less than 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
Monitor serum potassium periodically during maintenance therapy to ensure potassium remains in desired range .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis , requires careful attention to acid - base balance , volume status , electrolytes , including magnesium , sodium , chloride , phosphate , and calcium , electrocardiograms , and the clinical status of the patient .
Correct volume status , acid - base balance , and electrolyte deficits as appropriate .
Administration Take Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets , USP with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid .
Do not take Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets , USP on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Swallow tablets whole without crushing , chewing or sucking .
2 . 2 Dosing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Dosages greater than 40 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 40 mEq is given in a single dose .
Treatment of Hypokalemia : Typical dose range is 40 - 100 mEq per day .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose range is 20 mEq per day .
HOW SUPPLIED SECTION Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets , USP 8 mEq [ 600 mg ] are blue colored , circular biconvex film coated tablets plain on one side and debossed " P8 " on another side .
600 mg potassium chloride ( equivalent to 8 mEq ) are available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 64380 - 860 - 06 ) , bottles of 500 ( NDC 64380 - 860 - 07 ) , bottles of 1000 ( NDC 64380 - 860 - 08 ) .
Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets , USP 10 mEq [ 750 mg ] are yellow colored , circular biconvex film coated tablets plain on one side and debossed " P10 " on another side .
750 mg potassium chloride ( equivalent to 10 mEq ) are available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 64380 - 861 - 06 ) , bottles of 500 ( NDC 64380 - 861 - 07 ) , bottles of 1000 ( NDC 64380 - 861 - 08 ) .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP with a child resistant closure .
Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets , USP are supplied as : Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets , USP 8 mEq [ 600 mg ] are blue colored , circular biconvex film coated tablets plain on one side and debossed " P8 " on another side .
Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets , USP 10 mEq [ 750 mg ] are yellow colored , circular biconvex film coated tablets plain on one side and debossed " P10 " on another side .
5 . 1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride can produce ulcerative and / or stenotic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract , particularly if the drug maintains contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa for prolonged periods .
Consider the use of liquid potassium in patients with dysphagia , swallowing disorders , or severe gastrointestinal motility disorders .
If severe vomiting , abdominal pain , distention , or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs , discontinue K - TAB and consider possibility of ulceration , obstruction or perforation .
K - TAB should not be taken on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 1 Triamterene or amiloride Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Concomitant use is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant RAAS inhibitors .
7 . 3 Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) NSAIDS may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and imparing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no human data related to use of Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets , USP during pregnancy , and animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
Potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia is not expected to cause fetal harm .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , so long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Potassium Chloride extended - release did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Cirrhotics Based on publish literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
Patients with cirrhosis should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range , and the serum potassium level should be monitored frequently [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment have reduced urinary excretion of potassium and are at substantially increased risk of hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with impaired renal function , particularly if the patient is on RAAS inhibitors or NSAIDs , should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range because of the potential for development of hyperkalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
The serum potassium level should be monitored frequently .
Renal function should be assessed periodically .
Potassium Chloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 750 mg contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent Inform patients to take each dose with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid , and to not crush , chew , or suck the tablets .
Inform patients that the wax matrix is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces ; in some instances the empty matrices may be noticeable in the stool .
Advise patients seek medical attention if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Manufactured by Strides Shasun Limited .
Bengaluru - 562106 , India .
Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc . , East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Revised 08 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
