Active Ingredients Menthol 3 . 5 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions .
Do not use ■ on wounds ■ on large parts of the body for extended periods of time ■ on irritated or damaged skin ■ if properties of this product change Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have ■ using other medications ■ if pregnant or nursing When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage tightly ■ supervise use by children ■ use caution if prone to allergies ■ check carefully for hypersensitivity ( skin reactions ) ■ avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the patch Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Clean the affected area .
Remove the paper film from the patch , and place the patch on the affected area , so that the direction of stretch is consistent with joint action .
■ adults and children 2 years of age and older : remove the protective film from the plaster .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
■ children under 2 years of age : consult your physician .
Other information ■ keep tightly sealed ■ store at 8 to 30 C ( 46 to 86 F ) , away from sunlight Inactive ingredients angelica sinensis root , cinnamon oil , erycibe ( Erycibe obtusifolia Benth . )
stem , fragrant angelica root , frankincense oleo - gum - resin , ginger rhizome , kadsura pepper [ Piper kadsura ( Choisy ) Ohwi ] stem , lanolin , paprika , petrolatum , rosin , rubber , san - qi ginseng root , stephania ( Stephania sinica Diels . )
root , styrene - isoprene , turmeric rhizome , and zinc oxide on a fabric backing covered with protective paper film .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number Gutong Tiegao Pain Relieving Plaster NDC 68007 - 400 - 01 10 Patches Each Patch 2 . 75 in x 4 in ( 7 cm x 10 cm ) 5 Patches per Pouch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
