Drug Facts Active Ingredients Benzoyl Peroxide - 10 % Purpose Anti - acne Uses For the treatment of Acne .
Reduces the severity of acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads , whiteheads and allows the skin to heal .
Warnings For External Use Only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration Stop use and ask a physician if • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If accidentally swallowed , seek medical help immediately or contact the Poison Control Center .
DIRECTIONS • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• This product contains two parts .
Dispense equal quantities of product from each of the two pumps , then briefly mix the two parts together on your palm .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a physician .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a physician .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Propylene Glycol , Glycerin , Sorbitol , Polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclohexasiloxane , Carbomer , Laureth 7 , Disodium EDTA , Triethanolamine , Diazolidinyl Urea , Methylparaben , Propylbaraben PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Carton AGE INTERVENTION ® DUALITY ™ Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Adult Acne Treatment Cream and Anti - Aging Complex JANMARINI SKIN RESEARCH ® 28 g / 1 oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
