In 5 % Dextrose Injection [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Milrinone lactate injection is a member of a new class of bipyridine inotropic / vasodilator agents with phosphodiesterase inhibitor activity , distinct from digitalis glycosides or catecholamines .
Milrinone lactate is designated chemically as 1 , 6 - dihydro - 2 - methyl - 6 - oxo - [ 3 , 4 ' - bipyridine ] - 5 - carbonitrile lactate and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Milrinone is an off - white to tan crystalline compound with a molecular weight of 211 . 2 and an empirical formula of C12H9N3O .
It is slightly soluble in methanol , and very slightly soluble in chloroform and in water .
As the lactate salt , it is stable and colorless to pale yellow in solution .
Milrinone lactate is available as sterile aqueous solutions of the lactate salt of milrinone for injection or infusion intravenously .
The Flexible Containers provide two ready - to - use dilutions of milrinone in volumes of 100 mL and 200 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection .
Each mL contains milrinone lactate equivalent to 200 mcg milrinone .
The nominal concentration of lactic acid is 0 . 282 mg / mL .
Each mL also contains 49 . 4 mg Dextrose , Anhydrous , USP .
The pH is adjusted to between 3 . 2 and 4 . 0 with lactic acid or sodium hydroxide .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Milrinone is a positive inotrope and vasodilator , with little chronotropic activity different in structure and mode of action from either the digitalis glycosides or catecholamines .
Milrinone , at relevant inotropic and vasorelaxant concentrations , is a selective inhibitor of peak III cAMP phosphodiesterase isozyme in cardiac and vascular muscle .
This inhibitory action is consistent with cAMP mediated increases in intracellular ionized calcium and contractile force in cardiac muscle , as well as with cAMP dependent contractile protein phosphorylation and relaxation in vascular muscle .
Additional experimental evidence also indicates that milrinone is not a beta - adrenergic agonist nor does it inhibit sodium - potassium adenosine triphosphatase activity as do the digitalis glycosides .
Clinical studies in patients with congestive heart failure have shown that milrinone produces dose - related and plasma drug concentration - related increases in the maximum rate of increase of left ventricular pressure .
Studies in normal subjects have shown that milrinone produces increases in the slope of the left ventricular pressure - dimension relationship , indicating a direct inotropic effect of the drug .
Milrinone also produces dose - related and plasma concentration - related increases in forearm blood flow in patients with congestive heart failure , indicating a direct arterial vasodilator activity of the drug .
Both the inotropic and vasodilatory effects have been observed over the therapeutic range of plasma milrinone concentrations of 100 ng / mL to 300 ng / mL .
In addition to increasing myocardial contractility , milrinone improves diastolic function as evidenced by improvements in left ventricular diastolic relaxation .
The acute administration of intravenous milrinone has also been evaluated in clinical trials in excess of 1600 patients , with chronic heart failure , heart failure associated with cardiac surgery , and heart failure associated with myocardial infarction .
The total number of deaths , either on therapy or shortly thereafter ( 24 hours ) was 15 , less than 0 . 9 % , few of which were thought to be drug - related .
Pharmacokinetics Following intravenous injections of 12 . 5 mcg / kg to 125 mcg / kg to congestive heart failure patients , milrinone had a volume of distribution of 0 . 38 liters / kg , a mean terminal elimination half - life of 2 . 3 hours , and a clearance of 0 . 13 liters / kg / hr .
Following intravenous infusions of 0 . 20 mcg / kg / min to 0 . 70 mcg / kg / min to congestive heart failure patients , the drug had a volume of distribution of about 0 . 45 liters / kg , a mean terminal elimination half - life of 2 . 4 hours , and a clearance of 0 . 14 liters / kg / hr .
These pharmacokinetic parameters were not dose - dependent , and the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve following injections was significantly dose - dependent .
Milrinone has been shown ( by equilibrium dialysis ) to be approximately 70 % bound to human plasma protein .
The primary route of excretion of milrinone in man is via the urine .
The major urinary excretions of orally administered milrinone in man are milrinone ( 83 % ) and its 0 - glucuronide metabolite ( 12 % ) .
Elimination in normal subjects via the urine is rapid , with approximately 60 % recovered within the first two hours following dosing and approximately 90 % recovered within the first eight hours following dosing .
The mean renal clearance of milrinone is approximately 0 . 3 liters / min , indicative of active secretion .
Pharmacodynamics In patients with heart failure due to depressed myocardial function , milrinone produced a prompt dose and plasma concentration related increase in cardiac output and decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and vascular resistance , which were accompanied by mild - to - moderate increases in heart rate .
Additionally , there is no increased effect on myocardial oxygen consumption .
In uncontrolled studies , hemodynamic improvement during intravenous therapy with milrinone was accompanied by clinical symptomatic improvement , but the ability of milrinone to relieve symptoms has not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials .
The great majority of patients experience improvements in hemodynamic function within 5 to 15 minutes of the initiation of therapy .
In studies in congestive heart failure patients , milrinone when administered as a loading injection followed by a maintenance infusion produced significant mean initial increases in cardiac index of 25 percent , 38 percent , and 42 percent at dose regimens of 37 . 5 mcg / kg / 0 . 375 mcg / kg / min , 50 mcg / kg / 0 . 50 mcg / kg / min , and 75 mcg / kg / 0 . 75 mcg / kg / min , respectively .
Over the same range of loading injections and maintenance infusions , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure significantly decreased by 20 percent , 23 percent , and 36 percent , respectively , while systemic vascular resistance significantly decreased by 17 percent , 21 percent , and 37 percent .
Mean arterial pressure fell by up to 5 percent at the two lower dose regimens , but by 17 percent at the highest dose .
Patients evaluated for 48 hours maintained improvements in hemodynamic function , with no evidence of diminished response ( tachyphylaxis ) .
A smaller number of patients have received infusions of milrinone for periods up to 72 hours without evidence of tachyphylaxis .
The duration of therapy should depend upon patient responsiveness .
Milrinone has a favorable inotropic effect in fully digitalized patients without causing signs of glycoside toxicity .
Theoretically , in cases of atrial flutter / fibrillation , it is possible that milrinone may increase ventricular response rate because of its slight enhancement of AV node conduction .
In these cases , digitalis should be considered prior to the institution of therapy with milrinone .
Improvement in left ventricular function in patients with ischemic heart disease has been observed .
The improvement has occurred without inducing symptoms or electrocardiographic signs of myocardial ischemia .
The steady - state plasma milrinone concentrations after approximately 6 to 12 hours of unchanging maintenance infusion of 0 . 50 mcg / kg / min are approximately 200 ng / mL .
Near maximum favorable effects of milrinone on cardiac output and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure are seen at plasma milrinone concentrations in the 150 ng / mL to 250 ng / mL range .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Milrinone lactate injection is indicated for the short - term intravenous treatment of patients with acute decompensated heart failure .
Patients receiving milrinone should be observed closely with appropriate electrocardiographic equipment .
The facility for immediate treatment of potential cardiac events , which may include life threatening ventricular arrhythmias , must be available .
The majority of experience with milrinone has been in patients receiving digoxin and diuretics .
There is no experience in controlled trials with infusions of milrinone for periods exceeding 48 hours .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Milrinone lactate is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to it .
WARNINGS Whether given orally or by continuous or intermittent intravenous infusion , milrinone has not been shown to be safe or effective in the longer ( greater than 48 hours ) treatment of patients with heart failure .
In a multicenter trial of 1088 patients with Class III and IV heart failure , long - term oral treatment with milrinone was associated with no improvement in symptoms and an increased risk of hospitalization and death .
In this study , patients with Class IV symptoms appeared to be at particular risk of life - threatening cardiovascular reactions .
There is no evidence that milrinone given by long - term continuous or intermittent infusion does not carry a similar risk .
The use of milrinone both intravenously and orally has been associated with increased frequency of ventricular arrhythmias , including nonsustained ventricular tachycardia .
Long - term oral use has been associated with an increased risk of sudden death .
Hence , patients receiving milrinone should be observed closely with the use of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring to allow the prompt detection and management of ventricular arrhythmias .
PRECAUTIONS General Milrinone should not be used in patients with severe obstructive aortic or pulmonic valvular disease in lieu of surgical relief of the obstruction .
Like other inotropic agents , it may aggravate outflow tract obstruction in hypertrophic subaortic stenosis .
Supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias have been observed in the high - risk population treated .
In some patients , injections of milrinone and oral milrinone have been shown to increase ventricular ectopy , including nonsustained ventricular tachycardia .
The potential for arrhythmia , present in congestive heart failure itself , may be increased by many drugs or combinations of drugs .
Patients receiving milrinone should be closely monitored during infusion .
Milrinone produces a slight shortening of AV node conduction time , indicating a potential for an increased ventricular response rate in patients with atrial flutter / fibrillation which is not controlled with digitalis therapy .
During therapy with milrinone , blood pressure and heart rate should be monitored and the rate of infusion slowed or stopped in patients showing excessive decreases in blood pressure .
If prior vigorous diuretic therapy is suspected to have caused significant decreases in cardiac filling pressure , milrinone should be cautiously administered with monitoring of blood pressure , heart rate , and clinical symptomatology .
There is no experience in controlled trials with infusions of milrinone for periods exceeding 48 hours .
Cases of infusion site reaction have been reported with intravenous milrinone therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Consequently , careful monitoring of the infusion site should be maintained to avoid possible extravasation .
Use in acute myocardial infarction No clinical studies have been conducted in patients in the acute phase of post myocardial infarction .
Until further clinical experience with this class of drugs is gained , milrinone is not recommended in these patients .
Laboratory Tests Fluid and Electrolytes Fluid and electrolyte changes and renal function should be carefully monitored during therapy with milrinone .
Improvement in cardiac output with resultant diuresis may necessitate a reduction in the dose of diuretic .
Potassium loss due to excessive diuresis may predispose digitalized patients to arrhythmias .
Therefore , hypokalemia should be corrected by potassium supplementation in advance of or during use of milrinone .
Drug Interactions No untoward clinical manifestations have been observed in limited experience with patients in whom milrinone was used concurrently with the following drugs : digitalis glycosides ; lidocaine , quinidine ; hydralazine , prazosin ; isosorbide dinitrate , nitroglycerin ; chlorthalidone , furosemide , hydrochlorothiazide , spironolactone ; captopril ; heparin , warfarin , diazepam , insulin ; and potassium supplements .
Chemical Interactions There is an immediate chemical interaction which is evidenced by the formation of a precipitate when furosemide is injected into an intravenous line of an infusion of milrinone .
Therefore , furosemide should not be administered in intravenous lines containing milrinone .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Twenty - four months of oral administration of milrinone to mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( about 50 times the human oral therapeutic dose in a 50 kg patient ) was unassociated with evidence of carcinogenic potential .
Neither was there evidence of carcinogenic potential when milrinone was orally administered to rats at doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( about 6 times the human oral therapeutic dose ) for twenty - four months or at 25 mg / kg / day ( about 30 times the human oral therapeutic dose ) for up to 18 months in males and 20 months in females .
Whereas the Chinese Hamster Ovary Chromosome Aberration Assay was positive in the presence of a metabolic activation system , results from the Ames Test , the Mouse Lymphoma Assay , the Micronucleus Test , and the in vivo Rat Bone Marrow Metaphase Analysis indicated an absence of mutagenic potential .
In reproductive performance studies in rats , milrinone had no effect on male or female fertility at oral doses up to 32 mg / kg / day .
Animal Toxicity Oral and intravenous administration of toxic dosages of milrinone to rats and dogs resulted in myocardial degeneration / fibrosis and endocardial hemorrhage , principally affecting the left ventricular papillary muscles .
Coronary vascular lesions characterized by periarterial edema and inflammation have been observed in dogs only .
The myocardial / endocardial changes are similar to those produced by beta - adrenergic receptor agonists such as isoproterenol , while the vascular changes are similar to those produced by minoxidil and hydralazine .
Doses within the recommended clinical dose range ( up to 1 . 13 mg / kg / day ) for congestive heart failure patients have not produced significant adverse effects in animals .
Pregnancy Oral administration of milrinone to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis produced no evidence of teratogenicity at dose levels up to 40 mg / kg / day and 12 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Milrinone did not appear to be teratogenic when administered intravenously to pregnant rats at doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( about 2 . 5 times the maximum recommended clinical intravenous dose ) or pregnant rabbits at doses up to 12 mg / kg / day , although an increased resorption rate was apparent at both 8 mg / kg / day and 12 mg / kg / day ( intravenous ) in the latter species .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Milrinone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when milrinone is administered to nursing women , since it is not known whether it is excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Use in Elderly Patients There are no special dosage recommendations for the elderly patient .
Ninety percent of all patients administered milrinone in clinical studies were within the age range of 45 to 70 years , with a mean age of 61 years .
Patients in all age groups demonstrated clinically and statistically significant responses .
No age - related effects on the incidence of adverse reactions have been observed .
Controlled pharmacokinetic studies have not disclosed any age - related effects on the distribution and elimination of milrinone .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular Effects In patients receiving milrinone in Phase II and III clinical trials , ventricular arrhythmias were reported in 12 . 1 % : Ventricular ectopic activity , 8 . 5 % ; nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , 2 . 8 % ; sustained ventricular tachycardia , 1 % and ventricular fibrillation , 0 . 2 % ( 2 patients experienced more than one type of arrhythmia ) .
Holter recordings demonstrated that in some patients injection of milrinone increased ventricular ectopy , including nonsustained ventricular tachycardia .
Life - threatening arrhythmias were infrequent and when present have been associated with certain underlying factors such as preexisting arrhythmias , metabolic abnormalities ( e . g . hypokalemia ) , abnormal digoxin levels and catheter insertion .
Milrinone was not shown to be arrhythmogenic in an electrophysiology study .
Supraventricular arrhythmias were reported in 3 . 8 % of the patients receiving milrinone .
The incidence of both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias has not been related to the dose or plasma milrinone concentration .
Other cardiovascular adverse reactions include hypotension , 2 . 9 % and angina / chest pain , 1 . 2 % .
In the post marketing experience , there have been rare cases of " torsades de pointes " reported .
CNS Effects Headaches , usually mild to moderate in severity , have been reported in 2 . 9 % of patients receiving milrinone .
Other Effects Other adverse reactions reported , but not definitely related to the administration of milrinone include hypokalemia , 0 . 6 % ; tremor , 0 . 4 % ; and thrombocytopenia , 0 . 4 % .
Isolated spontaneous reports of bronchospasm and anaphylactic shock have been received ; and in the post - marketing experience , liver function test abnormalities and skin reactions have been reported .
Post - Marketing Adverse Event Reports In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been reported from worldwide post - marketing experience with milrinone : Isolated spontaneous reports of bronchospasm and anaphylactic shock .
Liver function test abnormalities and skin reactions such as rash .
Administration site conditions : Infusion site reaction OVERDOSAGE Doses of milrinone may produce hypotension because of its vasodilator effect .
If this occurs , administration of milrinone should be reduced or temporarily discontinued until the patient ' s condition stabilizes .
No specific antidote is known , but general measures for circulatory support should be taken .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Milrinone should be administered with a loading dose followed by a continuous infusion ( maintenance dose ) according to the following guidelines : LOADING DOSE 50 mcg / kg : Administer slowly over 10 minutes The table below shows the loading dose in milliliters ( mL ) of milrinone ( 1 mg / mL ) by patient body weight ( kg ) .
Loading Dose ( mL ) Using 1 mg / mL ConcentrationPatient Body Weight ( kg ) kg 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 mL 1 . 5 2 2 . 5 3 3 . 5 4 4 . 5 5 5 . 5 6 The loading dose may be given undiluted , but diluting to a rounded total volume of 10 or 20 mL ( see Maintenance Dose for diluents ) may simplify the visualization of the injection rate .
MAINTENANCE DOSE Infusion Rate Total Daily Dose ( 24 Hours ) Minimum 0 . 375 mcg / kg / min 0 . 59 mg / kg Administer as a continuous intravenous infusion .
Standard 0 . 50 mcg / kg / min 0 . 77 mg / kg Maximum 0 . 75 mcg / kg / min 1 . 13 mg / kg The diluents that may be used are 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection USP .
The table below shows the volume of diluent in milliliters ( mL ) that must be used to achieve 200 mcg / mL concentration for infusion , and the resultant total volumes .
Desired Infusion Concentration mcg / mL Milrinone 1 mg / mL ( mL ) Diluent ( mL ) Total Volume ( mL ) 200 10 40 50 200 20 80 100 The infusion rate should be adjusted according to hemodynamic and clinical response .
Patients should be closely monitored .
In controlled clinical studies , most patients showed an improvement in hemodynamic status as evidenced by increases in cardiac output and reductions in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure .
Note : See " Dosage Adjustment in Renally Impaired Patients . "
Dosage may be titrated to the maximum hemodynamic effect and should not exceed 1 . 13 mg / kg / day .
Duration of therapy should depend upon patient responsiveness .
The maintenance dose in mL / hr by patient body weight ( kg ) may be determined by reference to the following table .
Note : Milrinone supplied in 100 mL and 200 mL Flexible Containers ( 200 mcg / mL in 5 % Dextrose Injection ) need not be diluted prior to use .
Milrinone Infusion Rate ( mL / hr ) Using 200 mcg / mL ConcentrationMaintenance Dose ( mcg / kg / min ) Patient Body Weight ( kg ) 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 0 . 375 3 . 4 4 . 5 5 . 6 6 . 8 7 . 9 9 10 . 1 11 . 3 12 . 4 13 . 5 0 . 400 3 . 6 4 . 8 6 7 . 2 8 . 4 9 . 6 10 . 8 12 13 . 2 14 . 4 0 . 500 4 . 5 6 7 . 5 9 10 . 5 12 13 . 5 15 16 . 5 18 0 . 600 5 . 4 7 . 2 9 10 . 8 12 . 6 14 . 4 16 . 2 18 19 . 8 21 . 6 0 . 700 6 . 3 8 . 4 10 . 5 12 . 6 14 . 7 16 . 8 18 . 9 21 23 . 1 25 . 2 0 . 750 6 . 8 9 11 . 3 13 . 5 15 . 8 18 20 . 3 22 . 5 24 . 8 27 When administering milrinone lactate by continuous infusion , it is advisable to use a calibrated electronic infusion device .
The Flexible Container has a concentration of milrinone equivalent to 200 mcg / mL in 5 % Dextrose Injection .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) • Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• Suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete .
Intravenous drug products should be inspected visually and should not be used if particulate matter or discoloration is present .
Dosage Adjustment in Renally Impaired Patients Data obtained from patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance = 0 to 30 mL / min ) but without congestive heart failure have demonstrated that the presence of renal impairment significantly increases the terminal elimination half - life of milrinone .
Reductions in infusion rate may be necessary in patients with renal impairment .
For patients with clinical evidence of renal impairment , the recommended infusion rate can be obtained from the following table : Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) Infusion Rate ( mcg / kg / min ) 5 0 . 20 10 0 . 23 20 0 . 28 30 0 . 33 40 0 . 38 50 0 . 43 HOW SUPPLIED Milrinone Lactate Injection in 5 % Dextrose is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 2776 - 23 10 single - dose 100 mL flexible plastic containers in a case 20 mg / 100 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 2776 - 02 10 single - dose 200 mL flexible plastic containers in a case 40 mg / 200 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) Use only if solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow , and container is undamaged .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1256 - 2 . 0 Revised : 02 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Bag Label 100 mL NDC 0409 - 2776 - 43 Milrinone Lactate in 5 % Dextrose Injection 20 mg / 100 mL ( 200 mcg ( 0 . 2 mg ) per mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
SINGLE - DOSE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS MILRINONE LACTATE EQUIVALENT TO 0 . 2 mg MILRINONE , 0 . 282 mg LACTIC ACID , 49 . 4 mg DEXTROSE , ANHYDROUS , USP , IN WATER FOR INJECTION , USP .
THE pH IS ADJUSTED TO BETWEEN 3 . 2 AND 4 . 0 WITH LACTIC ACID OR SODIUM HYDROXIDE .
NO PRESERVATIVES ADDED .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR , COLORLESS TO PALE YELLOW AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
EACH FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IS FOR ONE INFUSION ONLY .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
RX ONLY IM - 5204 3 V CONTAINS DEHP Hospira DIST .
BY HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Bag Overwrap Label TO OPEN – TEAR AT NOTCH 100 mL NDC 0409 - 2776 - 43 Milrinone Lactate in 5 % Dextrose Injection 20 mg / 100 mL ( 200 mcg ( 0 . 2 mg ) per mL ) For Intravenous Use .
Each mL contains milrinone lactate equivalent to 0 . 2 mg milrinone , 0 . 282 mg lactic acid , 49 . 4 mg dextrose , anhydrous , USP , in water for injection , USP .
The pH is adjusted to between 3 . 2 and 4 . 0 with lactic acid or sodium hydroxide .
No preservatives added .
Use only if solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow , and container is undamaged .
Single - dose container .
Usual dosage : See insert .
Discard unused portion .
Each flexible container is for one infusion only .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
The overwrap is a moisture barrier .
Do not remove unit from overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
Use unit promptly when pouch is opened .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Do not use if overwrap has been previously opened or damaged .
Rx only F WR - 1554 Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mL Bag Label 200 mL NDC 0409 - 2776 - 22 Milrinone Lactate in 5 % Dextrose Injection 40 mg / 200 mL ( 200 mcg ( 0 . 2 mg ) per mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
SINGLE - DOSE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER EACH mL CONTAINS MILRINONE LACTATE EQUIVALENT TO 0 . 2 mg MILRINONE , 0 . 282 mg LACTIC ACID , 49 . 4 mg DEXTROSE , ANHYDROUS , USP , IN WATER FOR INJECTION , USP .
THE pH IS ADJUSTED TO BETWEEN 3 . 2 AND 4 . 0 WITH LACTIC ACID OR SODIUM HYDROXIDE .
NO PRESERVATIVES ADDED .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR , COLORLESS TO PALE YELLOW AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
EACH FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IS FOR ONE INFUSION ONLY .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Rx ONLY 3 V CONTAINS DEHP Hospira DISTRIBUTED BY HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA IM - 5203 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mL Bag Overwrap Label TO OPEN — TEAR AT NOTCH 200 mL NDC 0409 - 2776 - 22 Milrinone Lactate in 5 % Dextrose Injection 40 mg / 200 mL ( 200 mcg ( 0 . 2 mg ) per mL ) For Intravenous Use .
Each mL contains milrinone lactate equivalent to 0 . 2 mg milrinone , 0 . 282 mg lactic acid , 49 . 4 mg dextrose , anhydrous , USP , in water for injection , USP .
The pH is adjusted to between 3 . 2 and 4 . 0 with lactic acid or sodium hydroxide .
No preservatives added .
Use only if solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow , and container is undamaged .
Single - dose container .
Usual dosage : See insert .
Discard unused portion .
Each flexible container is for one infusion only .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
The overwrap is a moisture barrier .
Do not remove unit from overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
Use unit promptly when pouch is opened .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Do not use if overwrap has been previously opened or damaged .
Rx only F WR - 1553 Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
