ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredient : Calcium carbonate 350 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Magnesium hydroxide , L - menthol , Aspartame , Sugar , Povidone , Lactose Hydrate , Spirulina color , Mint flavor , Calcium carboxymethylcellulose , Magnesium stearate PURPOSE Effective for : Relieves : Heartburn , Sour stomach , Acid indigestion , Upset stomach associated with these symptoms WARNINGS 1 .
The following people must consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist before administering the drug .
( 1 ) Patients with kidney disorders ( 2 ) Patients taking other drugs 2 .
Patients must immediately stop adminstration of the drug and consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist if the following symptoms are observed .
Carry these instructions when visiting .
( 1 ) If symptoms of constipation or diarrhea occur while administering this drug ( 2 ) When no improvement is detected after 2 weeks of administration 3 .
Other precautions when administering this drug ( 1 ) Follow the given instructions and dosages ( 2 ) When administering to children , it must be administered under the supervision of a parent or guardian 4 .
Storage directions ( 1 ) Store in places out of the reach of children ( 2 ) Keep away from direct sunlight and store sealed in cool places with low humidity .
( 3 ) Do not store in different containers in order to prevent misuse and preserve quality ( Only store in container if it has been specifically labelled and is not open to misuse ) KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN INDICATIONS AND USAGE adult : take 2 tablets , 4 / 3 tablets for kids 11 to 14 , 1 tablet for kids 8 to 10 , 2 / 3 tablet for kids 5 to 7 , 1 / 2 tablet for kids to 3 to 4 , 3 times a day .
Taken between meals or at bedtime Taking a melt in your mouth and chew .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION adult : take 2 tablets , 4 / 3 tablets for kids 11 to 14 , 1 tablet for kids 8 to 10 , 2 / 3 tablet for kids 5 to 7 , 1 / 2 tablet for kids to 3 to 4 , 3 times a day .
Taken between meals or at bedtime Taking a melt in your mouth and chew .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
