ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Silica 17 % Sodium Monofluorophosphate 0 . 76 % Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate 0 . 5 % Tocopheryl Acetate 0 . 2 % PURPOSE Anti plaque Tooth decay prevention Prevention of plaque Gum care Uses ■ Keep your teeth white and strong .
■ Keep your mouth clean .
■ Refresh the inside of the mouth .
■ Prevents tooth decay caused by fluoride and removes bad breath .
■ Increases aesthetic effect .
■ Removal of plaque ( anti - prag ) ■ Prevention of gingivitis and periodontitis ■ Prevention of periodontal disease and gum disease ■ Prevention of plaque deposition WARNINGS ■ Contains 1000 ppm of fluoride .
■ Do not swallow and rinse mouth thoroughly after use ■ If you experience any problems with your gums or mouth during use , discontinue use and consult your doctor .
■ For children under 6 years of age , use small amounts of toothpaste .
And use it under the supervision of a guardian to avoid sucking or swallowing .
■ Consult a physician or dentist immediately if a child under 6 years old has swallowed large quantities .
■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
Directions ■ Brushing the teeth with a suitable amount Other Information ■ Airtight container , Store in normal temperature ( 1 ~ 30 ℃ ) Questions ■ 02 - 363 - 1502 ■ www . doctorchois . com INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sorbitol , Water , Hydroxyapatite , Cellulose Gum , Xylitol , Sodium Cocoyl , Glutamate , Mentha Pulegium Oil , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Seed Extract , Foeniculum Vulgare Oil , Cooling Flavor , Chitosan , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Fruit Mint Flavor , Mild Mint Flavor , Mentha Viridis ( Spearmint ) Leaf Oil , Pyridoxine HCl , Cinnamomum Zeylanicum bark oil , Sodium Chloride , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Propolis Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Oil , Zinc gluconate , Ubiquinone PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
