This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Hydrogen peroxide , 0 . 13 % w / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Use Uses : Intended for use as a hand sanitizer spray .
Warnings Danger : Highly flammable liquid and vapor .
Keep away from heat , sparks , open flames , and hot surfaces .
No smoking .
Keep container tightly closed .
Use only non - sparking tools .
Take precautions against static discharge .
Wear protective clothes and eye protection .
In case of fire , use fire extinguishers approved for alcohol fires .
In case of ingestion , contact a poison control center .
Discontinue use if irritation or redness develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
Directions Spray about 5 g ( 1 tsp . )
on to one hand and spread over both hands to the wrist .
Rub into the skin until dry .
Repeat .
Other information Keep tightly closed and protected from light .
Store at room temperature .
Conforms to World Health Organization formula for spary hand sanitizers .
Inactive ingredients glycerin , purified water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
