Active Ingredient Aspirin 81 mg ( NSAID * ) * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , contact a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses Temporary relief of minor aches and pains or as recommended by your doctor .
To reduce fever .
Warnings Reye ' s syndrome : Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu - like symptoms should not use this product .
When using this product , if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur , consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye ' s syndrome , a rare but serious illness .
Allergy Alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include hives , facial swelling , asthma ( wheezing ) , shock .
Stomach Bleeding Warning : This product contains NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if the user : - Has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems - Takes a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug - Takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) - Takes more or for a longer time than directed - Is age 60 or older - Has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use : if you are allergic to aspirin or other pain relievers / fever reducers .
For at least 7 days after tonsillectomy or oral surgery unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if : - Stomach bleeding warning applies to user - user has history of stomach problems , such as heartburn - User has high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , or kidney disease - User is taking a diuretic - You have asthma Ask a doctor of pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes , gout , or arthritis .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : - User experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : feels faint , vomits blood , has bloody or black stools , has stomach pain that does not get better - An allergic reaction occurs .
Seek medical help help right away - New symptoms occur - Redness or swelling is present - Pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days - Ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs - You may report side effects to 1 - 888 - 952 - 0050 If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless specifically directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in unborn child or complications during delivery .
Directions Drink a full glass of water with each dose .
Adults and children 12 years and over : take 4 to 8 tablets every 4 hours .
Not to exceed 48 tablets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor .
Children under 12 : consult a doctor Inactive Ingredients corn starch , dextrates , FD C yellow 6 , flavor , saccharin sodium [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
