Rx only For External Use Only - Not for Ophthalmic Use .
DESCRIPTION Diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains the active compound diflorasone diacetate , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatological use .
Chemically , diflorasone diacetate is 6α , 9α - difluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 diacetate , with the empirical formula C26H32F2O7 , a molecular weight of 494 . 5 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg diflorasone diacetate in a cream base consisting of butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , glyceryl stearate / PEG 100 stearate , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohol , mineral oil , monobasic sodium phosphate , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monostearate and vegetable oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , diflorasone diacetate has anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with diflorasone diacetate cream indicate that it is in the high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATION AND USAGE Diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % is a high potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Diflorasone diacetate cream USP is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients receiving a large dose of a higher potency topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH - stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free - cortisol tests .
This product has a greater ability to produce adrenal suppression than does diflorasone diacetate ointment USP , 0 . 05 % .
At 30 g per day ( applied as 15 g twice daily ) diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % was shown to cause inhibition of the HPA axis in one of two patients following application for one week to psoriatic skin .
At 15 g per day ( applied as 7 . 5 g twice daily ) diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % was shown to cause mild inhibition of the HPA axis in one of five patients following application for one week to diseased skin ( psoriasis or atopic dermatitis ) .
These effects were reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
By comparison , diflorasone diacetate ointment USP , 0 . 05 % did not produce significant HPA axis suppression when used in divided doses at 30 g per day for one week in patients with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , diflorasone diacetate cream USP should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of diflorasone diacetate cream USP should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and it should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • The medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• The medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH - stimulation test • A . M . plasma - cortisol test • Urinary free - cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of diflorasone diacetate .
Diflorasone diacetate was not found to be mutagenic in a micronucleus test in rats at dosages of 2400 mg / kg .
Studies in the rat following topical administration at doses up to 0 . 5 mg / kg revealed no effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Diflorasone diacetate has been shown to be teratogenic ( cleft palate ) in rats when applied topically at a dose of approximately 0 . 001 mg / kg / day to the shaven thorax of pregnant animals .
This is approximately 0 . 3 times the human topical dose of diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % .
When pregnant rats were treated topically with approximately 0 . 5 mg / kg / day , uterine deaths were higher in the treated animals than in control animals .
In rabbits , cleft palate was seen when diflorasone diacetate was applied in topical doses as low as 20 mg / kg / day .
In addition , fetal weight was depressed and litter sizes were smaller .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of diflorasone diacetate in pregnant women .
Diflorasone diacetate cream USP should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when diflorasone diacetate cream USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with other topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % should be applied to the affected area twice daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % is available in a 60 g tube , NDC 72919 - 549 - 60 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed .
Mfd .
for : Emerald Therapeutics , LLC , Birmingham , AL 35209 Made in Canada © 2021 Emerald Therapeutics , LLC Issued : September 2021 549111 - 0921 5223175 53 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton NDC 72919 - 549 - 60 60 g Diflorasone Diacetate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
