DESCRIPTION Prazosin hydrochloride , a quinazoline derivative , is the first of a new chemical class of antihypertensives .
It is the hydrochloride salt of 1 - ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) - 4 - ( 2 - furoyl ) piperazine and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prazosin hydrochloride , USP is a white to tan powder , slightly soluble in water and methanol , very slightly soluble in alcohol , practically insoluble in chloroform and acetone and has a molecular weight of 419 . 87 .
Its molecular formula is C19H21N5O4 · HC1 .
Each capsule , for oral administration , contains prazosin hydrochloride equivalent ( as the polyhydrate ) to 1 mg , 2 mg or 5 mg of prazosin .
Each capsule for oral administration contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
The empty gelatin capsules contain black iron oxide , gelatin , red iron oxide , titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
In addition , the 1 mg empty gelatin capsules contain D & C Yellow No . 10 and FD & C Green No . 3 ; the 2 mg empty gelatin capsules contain D & C Red No . 28 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Blue No . 1 and FD & C Red No . 40 ; and the 5 mg empty gelatin capsules contain FD & C Blue No . 1 .
The imprinting ink also contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism of the hypotensive action of prazosin is unknown .
Prazosin causes a decrease in total peripheral resistance and was originally thought to have a direct relaxant action on vascular smooth muscle .
Recent animal studies , however , have suggested that the vasodilator effect of prazosin is also related to blockade of postsynaptic alpha - adrenoceptors .
The results of dog forelimb experiments demonstrate that the peripheral vasodilator effect of prazosin is confined mainly to the level of the resistance vessels ( arterioles ) .
Unlike conventional alpha - blockers , the antihypertensive action of prazosin is usually not accompanied by a reflex tachycardia .
Tolerance has not been observed to develop in long - term therapy .
Hemodynamic studies have been carried out in man following acute single dose administration and during the course of long - term maintenance therapy .
The results confirm that the therapeutic effect is a fall in blood pressure unaccompanied by a clinically significant change in cardiac output , heart rate , renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate .
There is no measurable negative chronotropic effect .
In clinical studies to date , prazosin has not increased plasma renin activity .
In man , blood pressure is lowered in both the supine and standing positions .
This effect is most pronounced on the diastolic blood pressure .
Following oral administration , human plasma concentrations reach a peak at about 3 hours with a plasma half - life of 2 to 3 hours .
The drug is highly bound to plasma protein .
Bioavailability studies have demonstrated that the total absorption relative to the drug in a 20 % alcoholic solution is 90 % , resulting in peak levels approximately 65 % of that of the drug in solution .
Animal studies indicate that prazosin is extensively metabolized , primarily by demethylation and conjugation , and excreted mainly via bile and feces .
Less extensive human studies suggest similar metabolism and excretion in man .
In clinical studies in which lipid profiles were followed , there were generally no adverse changes noted between pre - and post - treatment lipid levels .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs such as diuretics or beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to quinazolines , prazosin or any of the inert ingredients .
WARNINGS As with all alpha - blockers , prazosin hydrochloride may cause syncope with sudden loss of consciousness .
In most cases this is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect , although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe tachycardia with heart rates of 120 to 160 beats per minute .
Syncopal episodes have usually occurred within 30 to 90 minutes of the initial dose of the drug ; occasionally they have been reported in association with rapid dosage increases or the introduction of another antihypertensive drug into the regimen of a patient taking high doses of prazosin .
The incidence of syncopal episodes is approximately 1 % in patients given an initial dose of 2 mg or greater .
Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg , by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly , and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient ’ s regimen with caution ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hypotension may develop in patients given prazosin who are also receiving a beta - blocker such as propranolol .
If syncope occurs , the patient should be placed in the recumbent position and treated supportively as necessary .
This adverse effect is self limiting and in most cases does not recur after the initial period of therapy or during subsequent dose titration .
Patients should always be started on the 1 mg capsules of prazosin hydrochloride .
The 2 mg and 5 mg capsules are not indicated for initial therapy .
More common than loss of consciousness are the symptoms often associated with lowering of the blood pressure , namely , dizziness and lightheadedness .
The patient should be cautioned about these possible adverse effects and advised what measures to take should they develop .
The patient should also be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur during the initiation of prazosin therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha - 1 blockers .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ’ s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha - 1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
Information for Patients Dizziness or drowsiness may occur after the first dose of this medicine .
Avoid driving or performing hazardous tasks for the first 24 hours after taking this medicine or when the dose is increased .
Dizziness , lightheadedness or fainting may occur , especially when rising from a lying or sitting position .
Getting up slowly may help lessen the problem .
These effects may also occur if you drink alcohol , stand for long periods of time , exercise , or if the weather is hot .
While taking prazosin hydrochloride , be careful in the amount of alcohol you drink .
Also , use extra care during exercise or hot weather , or if standing for long periods .
Check with your physician if you have any questions .
Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following : ( 1 ) cardiac glycosides - digitalis and digoxin ; ( 2 ) hypoglycemics - insulin , chlorpropamide , phenformin , tolazamide , and tolbutamide ; ( 3 ) tranquilizers and sedatives - chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and phenobarbital ; ( 4 ) antigout - allopurinol , colchicine , and probenecid ; ( 5 ) antiarrhythmics - procainamide , propranolol ( see WARNINGS however ) , and quinidine ; and ( 6 ) analgesics , antipyretics and anti - inflammatories - propoxyphene , aspirin , indomethacin , and phenylbutazone .
Addition of a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent to prazosin has been shown to cause an additive hypotensive effect .
This effect can be minimized by reducing the prazosin dose to 1 mg to 2 mg three times a day , by introducing additional antihypertensive drugs cautiously and then by retitrating prazosin based on clinical response .
Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride with a phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions In a study on five patients given from 12 mg to 24 mg of prazosin per day for 10 to 14 days , there was an average increase of 42 % in the urinary metabolite of norepinephrine and an average increase in urinary VMA of 17 % .
Therefore , false positive results may occur in screening tests for pheochromocytoma in patients who are being treated with prazosin .
If an elevated VMA is found , prazosin should be discontinued and the patient retested after a month .
Laboratory Tests In clinical studies in which lipid profiles were followed , there were generally no adverse changes noted between pre - and post - treatment lipid levels .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenic potential was demonstrated in an 18 - month study in rats with prazosin hydrochloride at dose levels more than 225 times the usual maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg per day .
Prazosin was not mutagenic in in vivo genetic toxicology studies .
In a fertility and general reproductive performance study in rats , both males and females , treated with 75 mg / kg ( 225 times the usual maximum recommended human dose ) , demonstrated decreased fertility while those treated with 25 mg / kg ( 75 times the usual maximum recommended human dose ) did not .
In chronic studies ( one year or more ) of prazosin hydrochloride in rats and dogs , testicular changes consisting of atrophy and necrosis occurred at 25 mg / kg / day ( 75 times the usual maximum recommended human dose ) .
No testicular changes were seen in rats or dogs at 10 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the usual maximum recommended human dose ) .
In view of the testicular changes observed in animals , 105 patients on long - term prazosin therapy were monitored for 17 - ketosteroid excretion and no changes indicating a drug effect were observed .
In addition , 27 males on prazosin for up to 51 months did not have changes in sperm morphology suggestive of drug effect .
Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C Prazosin has been shown to be associated with decreased litter size at birth , 1 , 4 , and 21 days of age in rats when given doses more than 225 times the usual maximum recommended human dose .
No evidence of drug - related external , visceral , or skeletal fetal abnormalities were observed .
No drug - related external , visceral , or skeletal abnormalities were observed in fetuses of pregnant rabbits and pregnant monkeys at doses more than 225 times and 12 times the usual maximum recommended human dose respectively .
The use of prazosin and a beta - blocker for the control of severe hypertension in 44 pregnant women revealed no drug - related fetal abnormalities or adverse effects .
Therapy with prazosin was continued for as long as 14 weeks . 1 Prazosin has also been used alone or in combination with other hypotensive agents in severe hypertension of pregnancy by other investigators .
No fetal or neonatal abnormalities have been reported with the use of prazosin . 2 There are no adequate and well controlled studies which establish the safety of prazosin in pregnant women .
Prazosin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the mother and fetus .
Nursing Mothers Prazosin has been shown to be excreted in small amounts in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when prazosin is administered to a nursing woman .
Usage in Children Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials were conducted on more than 900 patients .
During these trials and subsequent marketing experience , the most frequent reactions associated with prazosin hydrochloride therapy are : dizziness 10 . 3 % , headache 7 . 8 % , drowsiness 7 . 6 % , lack of energy 6 . 9 % , weakness 6 . 5 % , palpitations 5 . 3 % , and nausea 4 . 9 % .
In most instances side effects have disappeared with continued therapy or have been tolerated with no decrease in dose of drug .
Less frequent adverse reactions which are reported to occur in 1 % to 4 % of patients are : Gastrointestinal : vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Cardiovascular : edema , orthostatic hypotension , dyspnea , syncope .
Central Nervous System : vertigo , depression , nervousness .
Dermatologic : rash .
Genitourinary : urinary frequency .
EENT : blurred vision , reddened sclera , epistaxis , dry mouth , nasal congestion .
In addition , fewer than 1 % of patients have reported the following ( in some instances , exact causal relationships have not been established ) : Gastrointestinal : abdominal discomfort and / or pain , liver function abnormalities , pancreatitis .
Cardiovascular : tachycardia .
Central Nervous System : paresthesia , hallucinations .
Dermatologic : pruritus , alopecia , lichen planus .
Genitourinary : incontinence , impotence , priapism .
EENT : tinnitus .
Other : diaphoresis , fever , positive ANA titer , arthralgia .
Single reports of pigmentary mottling and serous retinopathy , and a few reports of cataract development or disappearance have been reported .
In these instances , the exact causal relationship has not been established because the baseline observations were frequently inadequate .
In more specific slit - lamp and funduscopic studies , which included adequate baseline examinations , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings have been reported .
Literature reports exist associating prazosin therapy with a worsening of preexisting narcolepsy .
A causal relationship is uncertain in these cases .
In post - marketing experience , the following adverse events have been reported : Autonomic Nervous System : flushing .
Body as a Whole : allergic reaction , asthenia , malaise , pain .
Cardiovascular : General : angina pectoris , hypertension .
Endocrine : gynecomastia .
Heart Rate / Rhythm : bradycardia .
Psychiatric : insomnia .
Skin / Appendages : urticaria .
Vascular ( Extracardiac ) : vasculitis .
Vision : eye pain .
Special Senses : During cataract surgery , a variant of small pupil syndrome known as Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been reported in association with alpha - 1 blocker therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGE Accidental ingestion of at least 50 mg of prazosin hydrochloride in a 2 year old child resulted in profound drowsiness and depressed reflexes .
No decrease in blood pressure was noted .
Recovery was uneventful .
Should overdosage lead to hypotension , support of the cardiovascular system is of first importance .
Restoration of blood pressure and normalization of heart rate may be accomplished by keeping the patient in the supine position .
If this measure is inadequate , shock should first be treated with volume expanders .
If necessary , vasopressors should then be used .
Renal function should be monitored and supported as needed .
Laboratory data indicate prazosin is not dialysable because it is protein bound .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a guide to its administration : Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day ( see WARNINGS ) .
Maintenance Dose Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses .
The therapeutic dosages most commonly employed have ranged from 6 mg to 15 mg daily given in divided doses .
Doses higher than 20 mg usually do not increase efficacy , however a few patients may benefit from further increases up to a daily dose of 40 mg given in divided doses .
After initial titration some patients can be maintained adequately on a twice daily dosage regimen .
Use With Other Drugs When adding a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent , the dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be reduced to 1 mg or 2 mg three times a day and retitration then carried out .
Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride capsules with a PDE - 5 inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension ; therefore , PDE - 5 inhibitor therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose in patients taking prazosin hydrochloride capsules .
HOW SUPPLIED Repackaged by Aphena Pharma Solutions - TN .
See Repackaging Information for available configurations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Prazosin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP are available containing 1 mg , 2 mg , or 5 mg of prazosin as the hydrochloride .
The 1 mg capsule is a hard - shell gelatin capsule with a dark green opaque cap and a light brown opaque body axially printed with MYLAN over 1101 in white ink on both the cap and body .
The capsule is filled with a white to off - white powder blend .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 1101 - 01 bottles of 100 capsules NDC 0378 - 1101 - 10 bottles of 1000 capsules The 2 mg capsule is a hard - shell gelatin capsule with a brown opaque cap and a light brown opaque body axially printed with MYLAN over 2302 in white ink on both the cap and body .
The capsule is filled with a white to off - white powder blend .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 2302 - 01 bottles of 100 capsules NDC 0378 - 2302 - 10 bottles of 1000 capsules The 5 mg capsule is a hard - shell gelatin capsule with a light blue opaque cap and a light brown opaque body axially printed with MYLAN over 3205 in white ink on both the cap and body .
The capsule is filled with a white to off - white powder blend .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 3205 - 01 bottles of 100 capsules NDC 0378 - 3205 - 25 bottles of 250 capsules Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from moisture and light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined by the USP using a child - resistant closure .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Lubbe , WF , Hodge , JV : New Zealand Med J 94 ( 691 ) 169 - 172 , 1981 .
• 2 .
Davey , DA , and Dommissee , J : SA .
Med J , Oct . 4 , 1980 ( 551 - 556 ) .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 REVISED JANUARY 2010 PRSN : R13 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets or capsules .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 2 mg 90 43353 - 868 - 60 180 43353 - 868 - 80 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20140403 SC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg NDC 43353 - 868 - Prazosin HCI 2 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
