DESCRIPTION Trientine hydrochloride , USP is N , N ' - bis ( 2 - aminoethyl ) - 1 , 2 - ethanediamine dihydrochloride .
It is a white to pale yellow crystalline hygroscopic powder .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in methanol , slightly soluble in ethanol , and insoluble in chloroform and ether .
The empirical formula is C6H18N4 · 2 HCl with a molecular weight of 219 . 2 .
The structural formula is : NH2 ( CH2 ) 2 NH ( CH2 ) 2 NH ( CH2 ) 2NH2 · 2 HCl Trientine hydrochloride ( HCl ) , USP is a chelating compound for removal of excess copper from the body .
Each trientine HCl capsule , USP for oral administration contains 250 mg of trientine HCl , USP with the following inactive ingredient : stearic acid .
The hard gelatin capsule shells contain the following inactive ingredients : black iron oxide , gelatin , red iron oxide , titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
The black ink contains the following inactive ingredients : black iron oxide , butyl alcohol , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , purified water , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Introduction Wilson ’ s disease ( hepatolenticular degeneration ) is an autosomal inherited metabolic defect resulting in an inability to maintain a near - zero balance of copper .
Excess copper accumulates possibly because the liver lacks the mechanism to excrete free copper into the bile .
Hepatocytes store excess copper but when their capacity is exceeded copper is released into the blood and is taken up into extrahepatic sites .
This condition is treated with a low copper diet and the use of chelating agents that bind copper to facilitate its excretion from the body .
Clinical Summary Forty - one patients ( 18 male and 23 female ) between the ages of 6 and 54 with a diagnosis of Wilson ’ s disease and who were intolerant of d - penicillamine were treated in two separate studies with trientine HCl .
The dosage varied from 450 to 2 , 400 mg per day .
The average dosage required to achieve an optimal clinical response varied between 1 , 000 mg and 2 , 000 mg per day .
The mean duration of trientine HCl therapy was 48 . 7 months ( range 2 to 164 months ) .
Thirty - four of the 41 patients improved , 4 had no change in clinical global response , 2 were lost to follow - up and one showed deterioration in clinical condition .
One of the patients who improved while on therapy with trientine HCl experienced a recurrence of the symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus which had appeared originally during therapy with penicillamine .
Therapy with trientine HCl was discontinued .
No other adverse reactions , except iron deficiency , were noted among any of these 41 patients .
One investigator treated 13 patients with trientine HCl following their development of intolerance to d - penicillamine .
Retrospectively , he compared these patients to an additional group of 12 patients with Wilson ’ s disease who were both tolerant of and controlled with d - penicillamine therapy , but who failed to continue any copper chelation therapy .
The mean age at onset of disease of the latter group was 12 years as compared to 21 years for the former group .
The trientine HCl group received d - penicillamine for an average of 4 years as compared to an average of 10 years for the non - treated group .
Various laboratory parameters showed changes in favor of the patients treated with trientine HCl .
Free and total serum copper , SGOT and serum bilirubin all showed mean increases over baseline in the untreated group which were significantly larger than with the patients treated with trientine HCl .
In the 13 patients treated with trientine HCl , previous symptoms and signs relating to d - penicillamine intolerance disappeared in 8 patients , improved in 4 patients , and remained unchanged in one patient .
The neurological status in the trientine hydrochloride group was unchanged or improved over baseline , whereas in the untreated group , 6 patients remained unchanged and 6 worsened .
Kayser - Fleischer rings improved significantly during trientine HCl treatment .
The clinical outcome of the two groups also differed markedly .
Of the 13 patients on therapy with trientine HCl ( mean duration of therapy 4 . 1 years ; range 1 to 13 years ) , all were alive at the data cutoff date , and in the non - treated group ( mean years with no therapy 2 . 7 years ; range 3 months to 9 years ) , 9 of the 12 died of hepatic disease .
Chelating Properties Preclinical Studies Studies in animals have shown that trientine HCl has cupriuretic activities in both normal and copper - loaded rats .
In general , the effects of trientine HCl on urinary copper excretion are similar to those of equimolar doses of penicillamine , although in one study they were significantly smaller .
Human Studies Renal clearance studies were carried out with penicillamine and trientine HCl on separate occasions in selected patients treated with penicillamine for at least one year .
Six - hour excretion rates of copper were determined off treatment and after a single dose of 500 mg of penicillamine or 1 . 2 g of trientine HCl .
The mean urinary excretion rates of copper were as follows : No .
of Patients Single Dose Treatment Basal Excretion Rate ( mcg Cu + + / 6 hr ) Test - dose Excretion Rate ( mcg Cu + + / 6 hr ) 6 Trientine , 1 . 2 g 19 234 4 Penicillamine , 500 mg 17 320 In patients not previously treated with chelating agents , a similar comparison was made : No .
of Patients Single Dose Treatment Basal Excretion Rate ( mcg Cu + + / 6 hr ) Test - dose Excretion Rate ( mcg Cu + + / 6 hr ) 8 Trientine , 1 . 2 g 71 1 , 326 7 Penicillamine , 500 mg 68 1 , 074 These results demonstrate that trientine HCl is effective as a cupriuretic agent in patients with Wilson ’ s disease although on a molar basis it appears to be less potent or less effective than penicillamine .
Evidence from a radio - labelled copper study indicates that the different cupriuretic effect between these two drugs could be due to a difference in selectivity of the drugs for different copper pools within the body .
Pharmacokinetics Data on the pharmacokinetics of trientine HCl are not available .
Dosage adjustment recommendations are based upon clinical use of the drug ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trientine HCl capsules are indicated in the treatment of patients with Wilson ’ s disease who are intolerant of penicillamine .
Clinical experience with trientine HCl capsules is limited and alternate dosing regimens have not been well - characterized ; all endpoints in determining an individual patient ’ s dose have not been well defined .
Trientine HCl capsules and penicillamine cannot be considered interchangeable .
Trientine HCl capsules should be used when continued treatment with penicillamine is no longer possible because of intolerable or life endangering side effects .
Unlike penicillamine , trientine HCl capsules are not recommended in cystinuria or rheumatoid arthritis .
The absence of a sulfhydryl moiety renders it incapable of binding cystine and , therefore , it is of no use in cystinuria .
In 15 patients with rheumatoid arthritis , trientine HCl capsules was reported not to be effective in improving any clinical or biochemical parameter after 12 weeks of treatment .
Trientine HCl capsules are not indicated for treatment of biliary cirrhosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to this product .
WARNINGS Patient experience with trientine HCl is limited ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Patients receiving trientine HCl should remain under regular medical supervision throughout the period of drug administration .
Patients ( especially women ) should be closely monitored for evidence of iron deficiency anemia .
PRECAUTIONS General There are no reports of hypersensitivity in patients who have been administered trientine HCl for Wilson ’ s disease .
However , there have been reports of asthma , bronchitis and dermatitis occurring after prolonged environmental exposure in workers who use trientine HCl as a hardener of epoxy resins .
Patients should be observed closely for signs of possible hypersensitivity .
Information for Patients Patients should be directed to take trientine HCl on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , or milk .
The capsules should be swallowed whole with water and should not be opened or chewed .
Because of the potential for contact dermatitis , any site of exposure to the capsule contents should be washed with water promptly .
For the first month of treatment , the patient should have his temperature taken nightly , and he should be asked to report any symptom such as fever or skin eruption .
Laboratory Tests The most reliable index for monitoring treatment is the determination of free copper in the serum , which equals the difference between quantitatively determined total copper and ceruloplasmin - copper .
Adequately treated patients will usually have less than 10 mcg free copper / dL of serum .
Therapy may be monitored with a 24 - hour urinary copper analysis periodically ( i . e . , every 6 to 12 months ) .
Urine must be collected in copper - free glassware .
Since a low copper diet should keep copper absorption down to less than one milligram a day , the patient probably will be in the desired state of negative copper balance if 0 . 5 to 1 milligram of copper is present in a 24 - hour collection of urine .
Drug Interactions In general , mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the absorption of trientine HCl .
However , iron deficiency may develop , especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women , or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson ’ s disease .
If necessary , iron may be given in short courses , but since iron and trientine HCl each inhibit absorption of the other , two hours should elapse between administration of trientine HCl and iron .
It is important that trientine HCl be taken on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , or milk .
This permits maximum absorption and reduces the likelihood of inactivation of the drug by metal binding in the gastrointestinal tract .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Data on carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility are not available .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Trientine HCl was teratogenic in rats at doses similar to the human dose .
The frequencies of both resorptions and fetal abnormalities , including hemorrhage and edema , increased while fetal copper levels decreased when trientine hydrochloride was given in the maternal diets of rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Trientine HCl should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when trientine HCl is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use Controlled studies of the safety and effectiveness of trientine HCl in pediatric patients have not been conducted .
It has been used clinically in pediatric patients as young as 6 years with no reported adverse experiences .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of trientine HCl did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience is insufficient to determine differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with trientine HCl has been limited .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical study in patients with Wilson ’ s disease who were on therapy with trientine HCl : iron deficiency , systemic lupus erythematosus ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
In addition , the following adverse reactions have been reported in marketed use : dystonia , muscular spasm , myasthenia gravis .
Trientine HCl is not indicated for treatment of biliary cirrhosis , but in one study of 4 patients treated with trientine HCl for primary biliary cirrhosis , the following adverse reactions were reported : heartburn ; epigastric pain and tenderness ; thickening , fissuring and flaking of the skin ; hypochromic microcytic anemia ; acute gastritis ; aphthoid ulcers ; abdominal pain ; melena ; anorexia ; malaise ; cramps ; muscle pain ; weakness ; rhabdomyolysis .
A causal relationship of these reactions to drug therapy could not be rejected or established .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There is a report of an adult woman who ingested 30 grams of trientine HCl without apparent ill effects .
No other data on overdosage are available .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Systemic evaluation of dose and / or interval between dose has not been done .
However , on limited clinical experience , the recommended initial dose of trientine HCl capsules is 500 to 750 mg / day for pediatric patients and 750 to 1 , 250 mg / day for adults given in divided doses two , three or four times daily .
This may be increased to a maximum of 2 , 000 mg / day for adults or 1 , 500 mg / day for pediatric patients age 12 or under .
The daily dose of trientine HCl capsules should be increased only when the clinical response is not adequate or the concentration of free serum copper is persistently above 20 mcg / dL .
Optimal long - term maintenance dosage should be determined at 6 to 12 month intervals ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
It is important that trientine HCl capsules be given on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , or milk .
The capsules should be swallowed whole with water and should not be opened or chewed .
HOW SUPPLIED Trientine HCl capsules , USP , 250 mg , are supplied as hard gelatin caramel colored capsules printed with black ink : “ TRIENTINE ” on cap and “ 250 mg ” on body .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 69238 - 1545 - 1 STORAGE Keep container tightly closed .
Store refrigerated at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Made in Portugal Rev . 09 - 2017 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
