Active ingredients Calamine 10 . 5 % Petrolatum 79 . 25 % Phenylephrine hydrochloride 0 . 25 % Purpose Hemorrhoidal ( anorectal ) astringent / protectant Hemorrhoidal ( anorectal ) protectant Hemorrhoidal ( anorectal ) vasoconstrictor Uses temporarily helps relieve : anorectal burning , itching , and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporarily : reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue and other anorectal disorders shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue protects inflamed perianal skin and irritated areas Warnings For rectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression When using this product in case of bleeding ; consult a doctor promptly do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not use with an applicator if the introduction of the applicator into the rectum causes additional pain .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms do not improve within 7 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• For external hemorrhoids , apply a small amount of ointment directly to the affected area up to 4 times daily .
• FOR INTRARECTAL USE ( internal hemorrhoids ) : Attach applicator to tube .
Lubricate applicator well , then gently insert applicator into the rectum .
Squeeze a small amount ( 2 g ) of the ointment into the rectum .
Remove and discard used applicator .
Apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information keep container tightly closed store at room temperature 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) do not use if the physical properties of this product have changed Inactive ingredients Amber , callicarpa nudiflora leaf , corydalis yanhusuo tuber , lanolin , panax notoginseng root , pearl , sanguisorba officinalis root , scutellaria baicalensis root , sodium borate , and styphnolobium japonicum flower .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm FARGELIN HEMORRHOIDAL OINTMENT NDC 55614 - 610 - 01 0 . 705 oz ( 20 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
