active ingredients , purpose colloidal sulfur 2 % ( equivalent to precipitated sulfur 10 % ) … ... acne treatment salicylic acid 3 % .........................................
acne treatment Indications & Usage uses for the treatment and prevention of oily , acne - prone skin directions ▪ use as a replacement to your existing cleanser ( s ) ▪ lather using warm water and cleanse affected areas ▪ rinse and pat dry ▪ cleanse once to three times per day ▪ monitor skin for dryness or irritation and reduce application as needed Dosage and Administration ▪ use as a replacement to your existing cleanser ( s ) ▪ lather using warm water and cleanse affected areas ▪ rinse and pat dry ▪ cleanse once to three times per day ▪ monitor skin for dryness or irritation and reduce application as needed Warnings ▪ for external use only ▪ keep out of reach of children when using this product avoid other antiseborrheics unless otherwise directed by your physician .
use in conjunction with other oral or topical anti - acne drugs may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
inactive ingredients palm and palm kernel oil , vegetable - based moisturizer , glycerin , ethanol , water Purpose for the treatment and prevention of oily , acne - prone skin Keep out of reach of children ▪ for external use only ▪ keep out of reach of children Active Ingredients , Uses , Warnings , Directions , Inactive Ingredients [ MULTIMEDIA ] drug facts active ingredients / purpose colloidal sulfur 2 % ( equivalent to precipitated sulfur 10 % ) … ... acne treatment salicylic acid 3 % .........................................
acne treatment uses for the treatment and prevention of oily , acne - prone skin warnings ▪ for external use only ▪ keep out of reach of children when using this product avoid other antiseborrheics unless otherwise directed by your physician .
use in conjunction with other oral or topical anti - acne drugs may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
directions ▪ use as a replacement to your existing cleanser ( s ) ▪ lather using warm water and cleanse affected areas ▪ rinse and pat dry ▪ cleanse once to three times per day ▪ monitor skin for dryness or irritation and reduce application as needed inactive ingredients palm and palm kernel oil , vegetable - based moisturizer , glycerin , ethanol , water [ MULTIMEDIA ]
