To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of dicloxacillin sodium capsules and other antibacterial drugs , dicloxacillin sodium capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Dicloxacillin sodium , USP is an antibacterial agent of the isoxazolyl penicillin series .
It is a penicillinase - resistant , acid resistant semisynthetic penicillin suitable for oral administration .
Dicloxacillin sodium is chemically designated as 4 - Thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid , 6 - [ [ [ 3 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolyl ] - carbonyl ] - amino ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - , monosodium salt , monohydrate , [ 2 S - ( 2α5α , 6β ) ] and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule for oral administration contains dicloxacillin sodium equivalent to 250 or 500 mg of dicloxacillin .
The inactive ingredient is magnesium stearate .
The capsule shells contain FD & C Blue 1 , titanium dioxide , and gelatin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Penicillinase - resistant penicillins exert a bactericidal action against penicillin - susceptible microorganisms during the state of active multiplication .
All penicillins inhibit the biosynthesis of the bacterial cell wall .
Dicloxacillin sodium has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic Gram - Positive Microorganisms Staphylococcus spp .
( penicillinase producing ) Susceptibility Testing Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure1 , 2 that has been recommended for use with disks to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to dicloxacillin , uses the 1 mcg oxacillin disk .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for dicloxacillin .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 1 mcg oxacillin disk should be interpreted according to the criteria provided in Table 1 .
Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods that are used to determine minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure1 , 3 uses a standardized dilution method ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with oxacillin powder .
The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the criteria provided in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 : SUSCEPTIBILITY INTERPRETIVE CRITERIA Susceptibility Test Result Interpretive Criteria Pathogen Disk diffusion ( Zone diameter in mm ) Minimal Inhibitory Concentration ( MIC in mcg / mL ) S I R S I R S . aureus ≥ 13 11 - 12 ≤ 10 ≤ 2 - ≥ 4 A report of “ Susceptible ” ( S ) indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited by usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in the blood .
A report of “ Intermediate ” ( I ) indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” ( R ) indicates that usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in the blood are unlikely to be inhibitory and that other therapy should be selected .
Measurement of MIC and achieved antimicrobial compound concentrations may be appropriate to guide therapy in some infections .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section for further information on drug concentrations achieved in infected body sites and other pharmacokinetic properties of this antimicrobial drug product . )
Quality Control Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms . 1 , 2 , 3 The 1 mcg oxacillin disk and the standard oxacillin powder should provide respectively the following zone diameters and MIC values in these laboratory test quality control strains : TABLE 2 : ACCEPTABLE QUALITY CONTROL RANGES Acceptable Quality Control Ranges Microorganism Disk Diffusion ( Zone diameter ranges in mm ) Minimal Inhibitory Concentration Range ( MIC in mcg / mL ) Staphylococcus aureus ATCC ® 25923 18 - 24 - Staphylococcus aureus ATCC ® 29213 - 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 Pharmacokinetics Dicloxacillin sodium , USP is resistant to destruction by acid .
Absorption of dicloxacillin sodium after oral administration is rapid but incomplete .
Food in the gastrointestinal tract decreases the absorption of dicloxacillin .
Studies with an oral dose of 125 mg gave average serum levels at 60 minutes of 4 . 74 mcg / mL .
At four hours , average levels were 0 . 62 mcg / mL .
In one study , single oral doses of dicloxacillin sodium 500 mg produced peak serum concentrations of 10 to 17 mcg / mL at 1 to 1 . 5 hours .
Once absorbed , dicloxacillin sodium is 95 % to 99 % bound to serum proteins , mainly albumin .
Dicloxacillin sodium , with normal doses , has insignificant concentrations in the cerebrospinal and ascitic fluids .
It is found in therapeutic concentrations in the pleural , bile , and amniotic fluids .
Dicloxacillin sodium is rapidly excreted as unchanged drug in the urine by glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
The elimination half - life for dicloxacillin sodium is about 0 . 7 hours .
Dicloxacillin is not dialyzable .
Only minimal amounts are removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE The penicillinase - resistant penicillins are indicated in the treatment of infections caused by penicillinase - producing staphylococci which have demonstrated susceptibility to the drugs .
Cultures and susceptibility tests should be performed initially to determine the causative organism and their sensitivity to the drug ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Susceptibility Testing ) .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins may be used to initiate therapy in suspected cases of resistant staphylococcal infections prior to the availability of laboratory test results .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins should not be used in infections caused by organisms susceptible to penicillin G .
If the susceptibility tests indicate that the infection is due to an organism other than a resistant staphylococcus , therapy should not be continued with a penicillinase - resistant penicillin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of dicloxacillin sodium capsules and other antibacterial drugs , dicloxacillin sodium capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicloxacillin sodium is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the penicillins or any component of the formulations .
WARNINGS Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic shock with collapse ) reactions have occurred in patients receiving penicillin .
The incidence of anaphylactic shock in all penicillin - treated patients is between 0 . 015 and 0 . 04 percent .
Anaphylactic shock resulting in death has occurred in approximately 0 . 002 percent of the patients treated .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following a parenteral administration , it has occurred in patients receiving oral penicillins .
When penicillin therapy is indicated , it should be initiated only after a comprehensive patient drug and allergy history has been obtained .
If an allergic reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued and the patient should receive supportive treatment , eg , artificial maintenance of ventilation , pressor amines , antihistamines , and corticosteroids .
Individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity may also experience allergic reactions when treated with a cephalosporin .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including dicloxacillin sodium , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Penicillinase - resistant penicillins should generally not be administered to patients with a history of sensitivity to any penicillin .
Penicillin should be used with caution in individuals with histories of significant allergies and / or asthma .
There is clinical and laboratory evidence of partial cross - allergenicity among penicillins and other β - lactam antibiotics including cephalosporins , cephamycins , and other 1 - oxa - β - lactams .
Whenever allergic reactions occur , penicillin should be withdrawn unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to penicillin therapy .
The oral route of administration should not be relied upon in patients with severe illness , or with nausea , vomiting , gastric dilation , cardiospasm , or intestinal hypermotility .
Occasionally patients will not absorb therapeutic amounts of orally administered penicillin .
Prescribing dicloxacillin sodium capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for the Patient Patients receiving penicillins should be given the following information and instructions by the physician : • 1 .
Patients should be told that penicillin is an antibacterial agent which will work with the body ' s natural defenses to control certain types of infections .
They should be told that the drug should not be taken if they have had an allergic reaction to any form of penicillin previously , and to inform the physician of any allergies or previous allergic reactions to any drugs they may have had ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 2 .
Patients who have previously experienced an anaphylactic reaction to penicillin should be instructed to wear a medical identification tag or bracelet .
• 3 .
Because most antibacterial drugs taken by mouth are best absorbed on an empty stomach , patients should be directed , unless circumstances warrant otherwise , to take penicillin one hour before meals or two hours after eating ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Pharmacokinetics ) .
• 4 .
Patients should be told to take the entire course of therapy prescribed , even if fever and other symptoms have stopped ( see PRECAUTIONS – General ) .
• 5 .
If any of the following reactions occur , stop taking your prescription and notify the physician : shortness of breath , wheezing , skin rash , mouth irritation , black tongue , sore throat , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , fever , swollen joints , or any unusual bleeding or bruising ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
• 6 .
Do not take any additional medications without physician approval , including non - prescription drugs such as antacids , laxatives , or vitamins .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including dicloxacillin sodium capsules should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When dicloxacillin sodium capsules are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by dicloxacillin sodium capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should be performed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Microbiology ) .
In the treatment of suspected staphylococcal infections , therapy should be changed to another active agent if culture tests fail to demonstrate the presence of staphylococci .
Periodic assessment of organ system function including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic should be made during prolonged therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Blood cultures , white blood cell , and differential cell counts should be obtained prior to initiation of therapy and at least weekly during therapy with penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Periodic urinalysis , blood urea nitrogen , and creatinine determinations should be performed during therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins and dosage alterations should be considered if these values become elevated .
If any impairment of renal function is suspected or known to exist , a reduction in the total dosage should be considered and blood levels monitored to avoid possible neurotoxic reactions ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
AST ( SGOT ) and ALT ( SGPT ) values should be obtained periodically during therapy to monitor for possible liver function abnormalities .
Drug Interactions Tetracycline , a bacteriostatic antibiotic , may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided .
Probenecid administered concomitantly with penicillins increases and prolongs serum penicillin levels ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Penicillinase - resistant penicillins , like other penicillins , are physically and / or chemically incompatible with aminoglycosides and can inactivate the drugs in vitro .
In vitro mixing of penicillins and aminoglycosides should be avoided during concomitant therapy and the drugs should be administered separately .
Penicillins can inactivate aminoglycosides in vitro in serum samples from patients receiving both drugs , which could produce falsely decreased results in serum aminoglycoside assays of the serum samples .
Dicloxacillin may reduce the anticoagulant response to dicumarol and warfarin .
Careful monitoring of prothrombin times is suggested during concomitant therapy , and dosage of the anticoagulant should be adjusted as required .
The mechanism of this possible interaction is unclear , but may be due to hepatic enzyme induction .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with these drugs .
Studies on reproduction ( nafcillin ) in rats and rabbits reveal no fetal or maternal abnormalities before conception and continuously through weaning ( one generation ) .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in the mouse , rat , and rabbit have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Human experience with the penicillins during pregnancy has not shown any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women showing conclusively that harmful effects of these drugs on the fetus can be excluded .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Penicillins are excreted in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when penicillins are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Because of incompletely developed renal function in newborns , penicillinase - resistant penicillins ( especially methicillin ) may not be completely excreted , with abnormally high blood levels resulting .
Frequent blood levels are advisable in this group with dosage adjustments when necessary .
All newborns treated with penicillin should be monitored closely for clinical and laboratory evidence of toxic or adverse effects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Experience in the neonatal period is limited .
Therefore a dose for the newborn is not recommended .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of dicloxacillin sodium capsules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Postmarketing Experience Rare reports have been received during postmarketing surveillance of esophageal burning , esophagitis , and esophageal ulceration , particularly after ingestion of dicloxacillin capsules with an insufficient quantity of water and / or before going to bed .
To minimize the risk of developing such events , dicloxacillin should be taken with at least 4 fluid ounces ( 120 mL ) of water and dicloxacillin should NOT be taken in the supine position or immediately before going to bed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypersensitive Reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0 . 7 to 10 percent ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated .
In such cases , it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines .
Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically , immediate and delayed .
Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , hypotension , vascular collapse , and death .
Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare ( see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy .
Another type of immediate reaction , an accelerated reaction , may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria , pruritus , and fever .
Although laryngeal edema , laryngospasm , and hypotension occasionally occur , fatality is uncommon .
Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy .
Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness - like symptoms ( ie , fever , malaise , urticaria , myalgia , arthralgia , abdominal pain ) and various skin rashes .
Gastrointestinal Reactions Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , stomatitis , black or hairy tongue , and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur , especially during oral penicillin therapy .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of dicloxacillin .
Therefore , it is important to consider its diagnosis in patients who develop diarrhea in association with dicloxacillin use .
Rare reports have been received during postmarketing surveillance of esophageal burning , esophagitis , and esophageal ulceration , particularly after ingestion of dicloxacillin capsules with an insufficient quantity of water and / or before going to bed ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G ( e . g . , lethargy , confusion , twitching , multifocal myoclonus , localized or generalized epileptiform seizures ) may occur with large intravenous doses of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins especially in patients with renal insufficiency .
Renal Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of methicillin sodium and infrequently with the administration of nafcillin and oxacillin .
Manifestations of this reaction may include rash , fever , eosinophilia , hematuria , proteinuria , and renal insufficiency .
Methicillin - induced nephropathy does not appear to be dose - related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy .
Hematologic Reactions Eosinophilia , hemolytic anemia , agranulocytosis , neutropenia , leukopenia , granulocytopenia , thrombocytopenia , and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Hepatic Reactions Hepatotoxicity , characterized by fever , nausea , and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests , mainly elevated SGOT levels , has been associated with the use of oxacillin and cloxacillin .
Cholestatic hepatitis has been reported rarely .
Asymptomatic , transient increases in serum concentrations of alkaline phosphatase , AST ( SGOT ) , and ALT ( SGPT ) have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The penicillinase - resistant penicillins are available for oral administration and for intramuscular and intravenous injection .
The sodium salts of methicillin , oxacillin , and nafcillin may be administered parenterally and the sodium salts of cloxacillin , dicloxacillin , oxacillin , and nafcillin are available for oral use .
Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their sensitivity to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should always be performed .
Duration of therapy varies with the type and severity of infection as well as the overall condition of the patient , therefore , it should be determined by the clinical and bacteriological response of the patient .
In severe staphylococcal infections , therapy with penicillinase - resistant penicillins should be continued for at least 14 days .
Therapy should be continued for at least 48 hours after the patient has become afebrile , asymptomatic , and cultures are negative .
The treatment of endocarditis and osteomyelitis may require a longer term of therapy .
Concurrent administration of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins and probenecid increases and prolongs serum penicillin levels .
Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion of penicillin .
Penicillin - probenecid therapy is generally limited to those infections where very high serum levels of penicillin are necessary .
Oral preparations of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should not be used as initial therapy in serious , life - threatening infections ( see PRECAUTIONS – General ) .
Oral therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins may be used to follow - up the previous use of a parenteral agent as soon as the clinical condition warrants .
For intramuscular gluteal injections , care should be taken to avoid sciatic nerve injury .
With intravenous administration , particularly in elderly patients , care should be taken because of the possibility of thrombophlebitis .
RECOMMENDED DOSAGES FOR DICLOXACILLIN SODIUM , USP IN MILD TO MODERATE AND SEVERE INFECTIONS DRUG ADULTS CHILDREN Mild to Moderate Severe Mild to Moderate Severe Dicloxacillin 125 mg every 6 hours 250 mg every 6 hours 12 . 5 mg / kg / day [ 1 ] in equally divided doses every 6 hours 25 mg / kg / day null in equally divided doses every 6 hours [ 1 ] Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs . )
Dicloxacillin is best absorbed when taken on an empty stomach , and should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals .
Dicloxacillin should be taken with at least 4 fluid ounces ( 120 mL ) of water and should not be taken in the supine position or immediately before going to bed ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Dicloxacillin sodium capsules , USP 250 mg Light blue opaque cap / body capsule printed with GG854 containing dicloxacillin sodium equivalent to 250 mg dicloxacillin .
Bottle of 40 capsules NDC 00440 - 1380 - 40 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES • 1 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing ; Twenty - Second Informational Supplement .
CLSI document M100 - S22 ..
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA , 2012 .
• 2 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Test ; Approved Standard - Eleventh Edition .
CLSI document M02 - A11 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA , 2012 .
• 3 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - Ninth Edition .
CLSI document M07 - A9 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA , 2012 05 - 2013 M 46091761 Manufactured in Austria by Sandoz GmbH Distributed by Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 250 mg Label NDC 00440 - 1380 - 40 Dicloxacillin Sodium Capsules , USP 250 mg Rx only 40 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
