Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone , USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • • eczema • • insect bites • • poison ivy • • poison oak • • poison sumac • • soaps • • jewelry • • detergents • • cosmetics • • psoriasis • • seborrheic dermatitis • • for external genital , feminine and anal itching • • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • • for external feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor • for external anal itching : • do not use more than directed unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms last for more than 7 days • • the condition gets worse • • symptoms clear up and occur again in a few days • • rectal bleeding occurs , consult doctor promptly Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older • • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age • • do not use , consult a doctor For external anal itching Adults : when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water , rinse thoroughly , gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • • Store at room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
• • Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients mineral oil , white petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday – Friday .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Distributed by : Actavis Pharma Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Proficient Rx NDC 71205 - 034 - 30 Compare to the active ingredient in Cortizone • 10 ® * Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone Ointment , USP 1 % Anti - Itch Ointment Relieves Itches and Rashes Net wt .
1 oz ( 28 g ) For the temporary relief of itches and rashes due to : • Insect Bites • Eczema • Seborrheic dermatitis • Poison Ivy , oak & sumac [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
