Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride % 0 . 25 w / w .
Purpose : Antibacterial Purpose Antibacterial , Wet Wipes Use Antibacterial wet wipes helps reduce bacteria ( organisms ) .
Effective on bacterias : Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538 , Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15442 , Enterococcus hirae ATCC 10541 , Escherichia coli ATCC 10536 Warnings Keep away from children and direct sunlight .
Children should not use this product without an adult supervision .
For external use only .
In case of poisoning , call the National Toxitation Information Center .
Awoid contact with eyes .
Do not use Do not use with eyes .
For external use only .
In case of inhaling : If you feel uncomfortable get some fresh ait .
In case of skin Irritation : Occurs stop using the wipes immediately and wash the affected area with water and soap for at least 15 minutes .
People with sensitive skin , pregnant women , breastfeeding women and children under the age of 12 should consult a doctor / pharmacist before using the product .
Seek for medical advice if necessary .
In case of contact with eyes : If you are wearing contact lenses , remove them immediately .
Rince your eyes with plenty of clean water .
In case of swallowing : Call your local Toxication Center and get medical help .
There is no specific antidote therefore treatment must be done according to symptoms .
Treatment : Treatment is indicated according to the indication .
CALL YOUR LOCAL POISON CENTER .
Treatment is indicated according to the indication .
CALL YOUR LOCAL POISON CENTER Keep out of reach of children .
Children should not use this product without an adult supervision .
Directions Provides practical cleaning without need of water and soap .
Used for hand cleaning .
Open the adhesive label and pick up a wipe .
Gently wipe your hands with antibacterial wipe .
No rinsing required .
User group : General public Other Information Store in a cool and dry place .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua , Parfum , C12 - 15 Pareth - 12 , Glycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Piroctone Olamine , Tocopheryl Acetate , Panthenol , Citric Acid , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
