DESCRIPTION Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 05 % is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing azelastine hydrochloride , a relatively selective H1 - receptor antagonist for topical administration to the eyes .
Azelastine hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 418 . 37 .
Azelastine hydrochloride is sparingly soluble in water , methanol and propylene glycol , and slightly soluble in ethanol , octanol and glycerine .
Azelastine hydrochloride is a racemic mixture with a melting point of 225 ° C .
The chemical name for azelastine hydrochloride is ( ± ) - 1 - ( 2 H ) - phthalazinone , 4 - [ ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - ( hexahydro - 1 - methyl - 1 H - azepin - 4 - yl ) - , monohydrochloride and is represented by the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Empirical chemical structure : C22H24CIN3O • HCl Each mL of azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 05 % contains : Active : 0 . 5 mg azelastine hydrochloride , equivalent to 0 . 457 mg of azelastine base ; Preservative : 0 . 25 mg benzalkonium chloride solution ( 50 % ) USP - NF ; Inactives : disodium edetate dihydrate , hypromellose , sorbitol solution , sodium hydroxide and water for injection .
It has a pH of approximately 5 to 6 . 5 and an osmolality of approximately 271 to 312 mOsmol / L .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Azelastine hydrochloride is a relatively selective histamine H1 antagonist and an inhibitor of the release of histamine and other mediators from cells ( e . g . , mast cells ) involved in the allergic response .
Based on in - vitro studies using human cell lines , inhibition of other mediators involved in allergic reactions ( e . g . , leukotrienes and PAF ) has been demonstrated with azelastine hydrochloride .
Decreased chemotaxis and activation of eosinophils has also been demonstrated .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Absorption of azelastine following ocular administration was relatively low .
A study in symptomatic patients receiving one drop of azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in each eye two to four times a day ( 0 . 06 to 0 . 12 mg azelastine hydrochloride ) demonstrated plasma concentrations of azelastine hydrochloride to generally be between 0 . 02 and 0 . 25 ng / mL after 56 days of treatment .
Three of nineteen patients had quantifiable amounts of N - desmethylazelastine that ranged from 0 . 25 to 0 . 87 ng / mL at Day 56 .
Based on intravenous and oral administration , the elimination half - life , steady - state volume of distribution and plasma clearance were 22 hours , 14 . 5 L / kg and 0 . 5 L / h / kg , respectively .
Approximately 75 % of an oral dose of radiolabeled azelastine hydrochloride was excreted in the feces with less than 10 % as unchanged azelastine .
Azelastine hydrochloride is oxidatively metabolized to the principal metabolite , N - desmethylazelastine , by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system .
In - vitro studies in human plasma indicate that the plasma protein binding of azelastine and N - desmethylazelastine are approximately 88 % and 97 % , respectively .
Clinical Trials In a conjunctival antigen challenge study , azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was more effective than its vehicle in preventing itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution had a rapid ( within 3 minutes ) onset of effect and a duration of effect of approximately 8 hours for the prevention of itching .
In environmental studies , adult and pediatric , patients with seasonal allergic conjunctivitis were treated with azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution for two to eight weeks .
In these studies , azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was more effective than its vehicle in relieving itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of itching of the eye associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is for ocular use only and not for injection or oral use .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch any surface , the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
This product is sterile when packaged .
Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation .
The preservative in azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red , should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution before they insert their contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Azelastine hydrochloride administered orally for 24 months was not carcinogenic in rats and mice at doses up to 30 mg / kg / day and 25 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Based on a 30 µL drop size , these doses were approximately 25 , 000 and 21 , 000 times higher than the maximum recommended ocular human use level of 0 . 001 mg / kg / day for a 50 kg adult .
Azelastine hydrochloride showed no genotoxic effects in the Ames test , DNA repair test , mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , mouse micronucleus test , or chromosomal aberration test in rat bone marrow .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats showed no effects on male or female fertility at oral doses of up to 25 , 000 times the maximum recommended ocular human use level .
At 68 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 57 , 000 times the maximum recommended ocular human use level ) , the duration of the estrous cycle was prolonged and copulatory activity and the number of pregnancies were decreased .
The numbers of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased ; however , the implantation ratio was not affected .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Azelastine hydrochloride has been shown to be embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic ( external and skeletal abnormalities ) in mice at an oral dose of 68 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 57 , 000 times the recommended ocular human use level ) .
At an oral dose of 30 mg / kg / day ( 25 , 000 times the recommended ocular human use level ) , delayed ossification ( undeveloped metacarpus ) and the incidence of 14 th rib were increased in rats .
At 68 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 57 , 000 times the maximum recommended ocular human use level ) azelastine hydrochloride caused resorption and fetotoxic effects in rats .
The relevance to humans of these skeletal findings noted at only high drug exposure levels is unknown .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether azelastine hydrochloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled multiple - dose studies where patients were treated for up to 56 days , the most frequently reported adverse reactions were transient eye burning / stinging ( approximately 30 % ) , headaches ( approximately 15 % ) and bitter taste ( approximately 10 % ) .
The occurrence of these events was generally mild .
The following events were reported in 1 to 10 % of patients : asthma , conjunctivitis , dyspnea , eye pain , fatigue , influenza - like symptoms , pharyngitis , pruritus , rhinitis and temporary blurring .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop instilled into each affected eye twice a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Azelastine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 05 % is supplied as follows : 6 mL ( NDC # 47335 - 938 - 90 ) solution in a translucent 10 mL HDPE container with a LDPE dropper tip , and a white HDPE screw cap .
Storage STORE UPRIGHT at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
Halol - Baroda Highway , Halol - 389 350 , Gujarat , India .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 PJPI0294B ISS .
03 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - LABEL NDC 47335 - 938 - 90 Azelastine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 05 % 6 mL - Sterile For the Eye Only Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON NDC 47335 - 938 - 90 Azelastine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 05 % 6 mL - Sterile For the Eye Only Rx only SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
