This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use To reduce germs and bacteria when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use Do not use on children less than 2 months of age or on open skin wounds .
Keep away from eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
If irritation or rash occurs , stop use and consult a doctor .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Apply generously .
Rub all over both hands until dry .
Other information Store between 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
May discolor fabrics and surfaces .
Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP • Update and clarify use cases , warnings , and directions of use .
( 8 / 27 / 2020 ) • Update label design .
Added link to lifewiseusa . com .
Clarified Drug Information panel .
( 10 / 29 / 2020 ) Package Label - Principal Display Panel NDC : 80019 - 520 - 01 / 02 / 03 Catalog No . 6405201 / 2 / 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
