Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • for temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to : • Eczema • Insect bites • Soaps and detergents • Cosmetics • Jewelry • Seborrheic dermatitis • Psoriasis • Poison ivy , oak or sumac • For external genital , feminine and anal itching • Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • In children under 2 years of age • If you have a vaginal discharge • For the treatment of diaper rash Ask a doctor before use if you have • External genital or feminine itching • External anal itching • Bleeding When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes • Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor • If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , stop use and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product , unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions For minor skin irritations and rashes , adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
For external anal itching : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before application of this product • Children : under 12 years of age , consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Paraffin wax , Micro wax , Light liquid paraffin Other information • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • store at room temperature • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiration Date Questions or comments ?
1 844 500 - 2729 ‬ between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday to Friday .
MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT Temporary Relief the Discomfort of itching , Rashes and Irritation on Skin Due to Eczema , Psoriasis and Insect bites Compared to the active ingredient in Cortizone 10 Distributed by .
ARU PHARMA INC .
MOUNT VERNON , NY 10552 www . qpackrx . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
