Active ingredient Salicylic acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Flammable .
Keep away from heat and flame .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce daily application to once a day or every other day Inactive ingredients alcohol ( 24 . 5 % ) , algae extract , aloe barbadesis leaft extract , benzophenone - 4 , denatonium benzoate , dimethicone propyl PG - betaine , fragrance , glycerin , isoceteth - 20 , PEG - 32 , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , water , blue 1 Gently cleans and refreshes by removing oil and dirt Delicate formula that helps treat and prevent pimples * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Company , distributor of Clean & Clear Sensitive Skin Deep Cleaning Astringent .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK Manufactured For Your Military Exchanges By : Vi - Jon , 8515 Page Avenue St . Louis , MO 63114 DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - MO - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 875 . 002 / 875 AE Principal Display Panel Compare to Clean & Clear Sensitive Skin Deep Cleaning Astringent * exchange select deep cleaning astringent salicylic acid acne medication SENSITIVE SKIN gentle formula that treats and helps prevent pimples for clean , beautiful skin 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) quality value [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
