1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DuoDote is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by organophosphorus nerve agents as well as organophosphorus insecticides in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) .
DuoDote , a combination of atropine , a cholinergic muscarinic antagonist , and pralidoxime chloride , a cholinesterase reactivator , is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by organophosphorus nerve agents as well as organophosphorus insecticides in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • DuoDote is intended as an initial treatment as soon as symptoms appear ; definitive medical care should be sought immediately .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage for Mild Symptoms : If the patient experiences two or more mild symptoms , administer one injection intramuscularly into the mid - lateral thigh .
If , at any time after the first dose , the patient develops any of the severe symptoms , administer two additional injections intramuscularly in rapid succession .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage for Severe Symptoms : If a patient has any of the severe symptoms , immediately administer three injections intramuscularly into the patient ' s mid - lateral thigh in rapid succession .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Information • Three ( 3 ) single - dose DuoDote autoinjectors should be available for use in each patient ( including healthcare providers ) at risk for organophosphorus poisoning ; one ( 1 ) for mild symptoms plus two ( 2 ) more for severe symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Note that individuals may not have all symptoms included under the mild or severe symptom category .
• Only administer DuoDote to patients experiencing symptoms of organophosphorus poisoning in a situation where exposure is known or suspected .
The DuoDote autoinjector is intended as an initial treatment of the symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent or insecticide poisonings as soon as symptoms appear ; definitive medical care should be sought immediately .
• The DuoDote autoinjector should be administered by healthcare providers who have had adequate training in the recognition and treatment of nerve agent or insecticide intoxication .
• Close supervision of all treated patients is indicated for at least 48 to 72 hours .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Information Dosage for Mild Symptoms in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing More Than 41 kg ( 90 Pounds ) First Dose : If the patient experiences two or more mild symptoms of nerve agent or insecticide exposure listed in Table 1 , administer one ( 1 ) single - dose DuoDote injection intramuscularly into the mid - lateral thigh .
Additional Doses : If , at any time after the first dose , the patient develops any of the severe symptoms listed in Table 1 , administer two ( 2 ) additional single - dose DuoDote injections intramuscularly in rapid succession .
Wait 10 to 15 minutes for DuoDote to take effect .
If , after 10 to 15 minutes , the patient does not develop any of the severe symptoms listed in Table 1 , no additional DuoDote injections are recommended .
Dosage for Severe Symptoms in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing More Than 41 kg ( 90 Pounds ) If a patient has any of the severe symptoms listed in Table 1 , immediately administer three ( 3 ) single - dose DuoDote injections intramuscularly into the patient ' s mid - lateral thigh in rapid succession .
Table 1 .
Common Symptoms of Organophosphorus Exposure Mild Symptoms Severe Symptoms • Blurred vision , miosis • Excessive , unexplained teary eyes • Excessive , unexplained runny nose • Increased salivation such as sudden drooling • Chest tightness or difficulty breathing • Tremors throughout the body or muscular twitching • Nausea and / or vomiting • Unexplained wheezing , coughing or increased airway secretions • Acute onset of stomach cramps • Tachycardia or bradycardia • Strange or confused behavior • Severe difficulty breathing or copious secretions from lungs / airway • Severe muscular twitching and general weakness • Involuntary urination and defecation • Convulsions • Unconsciousness 2 . 3 Administration Instructions * Do Not Remove Gray Safety Release until ready to use .
* Never touch the Green Tip ( Needle End ) !
• 1 ) Tear open the plastic pouch at any of the notches .
Remove the DuoDote autoinjector from the pouch .
• 2 ) Place the DuoDote autoinjector in your dominant hand .
( If you are right - handed , your right hand is dominant . )
Firmly grasp the center of the DuoDote autoinjector with the Green Tip ( needle end ) pointing down .
• 3 ) With your other hand , pull off the Gray Safety Release .
DuoDote is now ready to be administered .
• 4 ) The injection site is the mid - lateral thigh area .
The DuoDote autoinjector can inject through clothing .
However , make sure pockets at the injection site are empty .
People who may not have a lot of fat at the injection site should also be injected in the mid - lateral thigh , but before giving the injection , bunch up the thigh to provide a thicker area for injection .
• 5 ) Firmly push the Green Tip straight down ( a 90 ° angle ) against the mid - lateral thigh .
Continue to firmly push until you feel the DuoDote autoinjector trigger .
After the autoinjector triggers , hold the DuoDote autoinjector firmly in place against the injection site for approximately 10 seconds .
• 6 ) Remove the DuoDote autoinjector from the thigh and look at Green Tip .
If the needle is visible , the drug has been administered .
If the needle is not visible , check to be sure the Gray Safety Release has been removed , and then repeat above steps beginning with Step 4 , but push harder in Step 5 .
• 7 ) After the drug has been administered , push the needle against a hard surface to bend the needle back against the DuoDote autoinjector .
• 8 ) Put the used DuoDote autoinjector back into the plastic pouch , if available .
Leave used DuoDote autoinjector ( s ) with the patient to allow other medical personnel to see the number of DuoDote autoinjector ( s ) administered .
• 9 ) Immediately move yourself and the patient away from the contaminated area and seek definitive medical care for the patient .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each single - dose DuoDote autoinjector contains the following in two separate chambers : • front chamber ( visible ) : a clear , colorless to yellow , sterile solution of atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ) • back chamber ( not visible ) : a clear , colorless to yellow , sterile solution of pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL ) equivalent to pralidoxime ( 476 . 6 mg / 2 mL ) When activated , DuoDote sequentially administers both drugs intramuscularly through a single needle in one injection .
Each single - dose DuoDote autoinjector contains atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ) plus pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiovascular ( CV ) Risks : Tachycardia , palpitations , premature ventricular contractions , flutter , fibrillation , etc .
Use caution in patients with known CV disease or conduction problems .
( 5 . 1 ) • Heat Injury : May inhibit sweating and lead to hyperthermia ; avoid excessive exercising and heat exposure .
( 5 . 2 ) • Acute Glaucoma : May precipitate in susceptible individuals .
( 5 . 3 ) • Urinary Retention : Administer with caution in patient with bladder outflow obstruction .
( 5 . 4 ) • Pyloric Stenosis : May convert into complete obstruction .
( 5 . 5 ) • Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease : Atropine may cause inspissation of bronchial secretions and formation of dangerous viscid plugs in individuals with chronic lung disease ; monitor respiratory status .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Risks Cardiovascular adverse reactions reported in the literature for atropine include , but are not limited to , sinus tachycardia , palpitations , premature ventricular contractions , atrial flutter , atrial fibrillation , ventricular flutter , ventricular fibrillation , cardiac syncope , asystole , and myocardial infarction .
In patients with a recent myocardial infarction and / or severe coronary artery disease , there is a possibility that atropine - induced tachycardia may cause ischemia , extend or initiate myocardial infarcts , and stimulate ventricular ectopy and fibrillation .
DuoDote should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease or cardiac conduction problems .
5 . 2 Heat Injury Atropine may inhibit sweating which , in a warm environment or with excessive exercise , can lead to hyperthermia and heat injury .
To the extent feasible , avoid excessive exercise and heat exposure [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Acute Glaucoma Atropine should be administered with caution in patients at risk for acute glaucoma .
5 . 4 Urinary Retention Atropine should be administered with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
5 . 5 Pyloric Stenosis Atropine should be administered with caution in patients with partial pyloric stenosis because of the risk of complete pyloric obstruction .
5 . 6 Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease Atropine may cause inspissation of bronchial secretions and formation of dangerous viscid plugs in individuals with chronic lung disease .
Respiratory status should be monitored in individuals with chronic lung disease following administration of DuoDote .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular Risks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Heat Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Acute Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Urinary Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Pyloric Stenosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of atropine and pralidoxime chloride were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Common adverse reactions of atropine include dryness of mouth , blurred vision , dry eyes , photophobia , confusion , headache , and dizziness among others .
( 6 . 1 ) The common adverse reactions of pralidoxime chloride include changes in vision , dizziness , headache , drowsiness , nausea , tachycardia , increased blood pressure , muscular weakness , dry mouth , emesis , rash , dry skin , hyperventilation , decreased renal function , excitement , manic behavior , and transient elevation of liver enzymes and creatine phosphokinase .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC at 1 - 833 - 739 - 0945 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Atropine Because DuoDote contains pralidoxime chloride , which may potentiate the effect of atropine , signs of atropinization may occur earlier than might be expected when atropine is used alone .
Common adverse reactions of atropine can be attributed to its antimuscarinic action .
These include dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , dry eyes , photophobia , confusion , headache , dizziness , tachycardia , palpitations , flushing , urinary hesitancy or retention , constipation , abdominal pain , abdominal distention , nausea and vomiting , loss of libido , and impotence .
Anhidrosis may produce heat intolerance and impairment of temperature regulation in a hot environment .
Dysphagia , paralytic ileus , acute angle closure glaucoma , maculopapular rash , petechial rash , and scarletiniform rash have also been reported .
Adverse cardiac reactions , including arrhythmias and myocardial infarction , have been reported with atropine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Larger doses of atropine may produce central nervous system effects such as restlessness , tremor , fatigue , locomotor difficulties , delirium , and hallucinations [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions will occasionally occur , are usually seen as skin rashes , and may progress to exfoliation .
Anaphylactic reaction and laryngospasm are rare .
6 . 2 Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime can cause blurred vision , diplopia and impaired accommodation , dizziness , headache , drowsiness , nausea , tachycardia , increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , muscular weakness , dry mouth , emesis , rash , dry skin , hyperventilation , decreased renal function , and decreased sweating when given parenterally to normal adult volunteers who have not been exposed to anticholinesterase poisons .
In several cases of organophosphorus poisoning , excitement and manic behavior have occurred immediately following recovery of consciousness , in either the presence or absence of pralidoxime administration .
However , similar behavior has not been reported in subjects given pralidoxime in the absence of organophosphorus poisoning .
Elevations in AST and / or ALT enzyme levels were observed in 1 of 6 normal adult volunteers given 1200 mg of pralidoxime intramuscularly , and in 4 of 6 adult volunteers given 1800 mg intramuscularly .
Levels returned to normal in about two weeks .
Transient elevations in creatine kinase were observed in all normal volunteers given the drug .
6 . 3 Injection Site Muscle tightness and pain may occur at the injection site .
6 . 4 Inadvertent Injection In cases where DuoDote is inadvertently administered to people who are not poisoned with nerve agent or organophosphorus insecticide , the following effects on their ability to function normally may occur .
• Atropine 2 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of one DuoDote autoinjector , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with minimal effects on visual , motor , and mental functions , though unsteadiness walking and difficulty concentrating may occur .
Atropine reduces body sweating and increases body temperature , particularly with exercise and under hot conditions .
• Atropine 4 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of two DuoDote autoinjectors , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with impaired visual acuity , visual near point accommodation , logical reasoning , digital recall , learning , and cognitive reaction time .
Ability to read is reduced or lost .
Subjects are unsteady and need to concentrate on walking .
These effects begin about 15 minutes to one hour or more post - dose .
• Atropine 6 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of three DuoDote autoinjectors , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with the effects described above plus additional central effects including poor coordination , poor attention span , and visual hallucinations ( colored flashes ) in many subjects .
Frank visual hallucinations , auditory hallucinations , disorientation , and ataxia occur in some subjects .
Skilled and labor - intense tasks are performed more slowly and less efficiently .
Decision making takes longer and is sometimes impaired .
It is unclear if the above data , obtained from studies of healthy adult subjects , can be extrapolated to other populations .
In the elderly and patients with co - morbid conditions , the effects of ≥ 2 mg atropine on the ability to see , walk , and think properly are unstudied ; effects may be greater in susceptible populations .
Patients who are mistakenly injected with DuoDote should avoid potentially dangerous overheating , avoid vigorous physical activity , and seek medical attention as soon as feasible .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Succinylcholine and Mivacurium : Accelerated reversal of neuromuscular blocking effects may occur ; monitor with concomitant administration .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Succinylcholine and Mivacurium Since pralidoxime in DuoDote reactivates cholinesterases and succinylcholine and mivacurium are metabolized by cholinesterases , patients with organophosphorus nerve agent or organophosphorus insecticide poisoning who have received DuoDote may exhibit accelerated reversal of the neuromuscular blocking effects of succinylcholine and mivacurium ( relative to poisoned patients who have not received pralidoxime ) .
Monitor for neuromuscular effects with concomitant administration .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric patients may be more susceptible to the effects of atropine .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Atropine readily crosses the placental barrier and enters fetal circulation .
There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of atropine , pralidoxime , or the combination in pregnant women .
Adequate animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine , pralidoxime , or the combination .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Atropine has been reported to be excreted in human milk .
It is not known whether pralidoxime is excreted in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of atropine or pralidoxime on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drugs on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for DuoDote and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from DuoDote or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of atropine in DuoDote in patients weighing more than 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) is supported by published literature .
Safety and effectiveness of pralidoxime chloride in DuoDote in patients more than 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) is supported by data from pharmacokinetic studies in adults and experience in the pediatric population .
Adverse events seen in pediatric patients treated with atropine are similar to those that occur in adult patients , although central nervous system complaints are often seen earlier and at lower doses [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of DuoDote in pediatric patients weighing less than or equal to 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Geriatric patients may be more susceptible to the effects of atropine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Pralidoxime chloride can cause decreased renal function [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with severe renal impairment may require less frequent doses after the initial dose .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with severe hepatic impairment may require less frequent doses after the initial dose .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms Atropine Manifestations of atropine overdose are dose - related and include flushing , dry skin and mucous membranes , tachycardia , widely dilated pupils that are poorly responsive to light , blurred vision , and fever ( which can sometimes be dangerously elevated ) .
Locomotor difficulties , disorientation , hallucinations , delirium , confusion , agitation , coma , and central depression can occur and may last 48 hours or longer .
In instances of severe atropine intoxication , respiratory depression , coma , circulatory collapse , and death may occur .
Pralidoxime It may be difficult to differentiate adverse events caused by pralidoxime from those caused by organophosphorus poisoning .
Symptoms of pralidoxime overdose may include dizziness , blurred vision , diplopia , headache , impaired accommodation , nausea , and tachycardia .
Transient hypertension caused by pralidoxime may last several hours .
10 . 2 Treatment For atropine overdose , supportive treatment should be administered .
If respiration is depressed , artificial respiration with oxygen is necessary .
Ice bags , a hypothermia blanket , or other methods of cooling may be required to reduce atropine - induced fever , especially in pediatric patients .
Catheterization may be necessary if urinary retention occurs .
Since atropine elimination largely takes place through the kidney , urinary output must be maintained and increased if possible ; intravenous fluids may be indicated .
Because of atropine - induced photophobia , the room should be darkened .
A benzodiazepine may be needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
However , large doses for sedation should be avoided because the central nervous system depressant effect may coincide with the depressant effect occurring late in severe atropine poisoning .
Barbiturates are potentiated by the anticholinesterases ; therefore , barbiturates should be used cautiously in the treatment of convulsions .
Central nervous system stimulants are not recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Each prefilled DuoDote autoinjector provides a single intramuscular dose of atropine , a cholinergic muscarinic antagonist , and pralidoxime chloride , a cholinesterase reactivator , in a self - contained unit , specifically designed for administration by emergency medical services personnel .
When activated , each single - dose DuoDote autoinjector delivers the following : • 2 . 1 mg of atropine in 0 . 7 mL of sterile , pyrogen - free solution containing 12 . 47 mg glycerin , not more than 2 . 8 mg phenol , 3 . 05 mg sodium citrate dihydrate , 3 . 5 mg citric acid monohydrate , and Water for Injection .
The pH range is 4 . 0 – 5 . 0 .
• 600 mg of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg of pralidoxime in 2 mL of sterile , pyrogen - free solution containing 40 mg benzyl alcohol , 22 . 5 mg glycine , and Water for Injection .
The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
The pH range is 2 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
Atropine occurs as white crystals , usually needle - like , or as a white , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water with a molecular weight of 289 . 38 .
Atropine , a naturally occurring belladonna alkaloid , is a racemic mixture of equal parts of d - and l - hyoscyamine , with activity due almost entirely to the levo isomer of the drug .
Chemically , atropine is designated as 1αH , 5αH - Tropan - 3α - ol ( ± ) - tropate .
Its empirical formula is C17H23NO3 and its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralidoxime chloride is an odorless , white to pale - yellow crystalline powder , freely soluble in water , with a molecular weight of 172 . 61 .
Chemically , pralidoxime chloride is designated as 2 - formyl - l - methylpyridinium chloride oxime .
Its empirical formula is C7H9ClN2O and its structural formula is indicated above .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine Atropine competitively blocks the effects of acetylcholine , including excess acetylcholine due to organophosphorus poisoning , at muscarinic cholinergic receptors on smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , secretory gland cells , and in peripheral autonomic ganglia and the central nervous system .
Pralidoxime Pralidoxime reactivates acetylcholinesterase which has been inactivated by phosphorylation due to an organophosphorus nerve agent or insecticide .
However , pralidoxime does not reactivate acetylcholinesterase inactivated by all organophosphorus nerve agents ( e . g . , soman ) .
Pralidoxime cannot reactivate phosphorylated acetylcholinesterases that have undergone a further chemical reaction known as “ aging . ”
Reactivated acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes excess acetylcholine resulting from organophosphorus poisoning to help restore impaired cholinergic neural function .
Reactivation is clinically important because only a small proportion of active acetylcholinesterase is needed to maintain vital functions .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Atropine Atropine reduces secretions in the mouth and respiratory passages , relieves airway constriction , and may reduce centrally - mediated respiratory paralysis .
In severe organophosphorus poisoning , a fully atropinized patient may develop or continue to have respiratory failure and may require artificial respiration and suctioning of airway secretions .
Atropine may cause thickening of secretions .
Atropine - induced parasympathetic inhibition may be preceded by a transient phase of stimulation , especially on the heart where small doses first slow the rate before characteristic tachycardia develops due to paralysis of vagal control .
Atropine increases heart rate and reduces atrioventricular conduction time .
Adequate atropine doses can prevent or abolish bradycardia or asystole produced by organophosphorus nerve agents .
Atropine may decrease the degree of partial heart block which can occur after organophosphorus poisoning .
In some patients with complete heart block , atropine may accelerate the idioventricular rate ; in others , the rate is stabilized .
In some patients with conduction defects , atropine may cause paradoxical atrioventricular ( A - V ) block and nodal rhythm .
Atropine will not act on the neuromuscular junction and has no effect on muscle paralysis or weakness , fasciculations or tremors ; pralidoxime is intended to treat these symptoms .
Systemic doses of atropine slightly raise systolic and lower diastolic pressures and can produce significant postural hypotension .
Such doses also slightly increase cardiac output and decrease central venous pressure .
Atropine can dilate cutaneous blood vessels , particularly the “ blush ” area ( atropine flush ) , and may inhibit sweating , thereby causing hyperthermia , particularly in a warm environment or with exercise [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime chloride has its most critical effect in relieving respiratory muscle paralysis .
Because pralidoxime is less effective in relieving depression of the respiratory center , atropine is always required concomitantly to block the effect of accumulated acetylcholine at this site .
Pralidoxime has a minor role in relieving muscarinic signs and symptoms , such as salivation or bronchospasm .
DuoDote temporarily increases blood pressure , a known effect of pralidoxime .
In a study of 24 healthy young adults administered a single dose of atropine and pralidoxime autoinjector intramuscularly ( approximately 9 mg / kg pralidoxime chloride ) , diastolic blood pressure increased from baseline by 11 ± 14 mm Hg ( mean ± SD ) , and systolic blood pressure increased by 16 ± 19 mm Hg , at 15 minutes post - dose .
Blood pressures remained elevated at these approximate levels through one hour post - dose , began to decrease at two hours post - dose and were near pre - dose baseline at four hours post - dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Atropine : Atropine is well absorbed after intramuscular administration .
Single dose DuoDote pharmacokinetic data for atropine are shown in Figure 1 .
The intramuscular injection site was the antero - lateral thigh .
Mean atropine plasma concentrations shown in Figure 1 indicate a plateau beginning at about 5 minutes post - dose and extending through 60 minutes post - dose .
Figure 1 .
Mean Atropine Plasma Concentrations After a Single DuoDote Intramuscular Injection , Which Delivers 2 . 1 mg of Atropine Base and 600 mg Pralidoxime Chloride , N = 24 Healthy Adult Subjects [ Men ( n = 12 ) , Women ( n = 12 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralidoxime Chloride : Pralidoxime chloride is rapidly absorbed after intramuscular injection .
DuoDote single dose pharmacokinetic data for pralidoxime chloride 600 mg are provided in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 .
Mean Pralidoxime Plasma Concentrations After a Single DuoDote Intramuscular Injection , Which Delivers 2 . 1 mg of Atropine and 600 mg Pralidoxime Chloride , N = 24 Healthy Adult Subjects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The pharmacokinetic properties of the components of DuoDote are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Properties of the Components of DuoDote Following Intramuscular Administration in Healthy Subjects Pharmacokinetics related to : Atropine Pralidoxime Absorption Cmax ( mean ± standard deviation ) 13 ± 3 ng / mL 7 ± 3 mcg / mL Tmax ( mean ± standard deviation ) 31 ± 30 minutes 28 ± 15 minutes Distribution Protein binding 14 to 22 % to plasma proteins Not appreciable bound to serum proteins Elimination T ½ 2 . 4 ± 0 . 3 hours 2 ± 1 hours Major route of excretion Urinary Urinary Percentage of dose excreted in urine 50 to 60 % as unchanged drug .
About 17 to 28 % eliminated in the first 100 minutes .
72 to 94 % as unchanged drug .
About 57 to 70 % eliminated in the first 30 minutes , partly as metabolite .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Specific Populations Renal and Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of atropine or pralidoxime have not been evaluated in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment .
Gender Atropine : DuoDote AUC0 - inf and Cmax values for atropine are 15 % higher in females than males .
The half - life of atropine is approximately 20 minutes shorter in females than males .
Pralidoxime Chloride : A single DuoDote injection produced a mean Cmax for pralidoxime about 36 % higher in females than males .
Tmax is 23 minutes in females and 32 minutes in males .
Pralidoxime half - life in males and females are 153 and 107 minutes , respectively .
Geriatric Atropine : Half - life of intravenous atropine is 3 . 0 ± 0 . 9 hours in adults and 10 . 0 ± 7 . 3 hours in geriatric patients ( 65 - 75 years of age ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis DuoDote is indicated for short - term emergency use only , and no adequate studies regarding the carcinogenic potential of atropine or pralidoxime chloride have been conducted .
Mutagenesis Studies to assess the mutagenic potential of atropine or pralidoxime chloride have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Atropine : In studies in which male rats were orally administered atropine ( 62 . 5 to 125 mg / kg ) for one week prior to mating and throughout a 5 - day mating period with untreated females , a dose - related decrease in fertility was observed .
A no - effect dose for male reproductive toxicity was not established .
The lowest dose tested was 290 times ( on a mg / m2 basis ) the dose of atropine in a single application of DuoDote ( 2 . 1 mg ) .
Fertility studies of atropine in females have not been conducted .
Pralidoxime Chloride : The effects of pralidoxime chloride on fertility have not been assessed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each single - dose DuoDote ( atropine and pralidoxime chloride ) autoinjector contains atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ; colorless to yellow solution , visible in front chamber ) and pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL ; colorless to yellow solution , not visible in rear chamber ) and is available in a single unit carton , NDC - 11704 - 620 - 01 .
Each DuoDote autoinjector is supplied in a pouch that provides protection from light .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted between 15ºC and 30ºC ( between 59ºF and 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
Keep from freezing .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Use by Healthcare Providers DuoDote is intended for use by Healthcare Providers .
See the illustrated Instruction Sheet for Healthcare Providers .
Seek Definitive Medical Care If feasible and appropriate , advise patients that DuoDote is an initial emergency treatment , that they need additional care at a healthcare facility .
Avoid Overheating If feasible and appropriate , advise the patient to avoid a hot environment and excessive physical activity since DuoDote can inhibit sweating which can lead to overheating and heat injury .
Manufactured by : Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC St . Louis , MO 63146 Instruction Sheet for Healthcare Providers DuoDote is a single - dose autoinjector that should be administered by healthcare providers who have had adequate training in the recognition and treatment of nerve agent or insecticide intoxication .
Individuals should not rely solely upon atropine and pralidoxime to provide complete protection from chemical nerve agents and insecticide poisoning .
Primary protection against exposure to chemical nerve agents and insecticide poisoning is the wearing of protective garments including masks designed specifically for this use .
Evacuation and decontamination procedures should be undertaken as soon as possible .
Medical personnel assisting evacuated victims of nerve agent poisoning should avoid contaminating themselves by exposure to the victim ' s clothing .
DuoDote is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by organophosphorus nerve agents as well as organophosphorus insecticides in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 41 kg ( 90 pounds ) .
DuoDote should only be administered to patients experiencing symptoms of organophosphorus poisoning in a situation where exposure is known or suspected .
DuoDote should be administered as soon as symptoms of organophosphorus poisoning appear .
The number of DuoDote autoinjectors to administer to an individual is based on severity of symptoms .
Common symptoms of organophosphorus exposure are listed below .
Individuals may not have all symptoms : Mild Symptoms Severe Symptoms • Blurred vision , miosis • Excessive , unexplained teary eyes • Excessive , unexplained runny nose • Increased salivation such as sudden drooling • Chest tightness or difficulty breathing • Tremors throughout the body or muscular twitching • Nausea and / or vomiting • Unexplained wheezing , coughing or increased airway secretions • Acute onset of stomach cramps • Tachycardia or bradycardia • Strange or confused behavior • Severe difficulty breathing or copious secretions from lungs / airway • Severe muscular twitching and general weakness • Involuntary urination and defecation • Convulsions • Unconsciousness Dosage for Mild Symptoms in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing More Than 41 kg ( 90 Pounds ) First Dose : Administer one ( 1 ) DuoDote injection into the mid - lateral thigh if the patient experiences two or more mild symptoms of nerve agent or insecticide exposure .
Trained healthcare providers with mild symptoms may self - administer a single - dose of DuoDote .
Wait 10 to 15 minutes for DuoDote to take effect .
If , after 10 to 15 minutes , the patient does not develop any of the severe symptoms listed above , no additional DuoDote injections are recommended , but definitive medical care should ordinarily be sought immediately .
For healthcare providers who have self - administered DuoDote , an individual decision will need to be made to determine their capacity to continue to provide emergency care .
Additional Doses : If , at any time after the first dose , the patient develops any of the severe symptoms listed above , administer two ( 2 ) additional DuoDote injections in rapid succession , and immediately seek definitive medical care .
Dosage for Severe Symptoms in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing More Than 41 kg ( 90 Pounds ) If a patient has any of the severe symptoms listed above , immediately administer three ( 3 ) DuoDote injections into the patient ' s mid - lateral thigh in rapid succession , and immediately seek definitive medical care .
Emergency care of the severely poisoned individual should include removal of oral and bronchial secretions , maintenance of a patent airway , supplemental oxygen , and , if necessary , artificial ventilation .
An anticonvulsant such as a benzodiazepine may be administered to treat convulsions if suspected in the unconscious individual .
The effects of nerve agents and some insecticides can mask the motor signs of a seizure .
Close supervision of all severely poisoned patients is indicated for at least 48 to 72 hours .
Instructions for Use of the DuoDote Autoinjector Do Not Remove Gray Safety Release until ready to use Never touch the Green Tip ( Needle End ) !
Weight Guidelines [ MULTIMEDIA ] For use with adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 41 kg ( 90 lb ) .
For patients weighing less than or equal to 41 kg ( 90 lb ) use the appropriate dose of : • ATROPEN ® or atropine from a vial • Pralidoxime chloride from a vial • 1 ) Tear open the plastic pouch at any of the notches .
Remove the DuoDote autoinjector from the pouch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 ) Place the DuoDote autoinjector in your dominant hand .
( If you are right - handed , your right hand is dominant . )
Firmly grasp the center of the DuoDote autoinjector with the Green Tip ( needle end ) pointing down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 ) With your other hand , pull off the Gray Safety Release .
DuoDote is now ready to be administered .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 ) The injection site is the mid - lateral thigh area .
The DuoDote autoinjector can inject through clothing .
However , make sure pockets at the injection site are empty .
People who may not have a lot of fat at the injection site should also be injected in the mid - lateral thigh , but before giving the injection , bunch up the thigh to provide a thicker area of injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 ) Firmly push the Green Tip straight down ( at a 90 ° angle ) against the mid - lateral thigh .
Continue to firmly push until you feel the DuoDote autoinjector trigger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] IMPORTANT : After the autoinjector triggers , hold the DuoDote autoinjector firmly in place against the injection site for approximately 10 seconds .
• 6 ) Remove the DuoDote autoinjector from the thigh and look at the Green Tip .
If the needle is visible , the drug has been administered .
If the needle is not visible , check to be sure the Gray Safety Release has been removed , and then repeat above steps beginning with Step 4 , but push harder in Step 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 ) After the drug has been administered , push the needle against a hard surface to bend the needle back against the DuoDote autoinjector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 ) Put the used DuoDote autoinjector back into the plastic pouch , if available .
Leave used DuoDote autoinjector ( s ) with the patient to allow other medical personnel to see the number of DuoDote autoinjector ( s ) administered .
• 9 ) Immediately move yourself and the patient away from the contaminated area and seek definitive medical care for the patient .
DuoDote ® is a registered trademark of : Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC St . Louis , MO 63146 1 - 833 - 739 - 0945 © 2022 by Meridian Medical Technologies , LLC Revised : 06 / 2022 0002165 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - DuoDote Carton Label For use in Nerve Agent or Insecticide Poisoning For adults and pediatric patients weighing 41 kg + or 90 lb + NDC 11704 - 620 - 01 Rx Only DuoDote ® Single - Dose Auto - Injector ( atropine and pralidoxime chloride injection ) Each auto - injector delivers an intramuscular injection of 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL of atropine and 600 mg / 2 mL ( 300 mg / mL ) of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg of pralidoxime Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Keep from freezing .
Protect from light .
11704 - 62001 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - DuoDote Pouch Label For use in Nerve Agent or Insecticide Poisoning For adults and pediatric patients weighing 41 kg + or 90 lb + Rx Only MERIDIAN MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES ® DuoDote ® ( atropine and pralidoxime chloride injection ) Single - Dose Auto - Injector Each auto - injector delivers an intramuscular injection of 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL of atropine 600 mg / 2 mL ( 300 mg / mL ) of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg of pralidoxime Usual dosage : See insert Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Keep from freezing .
Protect from light .
Manufactured By / Distributed By Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC St . Louis , MO 63146 0002197 NDC 11704 62001 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - DuoDote Syringe Label Rx Only NDC 11704 62001 Do not place fingers on green tip ( needled end ) Usual dosage : See insert .
DuoDote ® ( atropine and pralidoxime chloride injection ) Single - Dose Auto - Injector Delivers an intramuscular injection of 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL of atropine 600 mg / 2 mL ( 300 mg / mL ) of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg of pralidoxime For use in Nerve Agent or Insecticide Poisoning For adults and pediatric patients weighing 41 kg + or 90 lb + For product inquiry call 1 - 833 - 739 - 0945 Manufactured By / Distributed By Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC St . Louis , MO 63146 © 2020 Meridian Medical Technologies [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
