Rx only DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( 2 - dimethylaminoethyl - 2 - methylbenzhydryl ether citrate ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol .
Each orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablet contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate , USP .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets also contain ethylcellulose NF , povidone USP , lactose monohydrate NF , and magnesium stearate NF .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculo skeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine citrate .
It is also not know whether orphenadrine citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine citrate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine are mainly due to the mild anti - cholinergic action of orphenadrine , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
[ 1 ] The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
[ 2 ] OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anticholinergic effects .
[ 3 ] In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 grams to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
[ 4 ] Treatment for orphenadrine overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring , and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anticholinergic effects .
[ 5 ] DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets : Adults - Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - release Tablets , 100 mg - Each round , white , convex tablet imprinted with “ G ” on one side and “ 2011 ” on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 0115 - 2011 - 01 Bottles of 500 : NDC 0115 - 2011 - 02 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in tightly - closed , light - resistant container ( USP ) .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 124 - 05 Rev . 01 - 2019 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0115 - 2011 - 01 Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets 100 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0115 - 2011 - 02 Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets 100 mg Rx only 500 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
