Active ingredient ( in each lozenge ) Nicotine polacrilex , 2 mg ( nicotine ) Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • stomach ulcer or diabetes • • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • mouth problems occur • • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness or rapid heartbeat • • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you .
• • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine lozenge • • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow lozenge .
• • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects • • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
• • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • keep vial tightly closed and protect from light Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , calcium polycarbophil , magnesium stearate , mannitol , natural and artificial mint flavor , potassium bicarbonate , sodium alginate , sodium carbonate , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 866 - 751 - 9303 Consumer Information Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge 2 mg and 4 mg User ' s Guide mini Lozenge How to Use Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges and Tips to Help You Quit Smoking .
• Not for sale to those under 18 years of age • Proof of age required • Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified PLANNING YOUR SUCCESS 1 ) The key to accomplishing anything important is commitment .
When it comes to quitting smoking , that is especially true .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges can help if you really want to quit .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges help reduce withdrawal symptoms including nicotine craving associated with quitting smoking .
2 ) Your chances of staying off cigarettes are much better if you start with at least 9 mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges daily .
For best results , use the lozenges on a regular schedule ( as outlined in this User ' s Guide ) .
3 ) Start using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges on your quit date .
4 ) This User ' s Guide outlines a 12 - week plan for mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Even though you may feel confident about your non - smoking status after a few weeks , it ' s important to stick with the plan to help you remain smoke free .
Even a single cigarette can put you right back to square one .
5 ) Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges work best when used together with a support plan .
See information to the right for instructions on enrollment in the SmokeFreeHabits . com Free & Personalized Support Plan .
6 ) After the first six weeks , start using fewer mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges , as directed in the instructions , gradually reducing your use over the next six weeks .
If you feel the need to use the lozenges for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
7 ) If you have questions about using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges , please talk to your pharmacist , family doctor , or call toll - free 1 - 866 - 751 - 9303 .
YES !
YOU WANT TO QUIT .
Wonderful .
You ' ve made the most important decision of all , to stop smoking .
And by choosing mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges to help you , you ' re starting on the right path .
Now remember , using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges does n't just mean taking a mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge .
It means setting and following a program like the one we suggest in this User ' s Guide .
Your own success depends on your effort , your level of addiction to tobacco , and your commitment to following your program .
LET ' S FACE IT .
Quitting smoking is n't easy !
You or someone you know may have tried unsuccessfully .
That ' s okay .
It ' s hard to stop smoking the first time you try .
The important part is to learn from your previous attempts , consider what went wrong and keep trying to quit until you succeed .
Look to this User ' s Guide for support as you undergo this terrific task .
The guide includes important information on how to use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges and also gives you tips to help you stop smoking .
Refer back to it often for advice , answers , and encouragement to help you stay on track .
GET MOTIVATED .
STAY MOTIVATED .
Everyone has a reason for quitting – whether you ' re concerned about your health , your appearance , family or peer pressure , or the effect of secondhand smoke on your loved ones – all of the above , or something else entirely .
Whatever your reasons , write them down .
There ' s a wallet card on the bottom of this User ' s Guide .
Write your reasons on the card and carry it with you .
When you have an urge to smoke or experience a difficult moment it can help you focus on your reasons for quitting .
Lots of people quit with a co - worker , spouse or friend and use them as a quitting buddy .
You can help each other out by providing extra encouragement in tough moments .
There may be support groups in your area for people trying to quit .
Call your local chapter of the American Lung Association , American Cancer Society or American Heart Association for further information . Toll free phone numbers are printed on the wallet card on the bottom of this User ' s Guide .
UNDERSTANDING THE DOUBLE - EDGED SWORD .
Smoking has two addictive components , a physical and a mental need for the nicotine in tobacco .
You need to conquer both to succeed .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges can ease your physical nicotine addiction .
But your readiness and resolve are necessary to help overcome the mental side of your cigarette dependence .
So once you ' re ready , it ' s time to begin .
But first , read and consider the following important warnings .
IMPORTANT WARNINGS This product is only for those who want to stop smoking .
If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • stomach ulcers or diabetes .
• • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • mouth problems occur • • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness or rapid heartbeat • • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
YOU ’ RE READY TO START .
Okay , you ' re ready .
To become a non - smoker , start today .
Now before you do anything else , you have a bit of planning to do .
Read this User ' s Guide all the way through .
You want to make sure you bought the right dose to start .
If you typically smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use the 4 mg mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
If you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use the 2 mg mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Next , plan your quitting schedule .
Get a calendar to follow your progress and mark the following four important dates ( see the reminders on the left side of this leaflet ) .
THE PROGRAM STEP 1 .
( Weeks 1 - 6 ) Starting on your quit date it ' s best to use at least 9 mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges each day , one every 1 - 2 hours .
First choose the day you plan to quit ( make it soon ) .
Place the Step 1 reminder on this date .
That ' s the day you will start using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges to calm your cravings for nicotine and help you stay smoke free .
Prior to the quit date , get rid of all your cigarettes to remove temptations and make it more difficult to start smoking again .
Use a mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge every 1 to 2 hours and at least 9 lozenges each day for the first 6 weeks to help prevent unexpected cravings and improve your chances of quitting .
These are n't ordinary lozenges .
Place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow the lozenge .
You may feel a warm or tingling sensation .
Occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved .
Remember to read the USING mini Nicotine Polacrilex LOZENGES PROPERLY section before you take your first mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge .
STEP 2 .
( The next three weeks , that is weeks 7 - 9 ) .
At the beginning of week 7 start using fewer mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges , one every 2 - 4 hours .
After six weeks , you should wait a little longer between lozenges , one lozenge every two to four hours .
This will help you gradually use fewer mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Put the Step 2 reminder on the first day of week 7 to help remind you when to start reducing the number of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges you take .
STEP 3 .
( The last three weeks , that is weeks 10 - 12 ) .
At the beginning of week 10 , reduce mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge use even further , one every 4 - 8 hours .
At the beginning of week 10 further decrease the number of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges you use each day to reduce the amount of nicotine you get .
You should do this by using one lozenge every 4 to 8 hours .
Put the Step 3 reminder on the first day of week 10 so you know when you should be starting this last step to becoming smoke - and nicotine - free .
END .
At the end of week 12 you ’ ll complete mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges therapy .
Put the “ EX - SMOKER ” reminder on your calendar on the date 12 weeks after the day you stopped smoking and started using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
BE PREPARED .
Since smoking is an addiction , it is hard to quit .
Even after you stop , there will be times when you WANT a cigarette , sometimes strongly .
( See also section on “ Challenges To Watch For ” ) .
The best defense is to be prepared .
Plan now for handling tough times so you do n't give in .
For example : think about situations when you usually get a craving for cigarettes or where you think you might experience strong cravings .
Try to avoid these situations where you can ( for example , avoid spending time with smokers , or drinking alcohol , if those things tempt you to smoke ) .
Change your habits .
For example , take your coffee break somewhere else .
Take a walk .
In other words , break the association between your usual habits and cigarettes .
If you do encounter a situation where you feel a strong craving , fight it !
Take a break from the situation ; keep yourself busy or distracted with other activities .
Remind yourself why you want to quit , and above all , remind yourself that having “ just one ” really will hurt your goal of quitting !
To prepare for tough situations , assemble a “ survival package ” – items that can keep you distracted in case you get a craving .
For example , you may include cinnamon gum or hard candy , relaxing music , and things to keep your hands busy like a smooth stone , paper clips , or a rubber ball .
Track your progress as you quit .
Keep a journal .
Write down how many pieces of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges you use each day .
Note if and when you get a craving .
If you slip and have a cigarette , do n't give up .
Stop smoking again and get back on your program with mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Establish your support network .
Keep friends ' and family members ' phone numbers ready to get the moral support you need .
Before quitting , ask friends and family to support and encourage you .
Think of specific ways they can help .
Reward yourself .
Set aside little gifts to yourself such as a CD or video , which you can earn by overcoming difficult hurdles .
HOW mini Nicotine Polacrilex LOZENGES WORK .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges are a form of Nicotine Replacement Therapy .
They deliver nicotine to your body , temporarily relieving craving and nicotine withdrawal symptoms when you quit smoking .
But unlike cigarettes , mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges deliver a lower , steady level of nicotine to your blood .
When used as directed , mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges help you regulate , control , and gradually reduce your body ' s craving for nicotine .
The good news is that mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges contain no tar or carbon monoxide , and therefore do n't present the same medical risks as cigarettes .
However , the lozenges still deliver nicotine , the addictive ingredient in cigarettes .
And for some people the nicotine in mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges can occasionally cause mouth or throat irritation , headaches , nausea , hiccups , upset stomach or dizziness .
USING mini Nicotine Polacrilex LOZENGES PROPERLY .
Remember , mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges are n't like ordinary lozenges such as cough drops .
This lozenge is designed to deliver nicotine into your system through the lining of your mouth , not in your stomach like most other medicines .
It is important to minimize swallowing the dissolved medicine in these lozenges so that it can be properly absorbed in your mouth .
Do not use more than one lozenge at a time , or many lozenges one after another since this can cause hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
Read all the following instructions before using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Refer to them often to make sure you ' re using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges correctly .
IMPORTANT : Do n't worry or give up if you do not like the taste of the lozenge at first .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges are a medication , not a candy .
Most people get used to the taste after a day or two .
Remember , staying with the plan will help you quit .
Begin using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges on your quit date .
1 ) Remove the mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge from the immediate container .
Place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow the lozenge .
You may feel a warm or tingling sensation .
2 ) Occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other side until completely dissolved .
To reduce cravings or urges to smoke and other withdrawal symptoms , use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges according to the following dosage schedule .
Weeks 1 through 6 Weeks 7 through 9 Weeks 10 through 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours Do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
At the end of 12 weeks ( 3 months ) you will have completed treatment .
FOR THE BEST CHANCE OF QUITTING , use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges on a regular schedule , using at least 9 lozenges a day during the first 6 weeks .
That will help your body better adjust to the lack of cigarettes and better help prevent cravings .
Some people may need more lozenges to reduce their cravings .
Do not exceed the recommended maximum daily dosage of 20 lozenges per day .
Do not continuously use one lozenge after another , since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
Do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth .
CUTTING BACK ON YOUR mini Nicotine Polacrilex LOZENGE USAGE .
The whole reason for using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges is to decrease and slowly eliminate your need for nicotine , while you control cravings .
So , as the above schedule indicates , you should gradually reduce the amount of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges you take per day .
Some people find it easier to reduce by substituting ordinary sweets or sugar free candy for some of the mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges they would normally use .
As time goes on , you can increase the number of pieces of candy as you further reduce your use of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
It is important to complete treatment .
If you still feel the need to use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges to keep from smoking after week 12 , talk with your health care provider .
MAKE QUITTING EASIER ON YOURSELF .
Soon after your quit date , parties , bars , celebrations , and socializing may all tempt you to smoke .
Please remember these tips to help you resist those urges and stay smoke - free .
The Day You Quit Smoking : • • Look to your family and friends for support .
Let them know what to do or avoid doing to help you quit .
• • Throw away ALL cigarettes , ashtrays , matches , lighters .
You do n't need them .
You do n't want them and you want to make it difficult to go back .
• • Keep yourself occupied .
Take a walk .
See a movie .
See friends .
Do anything to keep your mind off cigarettes .
• • Calculate all the money you ' ll save by not buying cigarettes .
Probably well over $ 1 , 000 a year !
$ 1 , 000 a year ?
Think of what you can spend it on !
• • Know what situations are going to make you want to smoke .
Plan now how you ' ll avoid them or deal with them so you do n't smoke .
• • Keep mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges next to your bed so you ' re prepared when you get up .
A lot of people get cravings first thing in the morning .
• • Make an appointment to see your dentist and get the tobacco stains cleaned off .
While you ' re getting rid of the evidence of cigarettes in the house , do the same for your teeth .
Have clothes or drapes that smell of smoking cleaned .
• • Now that your house is smoke - free , try to spend most of your time in smoke - free environments .
• • If you usually smoked with coffee or alcohol , try to keep away from them for now .
Remember you are also trying to break a habit .
• • Smoking is a “ hands - on ” habit .
So use something else to occupy your hands : a rubber band or a pen .
• • Now ' s a good time to get active .
Find activities to take your mind off cigarettes and relax .
Take up jogging , swimming , or walking .
• • Do n't stress out about gaining weight .
Dieting now may weaken your efforts to quit smoking .
Eat sensibly and exercise daily ; drink large quantities of water and fruit juices ; this can help your chances of staying smoke - free .
• • Laugh .
Watch a sitcom .
Read a comic book .
It really helps .
REMEMBER : Urges to smoke are temporary .
They ' ll pass , even if you do n't smoke .
WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT .
As you are successful at staying smoke - free , initially you will probably notice a few of the following typical withdrawal symptoms , so do n't be surprised .
Use of mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges reduces these symptoms , but may not eliminate them entirely .
They will go away with time .
Stay focused on your goal of becoming an ex - smoker .
Research shows that if you manage to avoid all smoking in the first week ( that means not having a single puff ) , your chances of success increase dramatically .
The First Few Days .
You may feel nervous or irritable or have difficulty concentrating during the first few days after you quit smoking .
Your body needs time to regain balance .
Initially , you might feel a little out of sorts , get headaches , feel light - headed , or have trouble sleeping .
Your smoker ’ s cough may get worse before it improves .
But fear not , it ’ s a positive sign .
Coughing helps clean your lungs of the tar residue you got from smoking .
After a Couple of Weeks .
Your confidence and ability to cope with urges to smoke should be getting stronger .
But do n't be over - confident and think you can smoke just one cigarette .
Even now , having even a single puff can lead to a return to smoking cigarettes regularly .
Be prepared , and remember why you wanted to stop smoking .
Have you noticed that your sense of taste and smell has improved ?
You are probably coughing less and finding it easier to breathe .
You ' ve also probably noticed your withdrawal symptoms are subsiding ( though do n't worry if they ' re still there : they last longer for some people ) .
These are all positive signs that your body is getting used to your success at stopping smoking .
By The End Of The First Month .
You are less likely to have cravings for cigarettes as often .
However sudden cravings may still happen , and when they do , be on your guard , as they can be strong and seem to come out of the blue .
Be prepared for these challenging times .
The key is do what you can so these unexpected cravings ca n't beat you .
Keep focused on the ways non - smokers are more attractive than smokers .
Their breath smells better .
Their clothes and hair are fresher .
Their teeth are cleaner and brighter .
Their skin is less likely to wrinkle .
Not smoking around children and your friends is also healthier for them too .
What If You Do Slip And Smoke ?
“ What if I relapse ? ”
One cigarette is a slip - up , but it ' s not the end of the quit effort .
Everybody slips at something .
The key is this : forgive yourself and stop at that one cigarette .
Do n't let this slip ruin your good intentions , keep at your quit attempt .
So , throw out your cigarettes and continue with your quit attempt , keeping in mind what went wrong and led to the slip .
If you do go back to smoking , certainly do n't throw out your mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges .
Keep them for the next time you ' re ready to quit .
In fact research says that even if you are back to smoking regularly the best thing you can do is learn and try again .
Try to understand the reason you had those cigarettes that made you slip .
That ’ s important , because now you can plan better to deal with these moments next time .
It ’ s true you stumbled , but don ’ t think of yourself as having failed .
Encourage yourself by treating the last attempt as a learning experience , even a “ trial run ” for the real thing .
Take a look at the usage instructions and check that you used the mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges correctly and for the full 12 weeks of the program .
When you try again make sure you use enough and the right way .
That way you ’ ll be best equipped to deal with the unexpected cravings .
Don ’ t forget ; quitting is n't easy and it takes practice to do anything .
Stopping smoking is no different .
YOU ’ VE MADE IT .
Once your twelve week quitting program is over , you ’ ve taken your last mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge .
Now you are both cigarette and nicotine - free .
Get up and give yourself a standing ovation .
We mean it .
Do you realize that you have just done a really difficult thing ?
Now ’ s a good time to think back on the process .
Think of all your reasons for quitting smoking .
Think of your goals .
Think of how they ’ re going to be a reality now .
Think of what you ’ re going to do with your newly liberated cigarette money .
The places you can now go smoke - free .
Think of the extra time you may have added to your life and what you can do with it .
And although you may still experience the occasional temptation , and cigarettes still want you back , think positively .
Think forward .
And consider yourself a proud non - smoker .
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS .
1 .
When I stop smoking and start using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges how will I feel ?
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges help reduce cravings , but be prepared for some nicotine withdrawal symptoms .
After you stop smoking they can begin almost at once and are normally at their strongest during the first three or four days .
For some people , any of the following may occur : • • unexpected craving or urges for cigarettes • • anxiety , irritability , restlessness , mood changes , nervousness • • drowsiness • • trouble concentrating • • increased appetite and weight gain • • headaches , muscular pain , constipation , fatigue Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges are designed to reduce the craving for nicotine you used to satisfy with cigarettes .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges can also help provide relief from other withdrawal symptoms such as irritability and nervousness .
2 .
Are mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges just swapping one type of nicotine addiction for another ?
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges do contain nicotine , however there is probably less nicotine in your daily dose of lozenges than in your cigarettes .
Mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges give you enough nicotine to help you combat the physical withdrawal symptoms so you can cope with the mental side of stopping smoking .
Also , since the nicotine from the lozenges goes into your blood stream more slowly , it produces less of the effects of nicotine that people find rewarding .
In fact , when used as directed in the 12 week program , mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges gradually wean you off your dependence for both nicotine and cigarettes .
3 .
Can mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges do any harm ?
Some people with conditions like heart disease or people taking prescription medicine for asthma or depression should not use this product without talking to their doctor - check the IMPORTANT WARNINGS on the front of this leaflet .
You may also experience side effects such as hiccups , mouth or throat irritation , heartburn or other stomach problems such as nausea especially if mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges are chewed or swallowed .
In any case , mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges do not contain the tar , carbon monoxide , and other toxins present in cigarette smoke .
4 .
Will I put on weight ?
In the first couple of months after quitting smoking , some people do put on a few pounds .
But think of it this way .
Overall , you ’ ll be healthier and look better .
You can always tackle your weight by changing your diet and increasing the amount you exercise once you have gotten through the difficult part of stopping smoking .
5 .
Does taking mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges cost more than smoking ?
If you normally smoke a pack and a half a day , your total cost of using mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges during the 12 - week period should be less than smoking .
But guess what ?
After you ’ ve finished the mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge program all that money you used to spend on cigarettes is now savings .
And think of the health issues you ’ ll hopefully be able to avoid .
6 .
What if I have a cigarette and start smoking ?
Do n't panic .
First , do n't think badly of yourself .
Throw away your cigarettes and forgive yourself .
Then think about what went wrong and get back on track .
In fact people who have already tried to stop smoking are more likely to be successful the next time .
CHALLENGES TO WATCH FOR .
Once you quit smoking , you are likely to experience periodic , and sometimes intense , temptations to smoke .
Certain situations present special challenges .
Some common ones include : Stress and upset .
When you are feeling stressed or upset , you may think a cigarette will make everything better .
It won ’ t .
Find other ways to relax and unwind .
The blues .
You may be especially vulnerable when you feel bored or blue .
Remember that having a cigarette will just make you feel worse .
Smoking cues .
Seeing cigarettes or watching other people smoke can trigger temptation .
Remember that you choose not to smoke anymore .
Alcohol .
Drinking and smoking seem to go together , and alcoholic beverages may weaken your resolve , making drinking dangerous to your quit effort .
Avoid drinking early in your quit effort , and try to drink with non - smokers .
Automatic slips .
Sometimes you may find yourself preparing to smoke without even realizing it .
Watch out for those moments when your hand seems to ‘ automatically ’ reach for a cigarette .
Watch out for these situations : they can trigger a relapse .
You probably know which one ( s ) are most dangerous for you ; plan ahead to deal with the situation effectively .
Always remember that you ’ re trying to break a habit , and the most important thing is to do something to combat the urge in these situations .
COPING AFTER QUITTING .
The key to staying smoke - free is to prepare for and cope with challenges as they occur .
If you find yourself tempted to smoke , do something !
Here are some things to consider .
• • Escape .
Leave the situation , even for a few minutes .
Most temptations don ’ t last long .
• • Distract yourself .
Get your mind off smoking .
Think of something else or get busy with something .
• • Relax .
Do n't let stress get to you .
Think of pleasant , relaxing things ; breathe slowly and regularly .
Let the stress drain out of you .
• • Talk yourself out of it .
What you say to yourself matters .
So , remind yourself how important it is for you to quit ; remind yourself you ca n't have just one ; or just command yourself to STOP .
For more information please visit www . SmokeFreeHabits . com Packaged By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 95752 00 J2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Free Personalized Plan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Begin Right Now !
Having a plan will help you in your efforts to stop smoking .
We can help ?
Follow the simple steps below to receive your valuable personalized Smoke Free Habits plan and many other stop smoking tools and resources .
How To Enroll Stopping smoking involves breaking your physical addiction and changing your behavior .
You will use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges to help break your physical addiction , while your free personalized plan will help you develop healthier behaviors .
To enroll : • • Go online to www . SmokeFreeHabits . com • • Enter the first five digits of the UPC number from the box .
• • Answer the questions about yourself .
• • Print your personalized plan .
( If you do n't have access to the Internet , you can call 1 - 866 - 751 - 9303 , answer questions , and your plan will be mailed to you in a few days . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What You Will Receive Here are the free tools and resources that you will receive based on how you sign up for the program : Online By Phone Personalized 12 - Week Plan immediately by mail Buddy Brochure immediately by mail Personal Wellness Assessment immediately Week 2 Helpful Tips X Week 3 Helpful Tips X by mail Week 4 Helpful Tips X Week 6 Helpful Tips X by mail Week 9 Helpful Tips X Week 12 Certificate of Accomplishment X by mail Online Drug Database X Daily Health News X Tips To Get Started 1 .
Follow your personalized Smoke Free Habits support plan .
2 .
Be sure to use mini Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenges as directed .
3 .
Throw away all of your cigarettes , lighters , and ashtrays .
4 .
You may feel urges to smoke , but they usually pass in 2 - 3 minutes .
When you feel an urge , do something else .
Take deep breaths and let them out slowly .
Drink a glass of water .
5 .
Carry things to put in your mouth , like gum , hard candy or toothpicks .
6 .
Be active .
Take a walk with a friend , ride your bike , walk the dog , play tennis .
7 .
Go to places where you are not allowed to smoke , like the movies or the mall .
Try to steer clear of places where you usually smoked , like a break room at work or a favorite bar .
8 .
Ask friends or family for support whenever you need it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Mint See New Warnings Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge 2 mg ( nicotine ) Stop Smoking Aid QuitTube ® Includes User ’ s Guide FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE MORE THAN 30 MINUTES AFTER WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette WITHIN 30 MINUTES of waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Lozenge , 4 mg 2 mg mini Lozenge Compare to active ingredient of Nicorette ® mini Lozenge 81 Lozenges , 2 mg Each ( 3 QuitTube ® Containers of 27 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
