Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use • for treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if skin irritation occurs or gets worse .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • wet area to be cleansed • apply acne wash and gently massage area for 1 - 2 minutes • rinse thoroughly and pat dry • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 to 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , decyl glucoside , sodium hydroxypropylsulfonate laurylglucoside crosspolymer , PEG - 40 stearate , propanediol , sorbitan stearate , stearic acid , ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , diethylhexyl sodium sulfosuccinate , carbomer , dimethicone , silica , sodium citrate , xanthan gum , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 567 - 8600 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 156 g Tube Carton meijer ® Compare to PanOxyl ® Active Ingredient * MAXIMUM STRENGTH foaming acne face wash Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % For treatment of acne on face , chest & back SULFATE FREE , PHTHALATE FREE & PARABEN FREE Helps to improve the appearance of existing blemishes Helps to prevent future breakouts NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
