DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient : Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose : Antifungal Uses treats most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm .
Relieves itching , scaling , cracking , burning , redness , soreness , irritation , discomfort , and chafing associated with jock itch .
Relieves itchy , scaly skin between the toes or itching , burning feet associated with athlete ' s foot Ask your health professional regarding additional uses Warnings Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor • Do not use on diaper rash For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks • for jock itch if irritation occurs of if there is no improvement with - in 2 weeks When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
Supervise children in the use of this product .
For athlete ' s foot pay special attention to the spaces between the toes , wear well fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
For athlete ' s foot and ringworm use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other Information store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
To report an adverse event or obtain product information , contact ( 404 ) 521 - 0857 .
Other Ingredients Fragrance , paraffin wax , petrolatum , and starch Principal Display Panel NDC 12258 - 242 - 01 Tetterine ® OINTMENT Antifungal Cures : Athlete ' s Foot , Jock Itch and Ringworm Net wt .
1 oz .
( 28 . 4 g . ) Other Packaging Content S . S . S . Company Atlanta , GA 30315 MADE IN U . S . A . Manufactured by S . S . S . Company Atlanta , GA See our online catalog at www . ssspharmaceuticals . com Rev . B [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
