DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient : Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose : Antifungal Uses treats most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm .
Relieves itching , scaling , cracking , burning , redness , soreness , irritation , discomfort , and chafing associated with jock itch .
Relieves itchy , scaly skin between the toes or itching , burning feet associated with athlete ' s foot .
Ask your health professional regarding additional uses Warnings Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor For external use only When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes Stop using and ask a doctor if • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks .
• for jock itch if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement with - in 2 weeks KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
Supervise children in the use of this product .
For athlete ' s foot pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
For athlete ' s foot and ringworm use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other Information store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) To report a serious adverse event or for product information contact ( 404 ) 521 - 0857 .
Other Ingredients FD & C blue # 1 , fragrance , paraffin wax , petrolatum , and starch Principal Display Panel NDC 12258 - 241 - 01 Tetterine ® Ointment Antifungal Cures : Athlete ' s Foot , Jock Itch and Ringworm Net wt .
1 oz .
( 28 . 4 g . ) Other Packaging Content Manufactured by S . S . S . Company Atlanta , GA 1 - 800 - 237 - 3843 www . ssspharmaceuticals . com Rev . B RETAIN THIS CARTON FOR FUTURE REFERENCE !
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
