Disclaimer : Most OTC drugs are not reviewed and approved by FDA , however they may be marketed if they comply with applicable regulations and policies .
FDA has not evaluated whether this product complies .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following ingredients in the preparation of the product : Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
Hydrogen Peroxide Glycerin Isopropyl Myristate 0 % to < 0 . 25 % Propylene Glycol Carbomer and / or acrylates / alkyl polymers Aloe Arborescens Leaf Tocopheryl Acetate Fragrance Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Hydrogen Peroxide , Glycerin , Carbomer and / or Crosspolymers , Isopropyl Myristate 0 % to < 0 . 25 % , Propylene Glycol , Aloe Arborescens Leaf and / or Tocopheryl Acetate , Fragrance .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 208 L NDC : 74988 - 735 - 55 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
