WARNING : CYTOPENIAS , INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS , AND INFECTIONS WARNING : CYTOPENIAS , INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS , AND INFECTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Serious , including fatal , cytopenias , infusion - related reactions , and infections can occur ( 5 . 1 – 5 . 3 ) .
• Limit doses to 30 mg ( single ) and 90 mg ( cumulative weekly ) ; higher doses increase risk of pancytopenia .
( 2 . 1 ) • Escalate dose gradually and monitor patients during infusion .
Withhold therapy for Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related reactions .
( 5 . 2 ) • Administer prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia ( PCP ) and herpes virus infections .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) Cytopenias : Serious , including fatal , pancytopenia / marrow hypoplasia , autoimmune idiopathic thrombocytopenia , and autoimmune hemolytic anemia can occur in patients receiving CAMPATH .
Single doses of CAMPATH greater than 30 mg or cumulative doses greater than 90 mg per week increase the incidence of pancytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infusion - Related Reactions : CAMPATH administration can result in serious , including fatal , infusion - related reactions .
Carefully monitor patients during infusions and withhold CAMPATH for Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related reactions .
Gradually escalate CAMPATH to the recommended dose at the initiation of therapy and after interruption of therapy for 7 or more days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Immunosuppression / Infections : Serious , including fatal , bacterial , viral , fungal , and protozoan infections can occur in patients receiving CAMPATH .
Administer prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia ( PCP ) and herpes virus infections [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAMPATH is indicated as a single agent for the treatment of B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( B - CLL ) .
CAMPATH is a CD52 - directed cytolytic antibody indicated as a single agent for the treatment of B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( B - CLL ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer as an intravenous infusion over 2 hours .
( 2 . 1 ) • Escalate to recommended dose of 30 mg / day three times per week for 12 weeks .
( 2 . 1 ) • Premedicate with oral antihistamine and acetaminophen .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Schedule and Administration • Administer as an intravenous infusion over 2 hours .
Do not administer as intravenous push or bolus .
• Recommended Dosing Regimen • Gradually escalate to the maximum recommended single dose of 30 mg .
Escalation is required at initiation of dosing or if dosing is held ≥ 7 days during treatment .
Escalation to 30 mg ordinarily can be accomplished in 3 to 7 days .
• Escalation Strategy : • – Administer 3 mg daily until infusion - related reactions are ≤ Grade 2 [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• – Then administer 10 mg daily until infusion - related reactions are ≤ Grade 2 .
• – Then administer 30 mg / day three times per week on alternate days ( e . g . , Mon - Wed - Fri ) .
The total duration of therapy , including dose escalation , is 12 weeks .
• Single doses of greater than 30 mg or cumulative doses greater than 90 mg per week increase the incidence of pancytopenia .
2 . 2 Recommended Concomitant Medications • Premedicate with diphenhydramine ( 50 mg ) and acetaminophen ( 500 – 1000 mg ) 30 minutes prior to first infusion and each dose escalation .
Institute appropriate medical management ( e . g . , glucocorticoids , epinephrine , meperidine ) for infusion - related reactions as needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Administer trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole double strength ( DS ) twice daily 3 times per week ( or equivalent ) as Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia ( PCP ) prophylaxis .
• Administer famciclovir 250 mg BID or equivalent as herpetic prophylaxis .
Continue PCP and herpes viral prophylaxis for a minimum of 2 months after completion of CAMPATH or until the CD4 + count is ≥ 200 cells / µL , whichever occurs later [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Modification • Withhold CAMPATH during serious infection or other serious adverse reactions until resolution .
• Discontinue CAMPATH for autoimmune anemia or autoimmune thrombocytopenia .
• There are no dose modifications recommended for lymphopenia .
Dose Modification for Neutropenia or Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hematologic Values Dosage Modification [ 1 ] ANC < 250 / μL and / or platelet count ≤ 25 , 000 / μL For first occurrence : Withhold CAMPATH therapy .
Resume CAMPATH at 30 mg when ANC ≥ 500 / μL and platelet count ≥ 50 , 000 / μL .
For second occurrence : Withhold CAMPATH therapy .
Resume CAMPATH at 10 mg when ANC ≥ 500 / μL and platelet count ≥ 50 , 000 / μL .
For third occurrence : Discontinue CAMPATH therapy .
≥ 50 % decrease from baseline in patients initiating therapy with a baseline ANC ≤ 250 / μL and / or a baseline platelet count ≤ 25 , 000 / μL For first occurrence : Withhold CAMPATH therapy .
Resume CAMPATH at 30 mg upon return to baseline value ( s ) .
For second occurrence : Withhold CAMPATH therapy .
Resume CAMPATH at 10 mg upon return to baseline value ( s ) .
For third occurrence : Discontinue CAMPATH therapy .
[ 1 ] If the delay between dosing is ≥ 7 days , initiate therapy at CAMPATH 3 mg and escalate to 10 mg and then to 30 mg as tolerated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If particulate matter is present or the solution is discolored , discard the vial .
DO NOT SHAKE VIAL .
Use aseptic technique during the preparation and administration of CAMPATH .
Withdraw the necessary amount of CAMPATH from the vial into a syringe .
• To prepare the 3 mg dose , withdraw 0 . 1 mL into a 1 mL syringe calibrated in increments of 0 . 01 mL .
• To prepare the 10 mg dose , withdraw 0 . 33 mL into a 1 mL syringe calibrated in increments of 0 . 01 mL .
• To prepare the 30 mg dose , withdraw 1 mL in either a 1 mL or 3 mL syringe calibrated in 0 . 1 mL increments .
Inject syringe contents into 100 mL sterile 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride USP or 5 % Dextrose in Water USP .
Gently invert the bag to mix the solution .
Discard syringe .
The vial contains no preservatives and is intended for single use only .
DISCARD VIAL including any unused portion after withdrawal of dose .
Use within 8 hours after dilution .
Store diluted CAMPATH at room temperature between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) or refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
2 . 5 Incompatibilities CAMPATH is compatible with polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) bags and PVC or polyethylene - lined PVC administration sets .
Do not add or simultaneously infuse other drug substances through the same intravenous line .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 30 mg / 1 mL as a clear , colorless solution in single - dose vial Injection : 30 mg / 1 mL single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cytopenias : Obtain complete blood counts ( CBC ) and platelet counts at weekly intervals during therapy and CD4 counts after therapy until recovery to ≥ 200 cells / µL .
Withhold for severe cytopenias .
Discontinue for autoimmune or severe hematologic adverse reactions .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Immunosuppression / Infections : CAMPATH induces severe and prolonged lymphopenia and increases risk of infection .
If a serious infection occurs , withhold treatment until infection resolves .
( 5 . 3 ) • Immunization : Do not administer live viral vaccines to patients who have recently received CAMPATH .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Cytopenias Severe , including fatal , autoimmune anemia and thrombocytopenia , and prolonged myelosuppression have been reported in patients receiving CAMPATH .
In addition , hemolytic anemia , pure red cell aplasia , bone marrow aplasia , and hypoplasia have been reported after treatment with CAMPATH at the recommended dose .
Single doses of CAMPATH greater than 30 mg or cumulative doses greater than 90 mg per week increase the incidence of pancytopenia .
Withhold CAMPATH for severe cytopenias ( except lymphopenia ) .
Discontinue for autoimmune cytopenias or recurrent / persistent severe cytopenias ( except lymphopenia ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
No data exist on the safety of CAMPATH resumption in patients with autoimmune cytopenias or marrow aplasia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Obtain complete blood counts ( CBC ) at weekly intervals during CAMPATH therapy and more frequently if worsening anemia , neutropenia , or thrombocytopenia occurs .
Assess CD4 + counts after treatment until recovery to ≥ 200 cells / µL [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 2 Infusion - Related Reactions Adverse reactions occurring during or shortly after CAMPATH infusion include pyrexia , chills / rigors , nausea , hypotension , urticaria , dyspnea , rash , emesis , and bronchospasm [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In clinical trials , the frequency of infusion - related reactions was highest in the first week of treatment .
Monitor for the signs and symptoms listed above and withhold infusion for Grade 3 or 4 infusion - related reactions .
The following serious , including fatal , infusion - related reactions have been identified in postmarketing reports : syncope , pulmonary infiltrates , acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) , respiratory arrest , cardiac arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , acute cardiac insufficiency , cardiac arrest , angioedema , and anaphylactoid shock .
Initiate CAMPATH according to the recommended dose - escalation scheme [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Premedicate patients with an antihistamine and acetaminophen prior to each dose .
Institute appropriate medical management ( e . g . , glucocorticoids , epinephrine , meperidine ) for infusion - related reactions as needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
If therapy is interrupted for 7 or more days , reinstitute CAMPATH with gradual dose escalation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Immunosuppression / Infections CAMPATH treatment results in severe and prolonged lymphopenia with a concomitant increased incidence of opportunistic infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Administer PCP and herpes viral prophylaxis during treatment with CAMPATH and for a minimum of 2 months after completion of CAMPATH or until the CD4 + count is ≥ 200 cells / µL , whichever occurs later [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Prophylaxis does not eliminate these infections .
Routinely monitor patients for CMV infection during treatment with CAMPATH and for at least 2 months following completion of CAMPATH .
Withhold CAMPATH for serious infections and during antiviral treatment for CMV infection or confirmed CMV viremia ( defined as polymerase chain reaction [ PCR ] positive CMV in ≥ 2 consecutive samples obtained 1 week apart ) .
Initiate therapeutic ganciclovir ( or equivalent ) for CMV infection or confirmed CMV viremia .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) infection , including severe and fatal EBV - associated hepatitis , has been reported in patients who received CAMPATH .
Monitor for sign and symptoms of EBV infections .
Withhold CAMPATH for EBV reactivation or severe infection .
Administer only irradiated blood products to avoid transfusion associated Graft versus Host Disease ( TAGVHD ) , unless emergent circumstances dictate immediate transfusion .
In patients who received CAMPATH as initial therapy , recovery of CD4 + counts to ≥ 200 cells / µL occurred by 6 months following completion of CAMPATH ; however , at 2 months post treatment , the median was 183 cells / µL .
In previously treated patients who received CAMPATH , the median time to recovery of CD4 + counts to ≥ 200 cells / µL was 2 months ; however , full recovery ( to baseline ) of CD4 + and CD8 + counts may take more than 12 months [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 4 Immunization The safety of immunization with live viral vaccines following CAMPATH therapy has not been studied .
Do not administer live viral vaccines to patients or infants born to patients receiving CAMPATH .
The ability to generate an immune response to any vaccine following CAMPATH therapy has not been studied .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Cytopenias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Infusion - Related Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Immunosuppression / Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) : cytopenias , infusion - related reactions , cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) and other infections , nausea , emesis , diarrhea , and insomnia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Genzyme Corporation at 1 - 877 - 4 - CAMPATH ( 1 - 877 - 422 - 6728 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data below reflect exposure to CAMPATH in 296 patients with CLL of whom 147 were previously untreated and 149 received at least 2 prior chemotherapy regimens .
The median duration of exposure was 11 . 7 weeks for previously untreated patients and 8 weeks for previously treated patients .
The most common adverse reactions with CAMPATH are : infusion - related reactions ( pyrexia , chills , hypotension , urticaria , nausea , rash , tachycardia , dyspnea ) , cytopenias ( neutropenia , lymphopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia ) , infections ( CMV viremia , CMV infection , other infections ) , gastrointestinal symptoms ( nausea , emesis , abdominal pain ) , and neurological symptoms ( insomnia , anxiety ) .
The most common serious adverse reactions are cytopenias , infusion - related reactions , and immunosuppression / infections .
Lymphopenia Severe lymphopenia and a rapid and sustained decrease in lymphocyte subsets occurred in previously untreated and previously treated patients following administration of CAMPATH .
In previously untreated patients , the median CD4 + was 0 cells / μL at one month after treatment and 238 cells / μL [ 25 % – 75 % interquartile range 115 to 418 cells / μL at 6 months post treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Neutropenia In previously untreated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was 42 % with a median time to onset of 31 days and a median duration of 37 days .
In previously treated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was 64 % with a median duration of 28 days .
Ten percent of previously untreated patients and 17 % of previously treated patients received granulocyte colony stimulating factors .
Anemia In previously untreated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 anemia was 12 % with a median time to onset of 31 days and a median duration of 8 days .
In previously treated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 anemia was 38 % .
Seventeen percent of previously untreated patients and 66 % of previously treated patients received either erythropoiesis stimulating agents , transfusions or both .
Thrombocytopenia In previously untreated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia was 14 % with a median time to onset of 9 days and a median duration of 14 days .
In previously treated patients , the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia was 52 % with a median duration of 21 days .
Autoimmune thrombocytopenia was reported in 2 % of previously treated patients with one fatality .
Infusion - Related Reactions Infusion - related reactions , which included pyrexia , chills , hypotension , urticaria , and dyspnea , were common .
Grade 3 and 4 pyrexia and / or chills occurred in approximately 10 % of previously untreated patients and in approximately 35 % of previously treated patients .
The occurrence of infusion - related reactions was greatest during the initial week of treatment and decreased with subsequent doses of CAMPATH .
All patients were pretreated with antipyretics and antihistamines ; additionally , 43 % of previously untreated patients received glucocorticoid pre - treatment .
Infections In the study of previously untreated patients , patients were tested weekly for CMV using a PCR assay from initiation through completion of therapy , and every 2 weeks for the first 2 months following therapy .
CMV infection occurred in 16 % ( 23 / 147 ) of previously untreated patients ; approximately one - third of these infections were serious or life threatening .
In studies of previously treated patients in which routine CMV surveillance was not required , CMV infection was documented in 6 % ( 9 / 149 ) of patients ; nearly all of these infections were serious or life threatening .
Other infections were reported in approximately 50 % of patients across all studies .
Grade 3 to 5 sepsis ranged from 3 % to 10 % across studies and was higher in previously treated patients .
Grade 3 to 4 febrile neutropenia ranged from 5 % to 10 % across studies and was higher in previously treated patients .
Infection - related fatalities occurred in 2 % of previously untreated patients and 16 % of previously treated patients .
There were 198 episodes of other infection in 109 previously untreated patients ; 16 % were bacterial , 7 % were fungal , 4 % were other viral , and in 73 % the organism was not identified .
Cardiac Cardiac dysrhythmias occurred in approximately 14 % of previously untreated patients .
The majority were tachycardias and were temporally associated with infusion ; dysrhythmias were Grade 3 or 4 in 1 % of patients .
Previously Untreated Patients Table 1 contains selected adverse reactions observed in 294 patients randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive CAMPATH or chlorambucil as first line therapy for B - CLL .
CAMPATH was administered at a dose of 30 mg intravenously three times weekly for up to 12 weeks .
The median duration of therapy was 11 . 7 weeks with a median weekly dose of 82 mg ( 25 % – 75 % interquartile range : 69 – 90 mg ) .
Table 1 : Per Patient Incidence of Selected [ 1 ] Adverse Reactions in Treatment Naive B - CLL Patients CAMPATH ( n = 147 ) Chlorambucil ( n = 147 ) All Grades [ 2 ] % Grades 3 – 4 % All Grades % Grades 3 – 4 % Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Lymphopenia 97 97 9 1 Neutropenia 77 42 51 26 Anemia 76 13 54 18 Thrombocytopenia 71 13 70 14 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Pyrexia 69 10 11 1 Chills 53 3 1 0 Infections and Infestations CMV viremia [ 3 ] 55 4 8 0 CMV infection 16 5 0 0 Other infections 74 21 65 10 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Urticaria 16 2 1 0 Rash 13 1 4 0 Erythema 4 0 1 0 Vascular Disorders Hypotension 16 1 0 0 Hypertension 14 5 2 1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 14 1 8 0 Tremor 3 0 1 0 Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea 14 4 7 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 10 1 4 0 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 10 0 3 0 Anxiety 8 0 1 0 Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia 10 0 1 0 [ 1 ] Adverse reactions occurring at a higher relative frequency in the CAMPATH arm [ 2 ] NCI CTC version 2 . 0 for adverse reactions ; NCI CTCAE version 3 . 0 for laboratory values [ 3 ] CMV viremia ( without evidence of symptoms ) includes both cases of single PCR positive test results and of confirmed CMV viremia ( ≥ 2 occasions in consecutive samples 1 week apart ) .
For the latter , ganciclovir ( or equivalent ) was initiated per protocol .
Previously Treated Patients Additional safety information was obtained from 3 single arm studies of 149 previously treated patients with CLL administered 30 mg CAMPATH intravenously three times weekly for 4 to 12 weeks ( median cumulative dose 673 mg [ range 2 – 1106 mg ] ; median duration of therapy 8 . 0 weeks ) .
Adverse reactions in these studies not listed in Table 1 that occurred at an incidence rate of > 5 % were fatigue , nausea , emesis , musculoskeletal pain , anorexia , dysesthesia , mucositis , and bronchospasm .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies with the incidence of antibodies to other alemtuzumab products may be misleading .
Using an ELISA assay , anti - human antibodies ( HAHA ) were detected in 11 of 133 ( 8 . 3 % ) previously untreated patients .
In addition , two patients were weakly positive for neutralizing activity .
Limited data suggest that the anti - CAMPATH antibodies did not adversely affect tumor response .
Four of 211 ( 1 . 9 % ) previously treated patients were found to have antibodies to CAMPATH following treatment .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience CAMPATH The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of CAMPATH .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Fatal infusion - related reactions .
Cardiovascular Disorders : Congestive heart failure , cardiomyopathy , decreased ejection fraction ( some patients had been previously treated with cardiotoxic agents ) .
Cerebrovascular Disorders : Cervicocephalic arterial dissection , stroke , including hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Acute acalculous cholecystitis .
Immune System Disorders : Goodpasture ' s syndrome , Graves ' disease , aplastic anemia , Guillain Barré syndrome , chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy , serum sickness , fatal transfusion associated graft versus host disease , hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ( HLH ) .
Infections : Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) infection , progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) , reactivation of latent viruses .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Tumor lysis syndrome .
Neoplasms : EBV - associated lymphoproliferative disorder .
Nervous System Disorders : Optic neuropathy .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Glomerular nephropathies .
Other Alemtuzumab Products The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of another alemtuzumab product .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Endocrine Disorders : Hypothyroidism , hyperthyroidism , and thyroiditis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with CAMPATH .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : May cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies , CAMPATH may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Available data from published cohort studies in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a CAMPATH - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Alemtuzumab was embryolethal in pregnant huCD52 transgenic mice when administered during organogenesis ( see Data ) .
Human IgG antibodies are known to cross the placental barrier ; therefore , CAMPATH may be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus .
Advise women of the potential risk to the fetus .
Infants born to pregnant women treated with CAMPATH may be at increased risk of infection ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Monoclonal antibodies are transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses , with the largest amount transferred during the third trimester .
Consider the risks and benefits of administering live or live - attenuated vaccines to infants exposed to CAMPATH in utero [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Data Animal data When alemtuzumab was administered to pregnant huCD52 transgenic mice during organogenesis ( gestation days [ GD ] 6 – 10 or GD 11 – 15 ) at intravenous doses of 3 or 10 mg / kg , no teratogenic effects were observed .
However , there was an increase in embryolethality ( increased postimplantation loss and the number of dams with all fetuses dead or resorbed ) in pregnant animals dosed during GD 11 – 15 .
In a separate study in pregnant huCD52 transgenic mice , administration of alemtuzumab during organogenesis ( GD 6 – 10 or GD 11 – 15 ) at intravenous doses of 3 or 10 mg / kg , decreases in B - lymphocyte and T - lymphocyte populations were observed in the offspring at both doses tested .
In pregnant huCD52 transgenic mice administered alemtuzumab at intravenous doses of 3 or 10 mg / kg / day throughout gestation and lactation , there was an increase in pup deaths during the lactation period at 10 mg / kg .
Decreases in T - lymphocyte and B - lymphocyte populations and in antibody response were observed in offspring at both doses tested .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of alemtuzumab in human milk , effects on milk production , or the breastfed child .
The effects of local gastrointestinal exposure and limited systemic exposure in the breastfed infant to alemtuzumab are unknown .
Alemtuzumab was detected in the milk of lactating huCD52 transgenic mice administered alemtuzumab ( see Data ) .
Maternal IgG is known to be present in human milk and when a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from CAMPATH in a breastfed child , including reduced lymphocyte counts , advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment with CAMPATH and for at least 3 months following the last dose .
Data Alemtuzumab was detected in the milk of lactating huCD52 transgenic mice following intravenous administration of alemtuzumab at a dose of 10 mg / kg on postpartum days 8 – 12 .
Serum levels of alemtuzumab were similar in lactating mice and offspring on postpartum day 13 and were associated with evidence of pharmacological activity ( decrease in lymphocyte counts ) in the offspring .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential CAMPATH may cause embryo - fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating CAMPATH therapy .
Contraception Females Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with CAMPATH and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
Infertility Based on findings from animal studies , alemtuzumab may impair fertility in females and males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
The reversibility of the effect on fertility is unknown .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 147 previously untreated B - CLL patients treated with CAMPATH , 35 % were ≥ age 65 and 4 % were ≥ age 75 .
Of 149 previously treated patients with B - CLL , 44 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 10 % were ≥ 75 years of age .
Clinical studies of CAMPATH did not include sufficient number of subjects age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Across all clinical experience , the reported maximum single dose received was 90 mg .
Bone marrow aplasia , infections , or severe infusion - related reactions occurred in patients who received a dose higher than recommended .
One patient who received an 80 mg dose intravenously experienced acute bronchospasm , cough , and dyspnea , followed by anuria and death .
Another patient received two 90 mg doses intravenously one day apart during the second week of treatment and experienced a rapid onset of bone marrow aplasia .
There is no known specific antidote for CAMPATH overdosage .
Discontinue CAMPATH and provide supportive therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION Alemtuzumab , a CD52 - directed cytolytic antibody , is a recombinant DNA - derived humanized monoclonal antibody ( CAMPATH - 1 H ) .
CAMPATH - 1 H is an IgG1 kappa antibody with human variable framework and constant regions , and complementarity - determining regions from a murine ( rat ) monoclonal antibody ( CAMPATH - 1 G ) .
The CAMPATH - 1 H antibody has an approximate molecular weight of 150 kD .
CAMPATH is produced in mammalian cell ( Chinese hamster ovary ) suspension culture in a medium containing neomycin .
Neomycin is not detectable in the final product .
CAMPATH ( alemtuzumab ) injection is a sterile , clear , colorless , isotonic solution ( pH 6 . 8 – 7 . 4 ) in a single - dose vial for intravenous use .
Each single - dose vial of CAMPATH contains 30 mg alemtuzumab , 8 . 0 mg sodium chloride , 1 . 44 mg dibasic sodium phosphate , 0 . 2 mg potassium chloride , 0 . 2 mg monobasic potassium phosphate , 0 . 1 mg polysorbate 80 , and 0 . 0187 mg disodium edetate dihydrate .
No preservatives are added .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action CAMPATH binds to CD52 , an antigen present on the surface of B and T lymphocytes , a majority of monocytes , macrophages , NK cells , and a subpopulation of granulocytes .
A proportion of bone marrow cells , including some CD34 + cells , express variable levels of CD52 .
The proposed mechanism of action is antibody - dependent cellular - mediated lysis following cell surface binding of CAMPATH to the leukemic cells .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of multiple doses of alemtuzumab ( 12 mg / day for 5 days ) on the QTc interval was evaluated in a single - arm study in 53 patients without malignancy .
No large changes in the mean QTc interval ( i . e . , > 20 ms ) were detected in the study .
A mean increase in heart rate of 22 to 26 beats / min was observed for at least 2 hours following the initial infusion of alemtuzumab .
This increase in heart rate was not observed with subsequent doses .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics CAMPATH pharmacokinetics were characterized in a study of 30 previously treated B - CLL patients in whom CAMPATH was administered at the recommended dose and schedule .
After 12 weeks of dosing , patients exhibited a 7 - fold increase in mean AUC .
Distribution After the last 30 mg dose , the mean volume of distribution at steady - state was 0 . 18 L / kg ( range 0 . 1 to 0 . 4 L / kg ) .
Elimination CAMPATH pharmacokinetics displayed nonlinear elimination kinetics .
Systemic clearance decreased with repeated administration due to decreased receptor - mediated clearance ( i . e . , loss of CD52 receptors in the periphery ) .
Mean half - life was 11 hours ( range 2 to 32 hours ) after the first 30 mg dose and was 6 days ( range 1 to 14 days ) after the last 30 mg dose .
Specific Populations The effects of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of CAMPATH have not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess the carcinogenic or genotoxic potential of CAMPATH have not been conducted .
In fertility studies , alemtuzumab ( 3 or 10 mg / kg intravenously ) was administered to huCD52 transgenic male mice on 5 consecutive days prior to cohabitation with untreated wild - type females .
No effect on fertility or reproductive performance was observed .
However , adverse effects on sperm parameters ( including abnormal morphology [ detached / no head ] and reduced total count and motility ) were observed at both doses tested .
When alemtuzumab ( 3 or 10 mg / kg intravenously ) was administered to huCD52 transgenic female mice for 5 consecutive days prior to cohabitation with untreated wild - type males , there was a decrease in the average number of corpora lutea and implantation sites and an increase in postimplantation loss , resulting in fewer viable embryos at the higher dose tested .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Previously Untreated B - CLL Patients CAMPATH was evaluated in an open - label , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) active - controlled study in previously untreated patients with B - CLL , Rai Stage I – IV , with evidence of progressive disease requiring therapy .
Patients received either CAMPATH 30 mg intravenously 3 times per week for a maximum of 12 weeks or chlorambucil 40 mg / m2 orally once every 28 days for a maximum of 12 cycles .
Of the 297 patients randomized , the median age was 60 years , 72 % were male , 99 % were Caucasian , 96 % had a WHO performance status 0 – 1 , 23 % had maximum lymph node diameter ≥ 5 cm , 34 % were Rai Stage III / IV , and 8 % were treated in the U . S . Patients randomized to receive CAMPATH experienced longer progression free survival ( PFS ) compared to those randomized to receive chlorambucil ( median PFS 14 . 6 months vs . 11 . 7 months , respectively ) .
The overall response rates were 83 % and 55 % ( p < 0 . 0001 ) and the complete response rates were 24 % and 2 % ( p < 0 . 0001 ) for CAMPATH and chlorambucil arms , respectively .
The Kaplan - Meier curve for PFS is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Progression Free Survival in Previously Untreated B - CLL Patients [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Log - rank test adjusted for Rai Stage ( I – II vs . III – IV ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Previously Treated B - CLL Patients CAMPATH was evaluated in three multicenter , open - label , single - arm studies of 149 patients with B - CLL previously treated with alkylating agents , fludarabine , or other chemotherapies .
Patients were treated with the recommended dose of CAMPATH 30 mg intravenously 3 times per week for up to 12 weeks .
Partial response rates of 21 % to 31 % and complete response rates of 0 % to 2 % were observed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CAMPATH ( alemtuzumab ) is supplied in clear glass single - dose vial containing 30 mg of alemtuzumab in 1 mL of solution .
Each carton contains three CAMPATH vials ( NDC 58468 - 0357 - 3 ) or one CAMPATH vial ( NDC 58468 - 0357 - 1 ) .
Store CAMPATH at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
If accidentally frozen , thaw at 2 ° C to 8 ° C before administration .
Protect from direct sunlight .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Cytopenias Advise patients to report any signs or symptoms such as bleeding , easy bruising , petechiae or purpura , pallor , weakness or fatigue [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Infusion - Related Reactions Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of infusion - related reactions and of the need to take premedications as prescribed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Immunosuppression / Infections Advise patients to immediately report symptoms of infection ( e . g . , pyrexia ) and to take prophylactic anti - infectives for PCP ( trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole DS or equivalent ) and for herpes virus ( famciclovir or equivalent ) as prescribed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients that irradiation of blood products is required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Immunization Advise patients that they should not be immunized with live viral vaccines if they have recently been treated with CAMPATH .
Advise females with infants exposed to CAMPATH in utero to inform the pediatrician of the exposure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with CAMPATH and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with CAMPATH and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise females and males of reproductive potential that CAMPATH may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Glomerular Nephropathies Advise patients on signs and symptoms of glomerular nephropathies that may occur months to years after receiving CAMPATH [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured and distributed by : Genzyme Corporation , Cambridge , MA 02141 A SANOFI COMPANY US License Number : 1596 CAMPATH is a registered trademark of Genzyme Corporation .
© 2022 Genzyme Corporation .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Vial Carton NDC 58468 - 0357 - 1 Rx only Campath ® alemtuzumab Injection 30 mg / mL For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Vial Carton NDC 58468 - 0357 - 3 Rx only Campath ® alemtuzumab Injection 30 mg / mL For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
