I n d ic a t io ns a nd Us a g e , P a r t i al O ns et S ei z u r es ( 1 .
1 ) [ 1 2 / 20 11 ] D os a ge a nd A d m i n is t r a t io n , P a r t i al O ns et S e i z u r es ( 2 .
1 , 2 .
2 , 2 .
5 ) [ 1 2 / 2 0 1 1 ] W a r n in gs a nd Pr e c a u t i o ns ( 5 .
1 , 5 .
3 , 5 .
4 , 5 .
5 , 5 .
7 , 5 .
8 , 5 .
9 ) [ 1 2 / 20 1 1 ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is an antiepileptic drug indicated for adjunctive therapy in the treatment of : • Partial onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older with epilepsy ( 1 . 1 ) • Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1 . 2 ) • Primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Partial Onset Seizures Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures in adults and children 4 years of age and older with epilepsy .
Information describing the use of levetiracetam in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
1 . 2 Myoclonic Seizures In Patients With Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy .
1 . 3 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in adults and children 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2 . 1 ) .
• For pediatric patients , use weight - based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device ( not a household teaspoon or tablespoon ) ( 2 . 1 ) Partial Onset Seizures • 4 Years To < 16 Years : 10 mg / kg twice daily , increase in increments of 10 mg / kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 . 2 ) • Adults 16 Years And Older : 500 mg twice daily , increase as needed and tolerated in increments of 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a maximum recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2 . 2 ) Myoclonic Seizures In Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years And Older • 500 mg twice daily , increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2 . 3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures • 6 Years To < 16 Years : 10 mg / kg twice daily , increase in increments of 10 mg / kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg / kg twice daily ( 2 . 4 ) • Adults 16 Years And Older : 500 mg twice daily , increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2 . 4 ) Adult patients with impaired renal function • Dose adjustment is recommended , based on the patient ' s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is given orally with or without food .
The levetiracetam dosing regimen depends on the indication , age group , dosage form , and renal function .
Prescribe the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg .
Prescribe the oral solution or tablets for pediatric patients with body weight above 20 kg .
When using the oral solution in pediatric patients , dosing is weight - based ( mg per kg ) using a calibrated measuring device ( not a household teaspoon or tablespoon ) .
2 . 2 Partial Onset Seizures Adults 16 Years And Older In clinical trials , daily doses of 1000 mg , 2000 mg , and 3000 mg , given as twice - daily dosing were shown to be effective .
Although in some studies there was a tendency toward greater response with higher dose [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , a consistent increase in response with increased dose has not been shown .
Treatment should be initiated with a daily dose of 1000 mg / day , given as twice - daily dosing ( 500 mg twice daily ) .
Additional dosing increments may be given ( 1000 mg / day additional every 2 weeks ) to a maximum recommended daily dose of 3000 mg .
Doses greater than 3000 mg / day have been used in open - label studies for periods of 6 months and longer .
There is no evidence that doses greater than 3000 mg / day confer additional benefit .
Pediatric Patients Dosing information in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
4 Years To < 16 Years Treatment should be initiated with a daily dose of 20 mg / kg in 2 divided doses ( 10 mg / kg twice daily ) .
The daily dose should be increased every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg / kg to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg / kg ( 30 mg / kg twice daily ) .
If a patient cannot tolerate a daily dose of 60 mg / kg , the daily dose may be reduced .
In the clinical efficacy trial , the mean daily dose was 44 mg / kg .
The maximum daily dose was 3000 mg / day .
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP Weight - Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients : Total daily dose ( mL / day ) = Daily dose ( mg / kg / day ) × patient weight ( kg ) 100 mg / mL 2 . 3 Myoclonic Seizures In Patients 12 Years Of Age And Older With Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 1000 mg / day , given as twice - daily dosing ( 500 mg twice daily ) .
Dosage should be increased by 1000 mg / day every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 3000 mg .
The effectiveness of doses lower than 3000 mg / day has not been studied .
2 . 4 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures Adults 16 Years And Older Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 1000 mg / day , given as twice - daily dosing ( 500 mg twice daily ) .
Dosage should be increased by 1000 mg / day every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 3000 mg .
The effectiveness of doses lower than 3000 mg / day has not been adequately studied .
Pediatric Patients Ages 6 To < 16 Years Treatment should be initiated with a daily dose of 20 mg / kg in 2 divided doses ( 10 mg / kg twice daily ) .
The daily dose should be increased every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg / kg to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg / kg ( 30 mg / kg twice daily ) .
The effectiveness of doses lower than 60 mg / kg / day has not been adequately studied .
Patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg should be dosed with oral solution .
Patients with body weight above 20 kg can be dosed with either tablets or oral solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 5 Adult Patients With Impaired Renal Function Levetiracetam dosing must be individualized according to the patient ' s renal function status .
Recommended doses and adjustment for dose for adults are shown in Table 1 .
In order to calculate the dose recommended for patients with renal impairment , creatinine clearance adjusted for body surface area must be calculated .
To do this an estimate of the patient ' s creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) in mL / min must first be calculated using the following formula : CLcr = [ 140 - age ( years ) ] × weight ( kg ) ( × 0 . 85 for female patients ) 72 × serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area ( BSA ) as follows : CLcr ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 = CLcr ( mL / min ) × 1 . 73 BSA subject ( m2 ) Table 1 : Dosing Adjustment Regimen For Adult Patients With Impaired Renal Function Group Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) Dosage ( mg ) Frequency * Following dialysis , a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended .
Normal > 80 500 to 1 , 500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 – 80 500 to 1 , 000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 – 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis ---- 500 to 1 , 000 * Every 24 hours * 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , 100 mg / mL is a clear , colorless , grape - flavored liquid .
• 100 mg / mL solution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Psychiatric Symptoms : Behavioral abnormalities including psychotic symptoms , suicidal ideation , irritability , and aggressive behavior have been observed .
Monitor patients for psychiatric signs and symptoms ( 5 . 1 ) • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation : Monitor patients for new or worsening depression , suicidal thoughts / behavior , and / or unusual changes in mood or behavior ( 5 . 2 ) • Somnolence and Fatigue : Monitor patients for these symptoms and advise patients not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on levetiracetam ( 5 . 3 ) • Withdrawal Seizures : Levetiracetam must be gradually withdrawn ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Psychiatric Reactions In some patients levetiracetam causes behavioral abnormalities .
The incidences of behavioral abnormalities in the myoclonic and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure studies were comparable to those of the adult and pediatric partial onset seizure studies .
A total of 13 . 3 % of adult levetiracetam - treated patients and 37 . 6 % of pediatric levetiracetam - treated patients ( 4 to 16 years of age ) compared to 6 . 2 % and 18 . 6 % of adult and pediatric placebo patients respectively , experienced non - psychotic behavioral symptoms ( reported as aggression , agitation , anger , anxiety , apathy , depersonalization , depression , emotional lability , hostility , hyperkinesias , irritability , nervousness , neurosis , and personality disorder ) .
A randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled study was performed to assess the neurocognitive and behavioral effects of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy in pediatric patients ( 4 to 16 years of age ) .
The results from an exploratory analysis indicated a worsening in levetiracetam - treated patients on aggressive behavior ( one of eight behavior dimensions ) as measured in a standardized and systematic way using a validated instrument , the Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist ( CBCL / 6 - 18 ) .
In pediatric patients 1 month to < 4 years of age , irritability was reported in 11 . 7 % of the levetiracetam - treated patients compared to 0 % of placebo patients .
A total of 1 . 7 % of adult levetiracetam - treated patients discontinued treatment due to behavioral adverse events , compared to 0 . 2 % of placebo patients .
The treatment dose was reduced in 0 . 8 % of adult levetiracetam - treated patients and in 0 . 5 % of placebo patients .
Overall , 10 . 9 % of levetiracetam - treated pediatric patients experienced behavioral symptoms associated with discontinuation or dose reduction , compared to 6 . 2 % of placebo patients .
One percent of adult levetiracetam - treated patients , 2 % of children 4 to 16 years of age , and 17 % of children 1 month to < 4 years of age experienced psychotic symptoms , compared to 0 . 2 % , 2 % , and 5 % respectively , in the placebo patients .
In the controlled study that assessed the neurocognitive and behavioral effects of levetiracetam in pediatric patients 4 to 16 years of age , 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) levetiracetam - treated patient experienced paranoia compared to no placebo patients .
There were 2 ( 3 . 1 % ) levetiracetam - treated patients that experienced confusional state compared to no placebo patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Two ( 0 . 3 % ) adult levetiracetam - treated patients were hospitalized and their treatment was discontinued due to psychosis .
Both events , reported as psychosis , developed within the first week of treatment and resolved within 1 to 2 weeks following treatment discontinuation .
There was no difference between drug and placebo - treated patients in the incidence of the pediatric patients who discontinued treatment due to psychotic and non - psychotic adverse reactions .
The above psychiatric signs symptoms should be monitored .
5 . 2 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , including levetiracetam , increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication .
Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression , suicidal thoughts or behavior , and / or any unusual changes in mood or behavior .
Pooled analyses of 199 placebo - controlled clinical trials ( mono - and adjunctive therapy ) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk ( adjusted Relative Risk 1 . 8 , 95 % CI : 1 . 2 , 2 . 7 ) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo .
In these trials , which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks , the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27 , 863 AED - treated patients was 0 . 43 % , compared to 0 . 24 % among 16 , 029 placebo - treated patients , representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated .
There were four suicides in drug - treated patients in the trials and none in placebo - treated patients , but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed .
Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks , the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed .
The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed .
The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication .
The risk did not vary substantially by age ( 5 to 100 years ) in the clinical trials analyzed .
Table 2 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs .
Table 2 : Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk : Incidence of Events in Drug Patients / Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference : Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1 . 0 3 . 4 3 . 5 2 . 4 Psychiatric 5 . 7 8 . 5 1 . 5 2 . 9 Other 1 . 0 1 . 8 1 . 9 0 . 9 Total 2 . 4 4 . 3 1 . 8 1 . 9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions , but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications .
Anyone considering prescribing levetiracetam or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviors with the risk of untreated illness .
Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior .
Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment , the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated .
Patients , their caregivers , and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression , any unusual changes in mood or behavior , or the emergence of suicidal thoughts , behavior , or thoughts about self - harm .
Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers .
5 . 3 Somnolence and Fatigue In some patients , levetiracetam causes somnolence and fatigue .
The incidences of somnolence and fatigue provided below are from controlled adult partial onset seizure studies .
In general , the incidences of somnolence and fatigue in the pediatric partial onset seizure studies , and in pediatric and adult myoclonic and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure studies were comparable to those of the adult partial onset seizure studies .
In controlled trials of adult patients with epilepsy experiencing partial onset seizures , 14 . 8 % of levetiracetam - treated patients reported somnolence , compared to 8 . 4 % of placebo patients .
There was no clear dose response up to 3000 mg / day .
In a study where there was no titration , about 45 % of patients receiving 4000 mg / day reported somnolence .
The somnolence was considered serious in 0 . 3 % of the treated patients , compared to 0 % in the placebo group .
About 3 % of levetiracetam - treated patients discontinued treatment due to somnolence , compared to 0 . 7 % of placebo patients .
In 1 . 4 % of treated patients and in 0 . 9 % of placebo patients the dose was reduced , while 0 . 3 % of the treated patients were hospitalized due to somnolence .
In controlled trials of adult patients with epilepsy experiencing partial onset seizures , 14 . 7 % of levetiracetam - treated patients reported asthenia , compared to 9 . 1 % of placebo patients .
Treatment was discontinued due to asthenia in 0 . 8 % of treated patients as compared to 0 . 5 % of placebo patients .
In 0 . 5 % of treated patients and in 0 . 2 % of placebo patients the dose was reduced due to asthenia .
Somnolence and asthenia occurred most frequently within the first 4 weeks of treatment .
Patients should be monitored for these signs and symptoms and advised not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on levetiracetam to gauge whether it adversely affects their ability to drive or operate machinery .
5 . 4 Anaphylaxis and Angioedema Le veti racet am can cause anaphylaxis or angioedema after the first dose or at any time during treatment .
Signs and symptoms in cases reported in the postmarketing setting have included hypotension , hives , rash , respiratory distress , and swelling of the face , lip , mouth , eye , tongue , throat , and feet .
In some reported cases , reactions were lifethreatening and required emergency treatment .
If a patient develops signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis or angioedema , le veti racetam should be discontinued and the patient should seek immediate medical attention .
le veti racetam should be discontinued permanently if a clear alternative etiology for the reaction cannot be established [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Serious Dermatological Reactions Serious dermatological reactions , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , have been reported in both children and adults treated with levetiracetam .
The median time of onset is reported to be 14 to 17 days , but cases have been reported at least four months after initiation of treatment .
Recurrence of the serious skin reactions following rechallenge with levetiracetam has also been reported .
Levetiracetam should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash , unless the rash is clearly not drug - related .
If signs or symptoms suggest SJS / TEN , use of this drug should not be resumed and alternative therapy should be considered .
5 . 6 Coordination Difficulties Coordination difficulties were only observed in the adult partial onset seizure studies .
A total of 3 . 4 % of adult levetiracetam - treated patients experienced coordination difficulties , ( reported as either ataxia , abnormal gait , or incoordination ) compared to 1 . 6 % of placebo patients .
A total of 0 . 4 % of patients in controlled trials discontinued levetiracetam treatment due to ataxia , compared to 0 % of placebo patients .
In 0 . 7 % of treated patients and in 0 . 2 % of placebo patients the dose was reduced due to coordination difficulties , while one of the treated patients was hospitalized due to worsening of pre - existing ataxia .
These events occurred most frequently within the first 4 weeks of treatment .
Patients should be monitored for these signs and symptoms and advised not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on levetiracetam to gauge whether it could adversely affect their ability to drive or operate machinery .
5 . 7 Withdrawal Seizures Antiepileptic drugs , including levetiracetam , should be withdrawn gradually to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency .
5 . 8 Hematologic Abnormalities Levetriacetam can cause hematologic abnormalities .
Hematologic abnormalities occurred in clinical trials and included decreases in white blood cell ( WBC ) , neutrophil , and red blood cell ( RBC ) counts ; decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ; and increases in eosinophil counts .
Cases of agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , and thrombocytopenia have been reported in the postmarketing setting .
A complete blood count is recommended in patients experiencing significant weakness , pyrexia , recurrent infections , or coagulation disorders .
Partial Onset Seizures Adults Minor , but statistically significant , decreases compared to placebo in total mean RBC count ( 0 . 03 × 106 / mm3 ) , mean hemoglobin ( 0 . 09 g / dL ) , and mean hematocrit ( 0 . 38 % ) , were seen in levetiracetam - treated patients in controlled trials .
A total of 3 . 2 % of treated and 1 . 8 % of placebo patients had at least one possibly significant ( ≤ 2 . 8 × 109 / L ) decreased WBC , and 2 . 4 % of treated and 1 . 4 % of placebo patients had at least one possibly significant ( ≤ 1 . 0 × 109 / L ) decreased neutrophil count .
Of the treated patients with a low neutrophil count , all but one rose towards or to baseline with continued treatment .
No patient was discontinued secondary to low neutrophil counts .
Pediatric Patients 4 Years To < 16 Years Statistically significant decreases in WBC and neutrophil counts were seen in levetiracetam - treated patients as compared to placebo .
The mean decreases from baseline in the levetiracetam - treated group were - 0 . 4 × 109 / L and 0 . 3 × 109 / L , respectively , whereas there were small increases in the placebo group .
Mean relative lymphocyte counts increased by 1 . 7 % in levetiracetam - treated patients , compared to a decrease of 4 % in placebo patients ( statistically significant ) .
In the controlled trial , more levetiracetam - treated patients had a possibly clinically significant abnormally low WBC value ( 3 . 0 % levetiracetam - treated versus 0 % placebo ) , however , there was no apparent difference between treatment groups with respect to neutrophil count ( 5 . 0 % levetiracetam - treated versus 4 . 2 % placebo ) .
No patient was discontinued secondary to low WBC or neutrophil counts .
In the controlled cognitive and neuropsychological safety study , two subjects ( 6 . 1 % ) in the placebo group and 5 subjects ( 8 . 6 % ) in the levetiracetam - treated group had high eosinophil count values that were possibly clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % or ≥ 0 . 7 × 109 / L ) .
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Although there were no obvious hematologic abnormalities observed in patients with JME , the limited number of patients makes any conclusion tentative .
The data from the partial seizure patients should be considered to be relevant for JME patients .
5 . 9 Blood Pressure Increases In a randomized , placebo - controlled study in patients aged 1 month to < 4 years of age , a significantly higher risk of at least one measured increase in diastolic blood pressure was observed in the levetiracetam - treated patients ( 17 % ) compared to the placebo treated patients ( 2 % ) .
There was no overall difference in mean diastolic blood pressure between the treatment groups .
This disparity between the levetiracetam and placebo treatment groups was not observed in the studies of older children or in adults .
5 . 10 Seizure Control During Pregnancy Physiological changes may gradually decrease plasma levels of levetiracetam throughout pregnancy .
This decrease is more pronounced during the third trimester .
It is recommended that patients be monitored carefully during pregnancy .
Close monitoring should continue through the postpartum period especially if the dose was changed during pregnancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more details in other sections of labeling : • Psychiatric Symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Somnolence and Fatigue [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Serious Dermatological Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Coordination Difficulties [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Withdrawal Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hematologic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Blood Pressure Increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Seizure Control During Pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence in levetiracetam - treated patients is ≥ 5 % more than in placebo - treated patients ) include : • Adult patients : somnolence , asthenia , infection and dizziness ( 6 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients : fatigue , aggression , nasal congestion , decreased appetite , and irritability ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Silarx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 974 - 5279 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The prescriber should be aware that the adverse reaction incidence figures in the following tables , obtained when levetiracetam was added to concurrent AED therapy , cannot be used to predict the frequency of adverse reactions in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors may differ from those prevailing during clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be directly compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments , uses , or investigators .
An inspection of these frequencies , however , does provide the prescriber with one basis to estimate the relative contribution of drug and non - drug factors to the adverse reaction incidences in the population studied .
Partial Onset Seizures Adults In controlled clinical studies in adults with partial onset seizures , the most frequently reported adverse reactions in patients receiving levetiracetam in combination with other AEDs were somnolence , asthenia , infection and dizziness .
Of the most frequently reported adverse reactions in adults experiencing partial onset seizures , asthenia , somnolence and dizziness appeared to occur predominantly during the first 4 weeks of treatment with levetiracetam .
Table 3 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of adult epilepsy patients treated with levetiracetam participating in placebo - controlled studies and were numerically more common than in patients treated with placebo .
In these studies , either levetiracetam or placebo was added to concurrent AED therapy .
Adverse reactions were usually mild to moderate in intensity .
Table 3 : Incidence ( % ) Of Adverse Reactions In Placebo - Controlled , Add - On Studies In Adults Experiencing Partial Onset Seizures By Body System ( Adverse Reactions Occurred In At Least 1 % Of Levetiracetam - Treated Patients And Occurred More Frequently Than Placebo - Treated Patients ) Body System / Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 769 ) % Placebo ( N = 439 ) % Body as a Whole Asthenia 15 9 Headache 14 13 Infection 13 8 Pain 7 6 Digestive System Anorexia 3 2 Nervous System Somnolence 15 8 Dizziness 9 4 Depression 4 2 Nervousness 4 2 Ataxia 3 1 Vertigo 3 1 Amnesia 2 1 Anxiety 2 1 Hostility 2 1 Paresthesia 2 1 Emotional Lability 2 0 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 6 4 Rhinitis 4 3 Cough Increased 2 1 Sinusitis 2 1 Special Senses Diplopia 2 1 In controlled adult clinical studies , 15 % of patients receiving levetiracetam and 12 % receiving placebo either discontinued or had a dose reduction as a result of an adverse event .
Table 4 lists the most common ( > 1 % ) adverse reactions that resulted in discontinuation or dose reduction and that occurred more frequently in levetiracetam - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions That Most Commonly Resulted In Discontinuation Or Dose Reduction That Occurred More Frequently In Levetiracetam - Treated Patients In Placebo - Controlled Studies In Adult Patients Experiencing Partial Onset Seizures Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 769 ) % Placebo ( N = 439 ) % Dizziness 1 0 Somnolence 4 2 Pediatric Patients 4 Years To < 16 Years The adverse reaction data presented below was obtained from a pooled analysis of two controlled pediatric clinical studies in children 4 to 16 years of age with partial onset seizures .
The adverse reactions most frequently reported with the use of levetiracetam in combination with other AEDs , not seen at an equivalent frequency among placebo - treated patients , were fatigue , aggression , nasal congestion , decreased appetite , and irritability .
Table 5 lists adverse reactions from the pooled pediatric controlled studies ( 4 to 16 years of age ) that occurred in at least 2 % of pediatric levetiracetam - treated patients and were numerically more common than in pediatric patients treated with placebo .
In these studies , either levetiracetam or placebo was added to concurrent AED therapy .
Adverse reactions were usually mild to moderate in intensity .
Table 5 : Incidence ( % ) Of Adverse Reactions In Pooled Placebo - Controlled , Add - On Studies In Pediatric Patients Ages 4 to 16 Years Experiencing Partial Onset Seizures By Body System ( Adverse Reactions Occurred In At Least 2 % Of Levetiracetam - Treated Patients And Occurred More Frequently Than Placebo - Treated Patients ) Body System / Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 165 ) % Placebo ( N = 131 ) % Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Ear Pain 2 1 Eye Disorders Conjunctivitis 2 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting 15 12 Abdominal Pain Upper 9 8 Diarrhea 6 5 Constipation 3 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 11 5 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 15 12 Influenza 3 1 Gastroenteritis 2 0 Rhinitis 2 0 Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications Head Injury 4 0 Contusion 3 1 Fall 3 2 Joint Sprain 2 1 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased Appetite 8 2 Anorexia 4 3 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 2 0 Neck Pain 2 1 Nervous System Headache 19 15 Somnolence 13 9 Dizziness 7 5 Lethargy 6 2 Sedation 2 1 Psychiatric Disorders Aggression 10 5 Abnormal Behavior 7 4 Irritability 7 1 Insomnia 5 3 Agitation 4 1 Depression 3 1 Mood Altered 3 1 Affect Lability 2 1 Anxiety 2 1 Confusional State 2 0 Mood Swings 2 1 Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 9 5 Nasal Congestion 9 2 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 7 4 In the well - controlled pooled pediatric clinical studies in patients 4 to 16 years of age , 7 % of patients receiving levetiracetam and 9 % receiving placebo discontinued as a result of an adverse event .
Adverse reaction information in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Myoclonic Seizures Although the pattern of adverse reactions in this study seems somewhat different from that seen in patients with partial seizures , this is likely due to the much smaller number of patients in this study compared to partial seizure studies .
The adverse reaction pattern for patients with JME is expected to be essentially the same as for patients with partial seizures .
In the well - controlled clinical study that included both adolescent ( 12 to 16 years of age ) and adult patients with myoclonic seizures , the most frequently reported adverse reactions in patients using levetiracetam in combination with other AEDs , not seen at an equivalent frequency among placebo - treated patients , were somnolence , neck pain , and pharyngitis .
Table 7 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5 % of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy patients experiencing myoclonic seizures treated with levetiracetam and were numerically more common than in patients treated with placebo .
In this study , either levetiracetam or placebo was added to concurrent AED therapy .
Adverse reactions were usually mild to moderate in intensity .
Table 7 : Incidence ( % ) Of Adverse Reactions In A Placebo - Controlled , Add - On Study In Patients 12 Years Of Age And Older With Myoclonic Seizures By Body System ( Adverse Reactions Occurred In At Least 5 % Of Levetiracetam - Treated Patients And Occurred More Frequently Than Placebo - Treated Patients ) Body System / Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 60 ) % Placebo ( N = 60 ) % Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo 5 3 Infections and infestations Pharyngitis 7 0 Influenza 5 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Neck pain 8 2 Nervous system disorders Somnolence 12 2 Psychiatric disorders Depression 5 2 In the placebo - controlled study , 8 % of patients receiving levetiracetam and 2 % receiving placebo either discontinued or had a dose reduction as a result of an adverse reaction .
The adverse reactions that led to discontinuation or dose reduction in the well - controlled study and occurred more frequently in levetiracetam - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients are presented in Table 8 .
Table 8 : Adverse Reactions That Resulted In Discontinuation Or Dose Reduction That Occurred More Frequently in Levetiracetam - Treated Patients In The Placebo - Controlled Study In Patients With Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 60 ) % Placebo ( N = 60 ) % Anxiety 3 2 Depressed Mood 2 0 Depression 2 0 Diplopia 2 0 Hypersomnia 2 0 Insomnia 2 0 Irritability 2 0 Nervousness 2 0 Somnolence 2 0 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures Although the pattern of adverse reactions in this study seems somewhat different from that seen in patients with partial seizures , this is likely due to the much smaller number of patients in this study compared to partial seizure studies .
The adverse reaction pattern for patients with PGTC seizures is expected to be essentially the same as for patients with partial seizures .
In the well - controlled clinical study that included patients 4 years of age and older with primary generalized tonic - clonic ( PGTC ) seizures , the most frequently reported adverse reaction in patients using levetiracetam in combination with other AEDs , not seen at an equivalent frequency among placebo - treated patients , was nasopharyngitis .
Table 9 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5 % of idiopathic generalized epilepsy patients experiencing PGTC seizures treated with levetiracetam and were numerically more common than in patients treated with placebo .
In this study , either levetiracetam or placebo was added to concurrent AED therapy .
Adverse reactions were usually mild to moderate in intensity .
Table 9 : Incidence ( % ) Of Adverse Reactions In A Placebo - Controlled , Add - On Study In Patients 4 Years Of Age And Older With PGTC Seizures By MedDRA System Organ Class ( Adverse Reactions Occurred In At Least 5 % Of Levetiracetam - Treated Patients And Occurred More Frequently Than Placebo - Treated Patients ) Body System / Adverse Reaction Levetiracetam ( N = 79 ) % Placebo ( N = 84 ) % Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 8 7 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 10 8 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 14 5 Psychiatric disorders Irritability 6 2 Mood Swings 5 1 In the placebo - controlled study , 5 % of patients receiving levetiracetam and 8 % receiving placebo either discontinued or had a dose reduction during the treatment period as a result of an adverse reaction .
This study was too small to adequately characterize the adverse reactions that could be expected to result in discontinuation of treatment in this population .
It is expected that the adverse reactions that would lead to discontinuation in this population would be similar to those resulting in discontinuation in other epilepsy trials ( see tables 4 and 8 ) .
In addition , the following adverse reactions were seen in other well - controlled adult studies of levetiracetam : balance disorder , disturbance in attention , eczema , memory impairment , myalgia , and vision blurred .
Comparison Of Gender , Age And Race The overall adverse reaction profile of levetiracetam was similar between females and males .
There are insufficient data to support a statement regarding the distribution of adverse experience reports by age and race .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of levetiracetam .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above , [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] , the following adverse events have been reported in patients receiving marketed levetiracetam worldwide .
The listing is alphabetized : abnormal liver function test , acute kidney injury , anaphylaxis , angioedema , agranulocytosis , choreoathetosis , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , dyskinesia , erythema multiforme , hepatic failure , hepatitis , leukopenia , neutropenia , pancreatitis , pancytopenia ( with bone marrow suppression identified in some of these cases ) , panic attack , thrombocytopenia , and weight loss .
Alopecia has been reported with levetiracetam use ; recovery was observed in majority of cases where levetiracetam was discontinued .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed between levetiracetam or its major metabolite and concomitant medications via human liver cytochrome P450 isoforms , epoxide hydrolase , UDP - glucuronidation enzymes , P - glycoprotein , or renal tubular secretion [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Plasma levels of levetiracetam may be decreased and therefore need to be monitored closely during pregnancy .
Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 5 . 9 , 8 . 1 ) Revised : 03 / 13 Information describing the use of levetiracetam tablets and levetiracetam oral solution in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Levetiracetam levels may decrease during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
In animal studies , levetiracetam produced evidence of developmental toxicity , including teratogenic effects , at doses similar to or greater than human therapeutic doses .
Levetiracetam should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral administration of levetiracetam to female rats throughout pregnancy and lactation led to increased incidences of minor fetal skeletal abnormalities and retarded offspring growth pre - and / or postnatally at doses ≥ 350 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the maximum recommended human dose of 3000 mg [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) and with increased pup mortality and offspring behavioral alterations at a dose of 1800 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The developmental no effect dose was 70 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2basis ) .
There was no overt maternal toxicity at the doses used in this study .
Oral administration of levetiracetam to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in increased embryofetal mortality and increased incidences of minor fetal skeletal abnormalities at doses ≥ 600 mg / kg / day ( 4 times MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) and in decreased fetal weights and increased incidences of fetal malformations at a dose of 1800 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The developmental no effect dose was 200 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Maternal toxicity was also observed at 1800 mg / kg / day .
When levetiracetam was administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , fetal weights were decreased and the incidence of fetal skeletal variations was increased at a dose of 3600 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD ) .
1200 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the MRHD ) was a developmental no effect dose .
There was no evidence of maternal toxicity in this study .
Treatment of rats with levetiracetam during the last third of gestation and throughout lactation produced no adverse developmental or maternal effects at doses of up to 1800 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Registry To provide information regarding the effects of in utero exposure to levetiracetam , physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients taking levetiracetam enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) pregnancy registry .
This can be done by calling the toll free number 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 , and must be done by the patients themselves .
Information on the registry can also be found at the website http : / / www . aedpregnancyregistry . org / .
8 . 2 Labor And Delivery The e ffect of le veti racetam on la bor a nd deli v e ry in hum a ns is u nknow n . 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Levetiracetam is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from levetiracetam , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or dscontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of levetiracetam in the adjunctive treatment of partial onset seizures in pediatric patients age 4 years to 16 years old with epilepsy have been established [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The dosing recommendation in these pediatric patients varies according to age group and is weight - based [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Pediatric use information in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
The safety and effectiveness of levetiracetam as adjunctive treatment of myoclonic seizures in adolescents 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy have been established [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy have been established [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
A 3 - month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study was performed to assess the neurocognitive and behavioral effects of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy in 98 ( levetiracetam N = 64 , placebo N = 34 ) pediatric patients , ages 4 to 16 years old , with partial seizures that were inadequately controlled .
The target dose was 60 mg / kg / day .
Neurocognitive effects were measured by the Leiter - R Attention and Memory ( AM ) Battery , which measures various aspects of a child ' s memory and attention .
Although no substantive differences were observed between the placebo and drug treated groups in the median change from baseline in this battery , the study was not adequate to assess formal statistical non - inferiority of the drug and placebo .
The Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist ( CBCL / 6 - 18 ) , a standardized validated tool used to assess a child ' s competencies and behavioral / emotional problems , was also assessed in this study .
An analysis of the CBCL / 6 - 18 indicated on average a worsening in levetiracetam - treated patients in aggressive behavior , one of the eight syndrome scores .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Studies of levetiracetam in juvenile rats ( dosing from day 4 through day 52 of age ) and dogs ( dosing from week 3 through week 7 of age ) at doses of up to 1800 mg / kg / day ( approximately 7 and 24 times , respectively , the maximum recommended pediatric dose of 60 mg / kg / day on a mg / m2basis ) did not indicate a potential for age - specific toxicity .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There were 347 subjects in clinical studies of levetiracetam that were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
There were insufficient numbers of elderly subjects in controlled trials of epilepsy to adequately assess the effectiveness of levetiracetam in these patients .
Levetiracetam is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Use In Patients With Impaired Renal Function Clearance of levetiracetam is decreased in patients with renal impairment and is correlated with creatinine clearance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dose adjustment is recommended for patients with impaired renal function and supplemental doses should be given to patients after dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs , Symptoms And Laboratory Findings Of Acute The highest known dose of levetiracetam received in the clinical development program was 6000 mg / day .
Other than drowsiness , there were no adverse events in the few known cases of overdose in clinical trials .
Cases of somnolence , agitation , aggression , depressed level of consciousness , respiratory depression and coma were observed with levetiracetam overdoses in postmarketing use .
10 . 2 Management Of Overdose There is no specific antidote for overdose with levetiracetam .
If indicated , elimination of unabsorbed drug should be attempted by emesis or gastric lavage ; usual precautions should be observed to maintain airway .
General supportive care of the patient is indicated including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the patient ' s clinical status .
A Certified Poison Control Center should be contacted for up to date information on the management of overdose with levetiracetam .
10 . 3 Hemodialysis Standard hemodialysis procedures result in significant clearance of levetiracetam ( approximately 50 % in 4 hours ) and should be considered in cases of overdose .
Although hemodialysis has not been performed in the few known cases of overdose , it may be indicated by the patient ' s clinical state or in patients with significant renal impairment .
11 DESCRIPTION Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is an antiepileptic drug available as a clear , colorless , grape - flavored liquid ( 100 mg / mL ) for oral administration .
The chemical name of levetiracetam , a single enantiomer , is ( - ) - ( S ) - α - ethyl - 2 - oxo - 1 - pyrrolidine acetamide , its molecular formula is C8H14N2O2 and its molecular weight is 170 . 21 .
Levetiracetam is chemically unrelated to existing antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levetiracetam is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a faint odor and a bitter taste .
It is very soluble in water ( 104 . 0 g / 100 mL ) .
It is freely soluble in chloroform ( 65 . 3 g / 100 mL ) and in methanol ( 53 . 6 g / 100 mL ) , soluble in ethanol ( 16 . 5 g / 100 mL ) , sparingly soluble in acetonitrile ( 5 . 7 g / 100 mL ) and practically insoluble in n - hexane .
( Solubility limits are expressed as g / 100 mL solvent . )
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP contains 100 mg of levetiracetam per mL .
Inactive ingredients : acesulfame potassium , artificial grape flavor , citric acid , glycerin , maltitol solution , methylparaben , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism ( s ) by which levetiracetam exerts its antiepileptic effect is unknown .
The antiepileptic activity of levetiracetam was assessed in a number of animal models of epileptic seizures .
Levetiracetam did not inhibit single seizures induced by maximal stimulation with electrical current or different chemoconvulsants and showed only minimal activity in submaximal stimulation and in threshold tests .
Protection was observed , however , against secondarily generalized activity from focal seizures induced by pilocarpine and kainic acid , two chemoconvulsants that induce seizures that mimic some features of human complex partial seizures with secondary generalization .
Levetiracetam also displayed inhibitory properties in the kindling model in rats , another model of human complex partial seizures , both during kindling development and in the fully kindled state .
The predictive value of these animal models for specific types of human epilepsy is uncertain .
In vitro and in vivo recordings of epileptiform activity from the hippocampus have shown that levetiracetam inhibits burst firing without affecting normal neuronal excitability , suggesting that levetiracetam may selectively prevent hypersynchronization of epileptiform burst firing and propagation of seizure activity .
Levetiracetam at concentrations of up to 10 μM did not demonstrate binding affinity for a variety of known receptors , such as those associated with benzodiazepines , GABA ( gamma - aminobutyric acid ) , glycine , NMDA ( N - methyl - D - aspartate ) , re - uptake sites , and second messenger systems .
Furthermore , in vitrostudies have failed to find an effect of levetiracetam on neuronal voltage - gated sodium or T - type calcium currents and levetiracetam does not appear to directly facilitate GABAergic neurotransmission .
However , in vitrostudies have demonstrated that levetiracetam opposes the activity of negative modulators of GABA - and glycine - gated currents and partially inhibits N - type calcium currents in neuronal cells .
A saturable and stereoselective neuronal binding site in rat brain tissue has been described for levetiracetam .
Experimental data indicate that this binding site is the synaptic vesicle protein SV2A , thought to be involved in the regulation of vesicle exocytosis .
Although the molecular significance of levetiracetam binding to SV2A is not understood , levetiracetam and related analogs showed a rank order of affinity for SV2A which correlated with the potency of their antiseizure activity in audiogenic seizure - prone mice .
These findings suggest that the interaction of levetiracetam with the SV2A protein may contribute to the antiepileptic mechanism of action of the drug .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on QTc Interval The effect of levetiracetam on QTc prolongation was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , positive - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) and placebo - controlled crossover study of levetiracetam ( 1000 mg or 5000 mg ) in 52 healthy subjects .
The upper bound of the 90 % confidence interval for the largest placebo - adjusted , baseline - corrected QTc was below 10 milliseconds .
Therefore , there was no evidence of significant QTc prolongation in this study .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Distribution Absorption of levetiracetam is rapid , with peak plasma concentrations occurring in about an hour following oral administration in fasted subjects .
The oral bioavailability of levetiracetam tablets is 100 % and the tablets and oral solution are bioequivalent in rate and extent of absorption .
Food does not affect the extent of absorption of levetiracetam but it decreases Cmax by 20 % and delays Tmax by 1 . 5 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam are linear over the dose range of 500 to 5000 mg .
Steady state is achieved after 2 days of multiple twice - daily dosing .
Levetiracetam and its major metabolite are less than 10 % bound to plasma proteins ; clinically significant interactions with other drugs through competition for protein binding sites are therefore unlikely .
Metabolism Levetiracetam is not extensively metabolized in humans .
The major metabolic pathway is the enzymatic hydrolysis of the acetamide group , which produces the carboxylic acid metabolite , ucb L057 ( 24 % of dose ) and is not dependent on any liver cytochrome P450 isoenzymes .
The major metabolite is inactive in animal seizure models .
Two minor metabolites were identified as the product of hydroxylation of the 2 - oxo - pyrrolidine ring ( 2 % of dose ) and opening of the 2 - oxo - pyrrolidine ring in position 5 ( 1 % of dose ) .
There is no enantiomeric interconversion of levetiracetam or its major metabolite .
Elimination Levetiracetam plasma half - life in adults is 7 ± 1 hour and is unaffected by either dose or repeated administration .
Levetiracetam is eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion as unchanged drug which represents 66 % of administered dose .
The total body clearance is 0 . 96 mL / min / kg and the renal clearance is 0 . 6 mL / min / kg .
The mechanism of excretion is glomerular filtration with subsequent partial tubular reabsorption .
The metabolite ucb L057 is excreted by glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion with a renal clearance of 4 mL / min / kg .
Levetiracetam elimination is correlated to creatinine clearance .
Levetiracetam clearance is reduced in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Specific Populations : Elderly Pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were evaluated in 16 elderly subjects ( age 61 to 88 years ) with creatinine clearance ranging from 30 to 74 mL / min .
Following oral administration of twice - daily dosing for 10 days , total body clearance decreased by 38 % and the half - life was 2 . 5 hours longer in the elderly compared to healthy adults .
This is most likely due to the decrease in renal function in these subjects .
Pediatric Patients Pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were evaluated in 24 pediatric patients ( age 6 to 12 years ) after single dose ( 20 mg / kg ) .
The body weight adjusted apparent clearance of levetiracetam was approximately 40 % higher than in adults .
A repeat dose pharmacokinetic study was conducted in pediatric patients ( age 4 to 12 years ) at doses of 20 mg / kg / day , 40 mg / kg / day , and 60 mg / kg / day .
The evaluation of the pharmacokinetic profile of levetiracetam and its metabolite ( ucb L057 ) in 14 pediatric patients demonstrated rapid absorption of levetiracetam at all doses with a Tmax of about 1 hour and a t1 / 2 of 5 hours across the three dosing levels .
The pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam in children was linear between 20 to 60 mg / kg / day .
The potential interaction of levetiracetam with other AEDs was also evaluated in these patients .
Levetiracetam had no significant effect on the plasma concentrations of carbamazepine , valproic acid , topiramate or lamotrigine .
However , there was about a 22 % increase of apparent clearance of levetiracetam when it was co - administered with an enzyme - inducing AED ( e . g . carbamazepine ) .
Pharmacokinetics information in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that body weight was significantly correlated to the clearance of levetiracetam in pediatric patients ; clearance increased with an increase in body weight .
Pregnancy Levetiracetam levels may decrease during pregnancy .
Gender Levetiracetam Cmax and AUC were 20 % higher in women ( N = 11 ) compared to men ( N = 12 ) .
However , clearances adjusted for body weight were comparable .
Race Formal pharmacokinetic studies of the effects of race have not been conducted .
Cross study comparisons involving Caucasians ( N = 12 ) and Asians ( N = 12 ) , however , show that pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were comparable between the two races .
Because levetiracetam is primarily renally excreted and there are no important racial differences in creatinine clearance , pharmacokinetic differences due to race are not expected .
Renal Impairment The disposition of levetiracetam was studied in adult subjects with varying degrees of renal function .
Total body clearance of levetiracetam is reduced in patients with impaired renal function by 40 % in the mild group ( CLcr = 50 to 80 mL / min ) , 50 % in the moderate group ( CLcr = 30 to 50 mL / min ) and 60 % in the severe renal impairment group ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) .
Clearance of levetiracetam is correlated with creatinine clearance .
In anuric ( end stage renal disease ) patients , the total body clearance decreased 70 % compared to normal subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) .
Approximately 50 % of the pool of levetiracetam in the body is removed during a standard 4 - hour hemodialysis procedure .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with impaired renal function receiving levetiracetam , and supplemental doses should be given to patients after dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment In subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh A ) to moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment , the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were unchanged .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) , total body clearance was 50 % that of normal subjects , but decreased renal clearance accounted for most of the decrease .
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions : In vitro data on metabolic interactions indicate that levetiracetam is unlikely to produce , or be subject to , pharmacokinetic interactions .
Levetiracetam and its major metabolite , at concentrations well above Cmax levels achieved within the therapeutic dose range , are neither inhibitors of , nor high affinity substrates for , human liver cytochrome P450 isoforms , epoxide hydrolase or UDP - glucuronidation enzymes .
In addition , levetiracetam does not affect the in vitroglucuronidation of valproic acid .
Potential pharmacokinetic interactions of or with levetiracetam were assessed in clinical pharmacokinetic studies ( phenytoin , valproate , warfarin , digoxin , oral contraceptive , probenecid ) and through pharmacokinetic screening in the placebo - controlled clinical studies in epilepsy patients .
Phenytoin Levetiracetam ( 3000 mg daily ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetic disposition of phenytoin in patients with refractory epilepsy .
Pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were also not affected by phenytoin .
Valproate Levetiracetam ( 1500 mg twice daily ) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of valproate in healthy volunteers .
Valproate 500 mg twice daily did not modify the rate or extent of levetiracetam absorption or its plasma clearance or urinary excretion .
There also was no effect on exposure to and the excretion of the primary metabolite , ucb L057 .
Other Antiepileptic Drugs Potential drug interactions between levetiracetam and other AEDs ( carbamazepine , gabapentin , lamotrigine , phenobarbital , phenytoin , primidone and valproate ) were also assessed by evaluating the serum concentrations of levetiracetam and these AEDs during placebo - controlled clinical studies .
These data indicate that levetiracetam does not influence the plasma concentration of other AEDs and that these AEDs do not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam .
Effect Of AEDs In Pediatric Patients There was about a 22 % increase of apparent total body clearance of levetiracetam when it was co - administered with enzyme - inducing AEDs .
Dose adjustment is not recommended .
Levetiracetam had no effect on plasma concentrations of carbamazepine , valproate , topiramate , or lamotrigine .
Oral Contraceptives Levetiracetam ( 500 mg twice daily ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive containing 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol and 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel , or of the luteinizing hormone and progesterone levels , indicating that impairment of contraceptive efficacy is unlikely .
Coadministration of this oral contraceptive did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam .
Digoxin Levetiracetam ( 1000 mg twice daily ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ( ECG ) of digoxin given as a 0 . 25 mg dose every day .
Coadministration of digoxin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam .
Warfarin Levetiracetam ( 1000 mg twice daily ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of R and S warfarin .
Prothrombin time was not affected by levetiracetam .
Coadministration of warfarin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam .
Probenecid Probenecid , a renal tubular secretion blocking agent , administered at a dose of 500 mg four times a day , did not change the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam 1000 mg twice daily .
Css max of the metabolite , ucb L057 , was approximately doubled in the presence of probenecid while the fraction of drug excreted unchanged in the urine remained the same .
Renal clearance of ucb L057 in the presence of probenecid decreased 60 % , probably related to competitive inhibition of tubular secretion of ucb L057 .
The effect of levetiracetam on probenecid was not studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenesis Rats were dosed with levetiracetam in the diet for 104 weeks at doses of 50 , 300 and 1800 mg / kg / day .
The highest dose is 6 times the maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRHD ) of 3000 mg on a mg / m2 basis and it also provided systemic exposure ( AUC ) approximately 6 times that achieved in humans receiving the MRHD .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity .
In mice , oral administration of levetiracetam for 80 weeks ( doses up to 960 mg / kg / day ) or 2 years ( doses up to 4000 mg / kg / day , lowered to 3000 mg / kg / day after 45 weeks due to intolerability ) was not associated with an increase in tumors .
The highest dose tested in mice for 2 years ( 3000 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Levetiracetam was not mutagenic in the Ames test or in mammalian cells in vitro in the Chinese hamster ovary / HGPRT locus assay .
It was not clastogenic in an in vitroanalysis of metaphase chromosomes obtained from Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivomouse micronucleus assay .
The hydrolysis product and major human metabolite of levetiracetam ( ucb L057 ) was not mutagenic in the Ames test or the in vitromouse lymphoma assay .
Impairment Of Fertility No adverse effects on male or female fertility or reproductive performance were observed in rats at oral doses up to 1800 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 or systemic exposure [ AUC ] basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In the following studies , statistical significance versus placebo indicates a p value < 0 . 05 .
14 . 1 Partial Onset Seizures Effectiveness In Partial Onset Seizures In Adults With Epilepsy The effectiveness of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy ( added to other antiepileptic drugs ) in adults was established in three multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical studies in patients who had refractory partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalization .
The tablet formulation was used in all these studies .
In these studies , 904 patients were randomized to placebo , 1000 mg , 2000 mg , or 3000 mg / day .
Patients enrolled in Study 1 or Study 2 had refractory partial onset seizures for at least two years and had taken two or more classical AEDs .
Patients enrolled in Study 3 had refractory partial onset seizures for at least 1 year and had taken one classical AED .
At the time of the study , patients were taking a stable dose regimen of at least one and could take a maximum of two AEDs .
During the baseline period , patients had to have experienced at least two partial onset seizures during each 4 - week period .
Study 1 Study 1 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study conducted at 41 sites in the United States comparing levetiracetam 1000 mg / day ( N = 97 ) , levetiracetam 3000 mg / day ( N = 101 ) , and placebo ( N = 95 ) given in equally divided doses twice daily .
After a prospective baseline period of 12 weeks , patients were randomized to one of the three treatment groups described above .
The 18 - week treatment period consisted of a 6 - week titration period , followed by a 12 - week fixed dose evaluation period , during which concomitant AED regimens were held constant .
The primary measure of effectiveness was a between group comparison of the percent reduction in weekly partial seizure frequency relative to placebo over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) .
Secondary outcome variables included the responder rate ( incidence of patients with ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency ) .
The results of the analysis of Study 1 are displayed in Table 10 .
Table 10 : Reduction In Mean Over Placebo In Weekly Frequency Of Partial Onset Seizures In Study 1 Placebo ( N = 95 ) Levetiracetam 1000 mg / day ( N = 97 ) Levetiracetam 3000 mg / day ( N = 101 ) * statistically significant versus placebo Percent reduction in partial seizure frequency over placebo ___ 26 . 1 % * 30 . 1 % * The percentage of patients ( y - axis ) who achieved ≥ 50 % reduction in weekly seizure rates from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) within the three treatment groups ( x - axis ) is presented in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Responder Rate ( ≥ 50 % Reduction From Baseline ) In Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] * statistically significant versus placebo Study 2 Study 2 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study conducted at 62 centers in Europe comparing levetiracetam 1000 mg / day ( N = 106 ) , levetiracetam 2000 mg / day ( N = 105 ) , and placebo ( N = 111 ) given in equally divided doses twice daily .
The first period of the study ( Period A ) was designed to be analyzed as a parallel - group study .
After a prospective baseline period of up to 12 weeks , patients were randomized to one of the three treatment groups described above .
The 16 - week treatment period consisted of the 4 - week titration period followed by a 12 - week fixed dose evaluation period , during which concomitant AED regimens were held constant .
The primary measure of effectiveness was a between group comparison of the percent reduction in weekly partial seizure frequency relative to placebo over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) .
Secondary outcome variables included the responder rate ( incidence of patients with ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency ) .
The results of the analysis of Period A are displayed in Table 11 .
Table 11 : Reduction In Mean Over Placebo In Weekly Frequency Of Partial Onset Seizures In Study 2 : Period A Placebo ( N = 111 ) Levetiracetam 1000 mg / day ( N = 106 ) Levetiracetam 2000 mg / day ( N = 105 ) * statistically significant versus placebo Percent reduction in partial seizure frequency over placebo ___ 17 . 1 % * 21 . 4 % * The percentage of patients ( y - axis ) who achieved ≥ 50 % reduction in weekly seizure rates from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) within the three treatment groups ( x - axis ) is presented in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 : Responder Rate ( ≥ 50 % Reduction From Baseline ) In Study 2 : Period A [ MULTIMEDIA ] * statistically significant versus placebo The comparison of levetiracetam 2000 mg / day to levetiracetam 1000 mg / day for responder rate was statistically significant ( P = 0 . 02 ) .
Analysis of the trial as a cross - over yielded similar results .
Study 3 Study 3 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study conducted at 47 centers in Europe comparing levetiracetam 3000 mg / day ( N = 180 ) and placebo ( N = 104 ) in patients with refractory partial onset seizures , with or without secondary generalization , receiving only one concomitant AED .
Study drug was given in two divided doses .
After a prospective baseline period of 12 weeks , patients were randomized to one of two treatment groups described above .
The 16 - week treatment period consisted of a 4 - week titration period , followed by a 12 - week fixed dose evaluation period , during which concomitant AED doses were held constant .
The primary measure of effectiveness was a between group comparison of the percent reduction in weekly seizure frequency relative to placebo over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) .
Secondary outcome variables included the responder rate ( incidence of patients with ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency ) .
Table 12 displays the results of the analysis of Study 3 .
Table 12 : Reduction In Mean Over Placebo In Weekly Frequency Of Partial Onset Seizures In Study 3 Placebo ( N = 104 ) Levetiracetam 3000 mg / day ( N = 180 ) * statistically significant versus placebo Percent reduction in partial seizure frequency over placebo – 23 . 0 % * The percentage of patients ( y - axis ) who achieved ≥ 50 % reduction in weekly seizure rates from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) within the two treatment groups ( x - axis ) is presented in Figure 3 .
Figure 3 : Responder Rate ( ≥ 50 % Reduction From Baseline ) In Study 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] * statistically significant versus placebo Effectiveness In Partial Onset Seizures In Pediatric Patients 4 Years To 16 Years With Epilepsy The effectiveness of levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy ( added to other antiepileptic drugs ) in pediatric patients was established in one multicenter , randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled study , conducted at 60 sites in North America , in children 4 to 16 years of age with partial seizures uncontrolled by standard antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) .
Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 2 AEDs , who still experienced at least 4 partial onset seizures during the 4 weeks prior to screening , as well as at least 4 partial onset seizures in each of the two 4 - week baseline periods , were randomized to receive either levetiracetam or placebo .
The enrolled population included 198 patients ( levetiracetam N = 101 , placebo N = 97 ) with refractory partial onset seizures , whether or not secondarily generalized .
The study consisted of an 8 - week baseline period and 4 - week titration period followed by a 10 week evaluation period .
Dosing was initiated at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day in two divided doses .
During the treatment period , levetiracetam doses were adjusted in 20 mg / kg / day increments , at 2 - week intervals to the target dose of 60 mg / kg / day .
The primary measure of effectiveness was a between group comparison of the percent reduction in weekly partial seizure frequency relative to placebo over the entire 14 - week randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) .
Secondary outcome variables included the responder rate ( incidence of patients with ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency per week ) .
Table 13 displays the results of this study .
Table 13 : Reduction In Mean Over Placebo In Weekly Frequency Of Partial Onset Seizures Placebo ( N = 97 ) Levetiracetam ( N = 101 ) * statistically significant versus placebo Percent reduction in partial seizure frequency over placebo - 26 . 8 % * The percentage of patients ( y - axis ) who achieved ≥ 50 % reduction in weekly seizure rates from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency over the entire randomized treatment period ( titration + evaluation period ) within the two treatment groups ( x - axis ) is presented in Figure 4 .
Figure 4 : Responder Rate ( ≥ 50 % Reduction From Baseline ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical trial information in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ' s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Myoclonic Seizures In Patients With Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Effective ne ss Of My ocl onic Sei z u res In Patie nts ≥ 12 Ye a rs Of Age With J uve nile My ocl o nic Epile p sy ( JM E ) The e ffecti ve ne ss of le veti rac etam as a dj uncti ve t he r a py ( a d ded to ot h er a ntie pile ptic d rug s ) in patie nts 12 yea rs of a ge a nd ol der with j uve nile m y ocl onic e pile p sy ( J ME ) e xpe ri e nci ng m yocl o nic seiz ures was e sta bl i s hed in o ne multice nte r , r a ndomiz e d , do ubl e - bli n d , place bo - c o nt rolled st u d y , c on ducted at 37 sites in 14 c o unt r ie s . Of t he 120 patie nts e n r olle d , 1 13 had a dia g no sis of c o n fi rmed or s u s pected J ME .
Eli gi ble patie nts on a sta ble do se of 1 a ntie pile ptic drug ( A ED ) e x pe rie n ci ng one or m ore m yocl o nic sei zures per d ay for at lea st 8 d a ys duri ng t he p ro s pecti ve 8 - week ba seli ne p e ri od we re r a nd o mized to eit h er le veti racetam or place bo ( le veti racetam N = 60 , place bo N = 6 0 ) .
Patie nts we re tit rated over 4 wee ks to a ta rget do se of 3 000 mg / day a nd t reated at a sta ble do se of 3000 mg / d ay over 12 wee ks ( e va l uati on p eri od ) .
St u dy d r ug was gi v en in 2 di vi d ed do se s .
The pri ma ry mea s ure of e f fec ti ve ne ss was t he prop o rti on of patie nts with at lea st 50 % re ducti on in t he nu m ber of d a ys per we ek with one or more myoc l onic sei zu res duri ng t he t reat me nt p e ri od ( tit rati on + e val uati on pe r i od s ) as c ompa red to ba seli ne .
T a ble 14 di s pla ys t he re s ults for t he 113 patie nts with JME in t his st udy .
Ta ble 14 : Re s pond er Rate ( ≥ 5 0 % Re ducti on F rom Ba seli ne ) In M yoc l onic Seiz ure Da ys Per Week for Patie nts with J ME Pl acebo ( N = 59 ) Le ve tir ace tam ( N = 54 ) Pe rce nta ge of re s po n de rs 23 . 7 % 60 . 4 % * * stati stica lly si gni fica nt ve r sus place bo 14 . 3 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures Effective ne ss In P rim a ry Ge n e r ali zed T onic - Cl onic Sei z u res In Patie nts ≥ 6 Ye a rs Of Age The e ffecti ve ne ss of le veti rac etam as a dj uncti ve t he r a py ( a d ded to ot h er a ntie pile ptic d rug s ) in patie nts 6 ye a rs of a ge a nd ol der with i di opat hic g e ne ralized e pile p sy e xpe ri e nci ng pri ma ry ge n e r alized t onic - cl onic ( PG T C ) sei z ures was e sta bli s hed in one m ultice nte r , ra ndomiz e d , d ouble - bli nd , pl ace bo - c o nt rolled st u d y , c o ndu cted at 50 sites in 8 c o unt rie s . Eli gi ble patie nts on a sta ble d o se of 1 or 2 a ntie pile ptic dr u gs ( A ED s ) e x pe rie nci ng at lea st 3 PG TC seiz ures duri ng t he 8 - week c om bi ned ba seli ne pe r i od ( at lea st o ne PG TC seiz ure duri ng t he 4 wee ks pr i or to t he pro s pecti ve ba seli ne pe ri od a nd at lea st one PG TC seiz ure duri ng t he 4 - week p r os pecti ve ba seli ne pe ri od ) we re ra n dom ized to eit her le veti racetam or place bo .
T he 8 - we ek c o m bi n ed ba seli ne pe ri od is re fe rr ed to as " ba seli ne " in t he re mai n der of t his secti on .
The po p ulati on i ncl u ded 164 patie nts ( le veti racetam N = 8 0 , place bo N = 84 ) with i di opa t hic ge ne ralized e pile p sy ( pr e domi nately j uve nile myocl onic e pile p s y , j uv e n ile a b se nce e pile p s y , c hil d ho od a b se nce e pile p s y , or e pile p sy with G ra nd Mal seiz ures on awa ke ni n g ) e xpe rie nci ng pri m a ry g e ne rali zed t onic - cl o nic seiz ure s . Each of t he se s ynd r omes of i di opa t hic ge ne ralized e pil e p sy was well re pre se nted in t his patie nt p op ulati on .
Patie nts we re tit rated over 4 wee ks to a ta rget do se of 3 0 00 mg / day f or a dults or a pe diat r ic ta rget do se of 60 mg / k g / day a nd t reated at a sta ble do se of 3000 mg / d ay ( or 60 mg / kg / d ay for c hil dre n ) over 20 wee ks ( e va l uati on pe r i od ) .
St udy drug was gi ven in 2 e qually di vi ded d o ses per da y .
The pri ma ry mea s ure of e f fec ti ve ne ss was t he pe rce nt re d ucti on fr om ba seli ne in wee k ly PG TC seiz ure fre que n cy f or le veti racetam a nd place bo t reat me nt gr o ups over t he t reat me nt p e ri od ( tit r ati on + e val uati on pe ri o d s ) .
T he re was a stati stic ally si gni fica nt dec rea se from ba seli ne in PG TC fre qu e ncy in t he le veti raceta m - t reat ed patie nts c omp a red to t he pl ace bo - t reated patie nt s . Ta ble 15 : Me di an Pe rce nt Re d ucti on F rom Ba seli ne In PG TC Seiz ure F re que ncy Per We ek Pl acebo ( N = 84 ) Le ve tir ace tam ( N = 78 ) Pe rce nt re ducti on in PG TC seiz ure fre qu e ncy 44 . 6 % 77 . 6 % * * stati stica lly si gni fica nt ve r sus place bo The pe rc e nta ge of patie nts ( y - a xi s ) w ho ac hie v ed ≥ 5 0 % re d ucti on in wee k ly seiz ure rates from ba seli ne in PG TC seiz ure fre qu e ncy over t he e nti re ra n domiz ed t r eat me nt pe ri od ( tit rati on + e va l uati on pe r i od ) wit hin t he two t reat me nt g r oups ( x - a xi s ) is pr e se nted in Fi gure 6 .
Fi gure 6 : Re s ponder Rate ( ≥ 5 0 % Re ducti on F rom Ba seli ne ) In PG TC Seiz ure F re que n cy Per Week [ MULTIMEDIA ] * statistically significant versus placebo [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP 1 00 mg / mL is a clea r , c ol o rle ss , gra p e - fla v o red li qu i d .
It is su pplied in 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) w hite HDPE bottles ( NDC 62332 - 626 - 16 ) .
16 . 2 Storage St ore at 20 ° to 2 5 ° C ( 68 ° to 7 7 ° F ) ; e x c ur si ons pe rmitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP C ont rolled R oom Te mpe rat u re ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
Di s pe n se acc ompa nyi ng Me d icati on G ui de to ea ch patie nt .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Counsel patients on the benefits and risks of receiving levetiracetam .
Provide the Medication Guide to patients and / or caregivers , and instruct them to read the Medication Guide prior to taking levetiracetam .
Instruct patients to take levetiracetam only as prescribed .
Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Counsel patients , their caregivers , and / or families that antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , including levetiracetam , may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and advise patients to be alert for the emergence or worsening of symptoms of depression ; unusual changes in mood or behavior ; or suicidal thoughts , behavior , or thoughts about self - harm .
Advise patients , their caregivers , and / or families to immediately report behaviors of concern to a healthcare provider .
Psychiatric Reactions and Changes in Behavior Advise patients that levetiracetam may cause changes in behavior ( e . g . aggression , agitation , anger , anxiety , apathy , depression , hostility , and irritability ) and in rare cases , psychotic symptoms have occurred .
Effects on Driving or Operating Machinery Inform patients that levetiracetam may cause dizziness and somnolence .
Inform patients not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on levetiracetam to gauge whether it adversely affects their ability to drive or operate machinery .
Anaphylaxis and Angioedema Advise patients to discontinue Levetiracetam and seek medical care if they develop signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis or angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Dermatological Adverse Reactions Advise patients that serious dermatological adverse reactions have occurred in patients treated with levetiracetam and instruct them to call their physician immediately if a rash develops .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during levetiracetam therapy .
Encourage patients to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) pregnancy registry if they become pregnant .
This registry is collecting information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
To enroll , patients can call the toll free number 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 [ see Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Carmel , NY 10512 Manufactured for : Alembic Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
750 Route 202 , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Rev . 09 / 19 MEDICATION GUIDE Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP Read t his Me dicati on G ui de be fore y ou sta rt ta ki ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP a nd ea ch ti me you get a r e fill .
The re m ay be new i nformati o n .
This i n f ormati on does not ta ke t he place of tal k i ng to y our healt hca re pr o vi der a bout your me dical c o nditi on or t reat me nt .
Wh at is the m o st imp or tant in form ati on I sh ould kn ow ab out Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Like other an tiepilep tic dr u g s , Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP m ay c au se suicid al th ou g h ts or ac ti ons in a very sm all number of pe ople , ab out 1 in 500 pe ople taking i t . C all a he al thc are pr ovider r i ght aw ay if you h ave any of the se s ymp to m s , e speci ally if they are new , w or se , or w or ry you : • t houghts a b out s uici de or d yi ng • atte mpts to c ommit s uici de • new or w or se de pre ssi on • new or w or se a nxiety • feeli ng a gitated or re stle ss • pa nic attac ks • t rouble slee pi ng ( i n s omnia ) • new or w or se i r rita bility • acti ng a ggre ssi ve , be i ng a n g r y , or vi ole nt • acti ng on da ng e rous i m p ul ses • an e xt re me i n c rea se in acti v ity a nd tal ki ng ( m a nia ) • ot her u nu s ual c h a nges in b e ha vi or or m o od Do n ot s top Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP wi th out fir st talking to a he al thc are pr ovide r . • St oppi ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP s udde n ly can c a u se se ri ous pr o ble m s . St oppi ng a seiz ure me dici ne su dde n ly can c a u se seiz ures t hat will not st op ( stat us e pile ptic u s ) .
• S uici dal t hou g hts or acti ons can be ca u sed by t h i ngs ot her t han me dici ne s .
If y ou h a ve suici dal t hou g hts or acti on s , y o ur healt hca re provi d er may c heck for ot her ca u se s . How c an I w atch for e arly symp toms of suic id al th ou gh ts and ac ti on s ?
• Pay atte nti on to a ny c h a nge s , e s pecially s udden c ha nge s , in mo o d , b e ha vi or s , t h ou g ht s , or feeli ng s . • Keep all foll ow - up vi sits wi th yo ur healt hc a re p r ovi der as sc he dule d . • Call your healt hca re pr o vi d er between vi sits as nee de d , e specially if you a re w o r ried a bo ut s ympt om s . Wh at is Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USPis a pre sc ri pti on m e dici ne ta k en by m o uth t hat is u sed with ot her me dici nes to t reat : • pa rtial on set seiz ures in pe ople 4 years of a ge a nd ol d er with e pile p sy • myocl onic seiz ures in pe ople 12 ye a rs of a ge a nd ol der wi th j uve nile m yocl o nic e pile p sy • pri ma ry ge ne ralized t oni c - c l onic seiz ures in pe o ple 6 yea rs of a ge a nd ol der with ce rtain t ypes of g e ne ralized e pile p s y .
It is not kno wn if Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is sa fe or e ffe cti ve in c hil dren u n der 1 mon th of a ge .
Be fore ta ki ng yo ur me dici ne , ma ke s ure y ou ha ve recei v ed t he c orrect me dici ne .
C o m pa re t he na me a bove with t he na me on y our bottle a nd t he a ppea ra nce of y our m e dici ne with t he de sc ri p ti on of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP p r ovi d ed bel ow .
Tell yo ur pha rmaci st i mme diately if y ou t hi nk y ou ha ve be en gi v en t he w r o ng m e dici ne .
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USPis a clea r , c ol orle ss , gr a pe - fla v o red li qui d . Who should not take Levetiracetam Oral solution ?
Do not take Levetiracetam oral solution if you are allergic to levetiracetam .
Wh at sh ould I tell my he al thc are pr ovider be fore s tar ti ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Be fore ta ki ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , tell yo ur healt hc are prov i der a b out all of y o ur me dical c onditi on s , i nc l udi ng if you : • ha ve or ha ve had de pre ssi on , mood pr o ble ms or s uici dal t h oughts or be h a vi or • ha ve ki d ney proble ms • a re pre g na nt or pla n ni ng to bec ome pr e gna nt .
It is not k n own if Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP will ha rm yo ur u n bo rn ba b y . Y ou a nd your healt hca re prov i der will ha ve to deci de if y ou sh ould t a ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP w hile you a re pr e gna nt .
If y ou bec ome pre gn a nt w hile ta ki ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , talk to yo ur healt hca re pr o vi der a bout re gi ste ri ng with t he N orth A m e rican A ntie pile ptic D rug P re g na ncy Re gi st ry .
Y ou can e n roll in t h is re gi st ry by calli ng 1 - 8 88 - 2 3 3 - 2 3 34 .
T he p u rpo se of t his r e gi st ry is to c ollect i nformati on a b o ut t he sa fety of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP a nd ot her a ntie pile ptic me dici ne dur i ng p re gn a nc y . • a re brea st fee di n g . Levetiracetam c an pa ss i n to yo ur milk a nd m ay ha rm y o ur ba b y . Y ou a nd y o ur healt h ca re pr o vi der s hould di sc u ss w het her y ou sh ould ta ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP or brea st - fee d ; you sh o uld not do bo t h . Tell your healt hca re prov i der a bout all t he m e dici nes y ou t a ke , i ncl ud i ng p re sc ri pti on a nd non p re sc ri pti on m e dici ne s , vi ta mi n s , a nd he rbal s uppl e me nt s . Do n ot sta rt a new me dici ne wit h out fi r st tal ki ng with yo ur healt hca re prov i de r . K now t he me dici nes y ou ta k e . Keep a li st of t hem to s how y our healt hc a re p r ovi d er a nd p ha rmaci st each ti me you get a new me dici ne .
How sh ould I take Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Ta ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP e xactly as p re sc ri be d . • Y our healt hc a re p r ovi der will tell you h ow much Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP to ta ke a nd w hen to ta ke it .
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP is u s ually ta ken twice a da y . Ta ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP at t he sa me ti mes each d a y . • Y our healt hc a re p r ovi der m ay c ha n ge y o ur d o se .
Do n ot c ha nge y our do se wit hout tal ki ng to y o ur healt hca re p rovi d e r . • Ta ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP with or wit h out f o od .
• If y o ur healt hc a re p r ovi d er has pre sc ri bed Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , be s ure to a sk y our pha rmaci st f or a me dici ne dr o pper or me dici ne c up to help y ou me a s ure t he c o r rect a mo u nt of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP .
Do n ot u se a h o u se hold tea s p o on .
A sk your pha rmaci st for i n st ructi ons on how to u se t he mea s uri ng de v ice t he ri ght wa y . • If y ou mi ss a do se of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , ta ke it as s oon as you re me m be r .
If it is al mo st ti me for y our ne xt d o s e , j u st s kip t he mi ssed do se .
Ta ke t he ne xt dose at your r e gular ti me .
Do n ot take two d o ses at the s ame time .
• If y ou ta ke t oo mu ch Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP , call yo ur l ocal P oi s on C ont rol Ce nter or go to t he nea re st e me rg e ncy r oom ri g ht awa y . Wh at sh ould I avoid while taking Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Do not d ri ve , o pe rate ma c hi n e ry or do ot her da nge r ous acti vities until you k n ow how Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP a ffects you .
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP may ma ke you dizzy or slee py .
Wh at are the p o ssible s ide e ffec ts of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
See “ W hat is t he mo st i mporta nt i nfo r mati on I sh ould know a bout Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ? ”
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USPc an ca u se se ri ous si de e ffect s . Call your healt hca re pr o vi der ri ght away if you ha ve a ny of t he se s ympt om s : • mood a nd b e ha vi or c ha n ges s uch as a ggre ssi on , a gitati o n , a nge r , a nxiet y , a pat hy , mo od swi ng s , de pre ssi on , h o stilit y , a nd i rrita bilit y .
A few pe ople m ay get p s yc ho tic s ympt oms s uch as hall uci n ati ons ( seei ng or hea ri ng t hi ngs t hat a re really not t he r e ) , del usi ons ( fal se or st ra nge t h ou g hts or belie f s ) a nd u n u s ual be h a vi or .
• e xt re me slee pi ne ss , ti re dne ss , a nd wea k ne ss • proble ms with mu scle c o ord i nati on ( p roble ms wal ki ng a nd movi n g ) • allergic reactions such as swelling of the face , lips , eyes , tongue , and throat , trouble swallowing or breathing , and hives .
• a s kin ra s h . Se ri ous s kin ra s hes can ha pp en a fter you sta rt ta ki ng Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP .
Th e re is no way to tell if a mild ra sh will bec ome a se ri ous reacti o n .
The mo st c om m on si de e f fects seen in pe o ple w ho ta ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP i ncl ude : • slee pi ne ss • wea kne ss • i nfecti on • dizzi ne ss The mo st c om m on si de e f fects seen in c hil dr en w ho t a ke Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP i ncl u de , in a dditi on to t h o se li sted a bove : • ti re dne ss • acti ng a ggre ssi ve • na sal c onge sti on • dec rea sed a ppetite • i rrita bility The se si de e ffects can ha p pen at a ny ti me b ut ha p pen m ore o ften wit hin t he fi r st 4 wee ks of t reat me nt e xce pt for i nfecti o n . Tell your healt hca re prov i der if you ha ve a ny si de e f fect t hat bot he rs y ou or t hat d oes not go awa y .
The se a re not all t he po ssi ble si de e ffects of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP .
F or m ore i n forma ti on , a sk y our healt hca re p rov i der or pha rmaci st . C all your d oc tor f or medic al ad vice ab out side e ffec t s . Y ou m ay rep ort side e ffec ts to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 10 8 8 .
How sh ould I s tore Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
• St ore Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP at ro om te mpe ra t ure , 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) aw ay from heat a nd li ght .
• Keep Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP and all medic ines out of the re ach of children .
Gener al in form ati on ab out Levetiracetam OralSolution , USP .
Me dici nes a re s ometi mes pre sc ri bed f or p urpo ses ot h er t han t hose li sted in a Me dicati on G ui de .
Do n ot u se Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP for a c onditi on for w hich it w as not pre sc ri be d . Do n ot gi ve Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP to ot her pe o ple , e ven if t hey ha ve t he sa me s ympt oms t hat y ou h a ve .
It may ha rm t he m .
This Me dicati on G ui de s um ma rizes t he mo st i mporta nt i nf o rmati on a b out Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP .
If y ou w ould li ke more i nformati o n , talk with y our h ealt hca re pr o vi de r . Y ou can a sk your pha r maci st or healt hca re prov i der f or i n f ormati on a b out Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP t h at is w ritten for health profe ssi onals .
Wh at are the in gredien ts of Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP ?
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USPacti ve i ngre die nt : l e veti racetam Inacti ve i n g re die nt s : ace s ul f a me pota ssi um , a rti ficial gr a pe fla vor , cit ric ac i d , gl yc e ri n , maltit ol s ol uti on , met hyl p a ra be n , monoa m moni um gl y c yrrhizi nate , pro p yl pa r a be n , puri fied wate r , s odi um cit rate .
Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP d oes not c ontain lact o se or gl ut e n . Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP does c ontain c a rb o hydrate s . T he li quid is dye - fre e . Information on the use of levetiracetam in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures is approved for UCB , Inc . ’ s levetiracetam tablets and oral solution .
However , due to UCB , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Rx Only This Me dicati on G ui de has b een a pp r oved by t he US F ood a nd D r ug A dmi ni st rati on .
Manufactured by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Carmel , NY 10512 Manufactured for : Alembic Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
750 Route 202 , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Re v . 09 / 19 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62332 - 626 - 16 Levetiracetam Oral Solution , USP 100 mg / mL Dispense accompanying Medicaton Guide to each patient .
Rx only 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) Alembic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
