[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each spray ) Fluticasone propionate ( glucocorticoid ) 50 mcg .
Purpose Allergy symptom reliever Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • nasal congestion • runny nose • sneezing • itchy nose • itchy , watery eyes Warnings Only for use in the nose .
Do not spray into your eyes or mouth .
Do not use • in children under 4 years of age • to treat asthma • if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • medicine for HIV infection ( such as ritonavir ) • a steroid medicine for asthma , allergies or skin rash • ketoconazole pills ( medicine for fungal infection ) When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have , or come into contact with someone who has , chicken pox , measles or tuberculosis • your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge .
You may have something more than allergies , such as an infection .
• you get a constant whistling sound from your nose .
This may be a sign of damage inside your nose .
• you get an allergic reaction to this product .
Seek medical help right away .
• you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • read the Quick Start Guide for how to : • prime the bottle • use the spray • clean the spray nozzle • shake gently before each use • use this product only once a day • do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER • Week 1 - use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily • Week 2 through 6 months - use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily , as needed to treat your symptoms • After 6 months of daily use - ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product .
Children should use for the shortest amount of time necessary to achieve symptom relief .
Talk to your child ' s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year .
• an adult should supervise use • use 1 spray in each nostril once daily CHILDREN UNDER 4 YEARS OF AGE • do not use Other information • you may start to feel relief the first day and full effect after several days of regular , once - a - day use • store between 4 ° to 30 ° C ( 39 ° to 86 ° F ) • keep this label and enclosed materials .
They contain important additional information .
Inactive ingredients 0 . 02 % w / w benzalkonium chloride , dextrose , microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose sodium , 0 . 25 % w / w phenylethyl alcohol , polysorbate 80 , purified water Questions or comments ?
call toll free 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 , weekdays , 8 : 30 am – 5 : 00 pm Eastern Standard Time Principal Display Panel - Carton CARTON LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mcg per spray TOPCO NDC 76162 - 656 - 1 Allergy Relief Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 72 metered sprays 50 mcg per spray ( Glucocorticoid ) Allergy Symptom Reliever Nasal Spray 24 Hour Relief of : • Itchy , Watery Eyes • Nasal Congestion • Runny Nose • Itchy Nose • Sneezing [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Bottle BOTTLE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mcg per spray TOPCO NDC 76162 - 656 - 1 Allergy Relief Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 72 metered sprays 50 mcg per spray ( Glucocorticoid ) Allergy Symptom Reliever Nasal Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ]
