This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use USE : Apply a small amount of SURYA HENNA HAND SANITIZER in the hands palm , massaging lightly , until completely absorbed .
NO RINSE REQUIRED .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes . In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions • apply palmful to hands • rub hands together vigorously until dry • supervise children in the use of this product .
Other information • Other Information • Store below 110 º F ( 43 º C ) .
• May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Inactive ingredients : Alcohol , Aqua , Glycerin ( Vegetal ) , Carbomer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract ( Aloe Vera ) , Lawsonia Inermis Leaf Extract ( Henna ) , Chamomilla Recutita Flower Extract ( Camomila ) , Denatonium Benzoate Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 230 mL NDC : 75252 - 720 - 10 60 mL NDC : 75252 - 720 - 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
