Rx Only For Topical Use Only DESCRIPTION Econazole Nitrate Cream contains the antifungal agent , econazole nitrate 1 % in a water miscible base consisting of pegoxol 7 stearate , peglicol 5 oleate , mineral oil , benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , and purified water .
The white to off - white soft cream is for topical use only .
Chemically , econazole nitrate is 1 - [ 2 - { ( 4 - chloro - phenyl ) methoxy } - 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - imidazole mononitrate .
Its structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After topical application to the skin of normal subjects , systemic absorption of econazole nitrate is extremely low .
Although most of the applied drug remains on the skin surface , drug concentrations were found in the stratum corneum which , by far , exceeded the minimum inhibitory concentration for dermatophytes .
Inhibitory concentrations were achieved in the epidermis and as deep as the middle region of the dermis .
Less than 1 % of the applied dose was recovered in the urine and feces .
Microbiology Econazole nitrate has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Epidermophyton floccosum Candida albicans Microsporum audouini Malassezia furfur Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton tonsurans Econazole nitrate exhibits broad - spectrum antifungal activity against the following organisms in vitro , but the clinical significance of these data is unknown .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Trichophyton verrucosum Candida guillermondii Candida parapsilosis Candida tropicalis INDICATIONS AND USAGE Econazole Nitrate Cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , Microsporum gypseum , and Epidermophyton floccosum , in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis , and in the treatment of tinea versicolor CONTRAINDICATIONS Econazole Nitrate Cream is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS Econazole Nitrate Cream is not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Avoid introduction of Econazole Nitrate Cream into the eyes .
Carcinogenicity Studies Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Oral administration of econazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
Intravaginal administration in humans has not shown prolonged gestation or other adverse reproductive effects attributable to econazole nitrate therapy .
Fertility ( Reproduction ) Oral administration of econazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
Intravaginal administration in humans has not shown prolonged gestation or other adverse reproductive effects attributable to econazole nitrate therapy .
Pregnancy Econazole nitrate has not been shown to be teratogenic when administered orally to mice , rabbits or rats .
Fetotoxic or embryotoxic effects were observed in Segment I oral studies with rats receiving 10 to 40 time the human dermal dose .
Similar effects were observed in Segment II or Segment III studies with mice , rabbits and / or rats receiving oral doses 80 or 40 time the human dermal dose .
Econazole nitrate should be used in the first trimester of pregnancy only when the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
The drug should be used during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy only if & nbsp ; clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether econazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Following oral administration of econazole nitrate to lactating rats , econazole and / or metabolites were excreted in milk and were found in nursing pups .
Also , in lactating rats receiving large oral doses ( 40 or 80 times the human dermal dose ) , there was a reduction in post partum viability of pups and survival to weaning ; however , at these high doses , maternal toxicity was present and may have been a contributing factor .
Caution should be exercised when econazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials , approximately 3 % of patients treated with econazole nitrate 1 % cream reported side effects thought possibly to be due to the drug , consisting mainly of burning , itching , stinging , and erythema .
One case of pruritic rash has also been reported .
To report suspected adverse reactions , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSE Overdosage of econazole nitrate in humans has not been reported to date .
In mice , rats , guinea pigs and dogs , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 462 , 668 , 272 , and > 160 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sufficient Econazole Nitrate Cream 1 % should be applied to cover affected areas once daily in patients with tinea pedis , tinea cruris , tinea corporis , and tinea versicolor , and twice daily ( morning and evening ) in patients with cutaneous candidiasis .
Early relief of symptoms is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Econazole Nitrate Cream 1 % is supplied in the following : 15 gram tubes ( NDC 52565 - 022 - 15 ) 30 gram tubes ( NDC 52565 - 022 - 30 ) 85 gram tubes ( NDC 52565 - 022 - 85 ) Store at controlled room temperature 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , New Jersey 08310 PI - 022 - 00 Rev 01 / 2019 FRAME STYLE TRANSPARENT DRESSING INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE DESCRIPTIONS Frame Style Transparent Dressing are designed to allow oxygen and moisture vapor exchange , yet provide a barrier to resist liquids and bacteria .
They are comfortable , and flex with skin for patient comfort .
INDICATIONS FOR USE Frame Style Transparent Dressing are indicated for I . V . sites , surgical incise , primary dressing on pressure ulcers ( stages I and II ) with minimal drainage , partial thickness wounds , and skin tears or abrasions .
They are also used to aid in autolylic debridement .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Frame Style Transparent Dressing are contraindicated as a primary dressing on moderately to heavily draining wounds .
Avoid repeated applications on patients with thin or fragile skin that may result in skin damage .
APPLICATION [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Prepare the wound or site according to facility protocol .
Allow all skin cleansing and preparation solutions to dry completely .
2 .
Remove dressing from package .
Peel back lining from the dressing .
3 .
position the dressing ove the wound or site and apply using light pressure .
Do not stretch the dressing while applying .
4 .
Gently remove the frame , smoothing the dressing down as the frame is being pulled away .
5 .
Smooth the dressing from the center toward the edges to aid adhesion .
6 .
Date and initial the dressing in the spaces provided .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] REMOVAL 1 .
Change dressing according to standard wound care practices and facility protocol .
2 .
Supporting the skin , gently lift corner and slowly peel the dressing from the skin in the direction of the hair growth .
Peel the dressing back , parallel to the skin , rather than pulling it up from the skin .
3 .
Dispose of the dressing according to facility protocol .
PRECAUTIONS FOR USE 1 .
To assure good adhesion , the skin should be clean , dry and free from skin oils , soaps , detergents and lotions .
Ensure that no wet skin preparationsolution or soap residues are trapped under the dressing .
2 .
The dressing should be allowed a minimum overlap of 1 inch ( 3 cm ) from the margin of the wound onto the surrounding healthy skin .
3 .
Removed excess hair from around the site , as required , by clipping not shaving .
Do not reuse .
STORAGE : Avoid storage in direct sunlight / flourescent lighting and keep area cool , dry , and well - ventilated .
Contents STERILE in unopened , undamaged inner package .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
Zolpak ( Econazole Nitrate Cream 1 % and Frame Style Transparent Dressing ) Packaged in the USA by : PureTek Corporation San Fernando , CA 91340 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 Rev . 38094 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
