Active Ingredients Saussurea Involucrata help to improve the appearance of firmness and elasticity on the skin ' s surface .
Bee Venom combined with high - grade Peptides helps to visibly reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles on the skin ' s surface .
Sodium Hyaluronate known for its restorative and anti - aging abilities , revitalizes and moisturizes skin ’ s outer surface layers to improve appearance of fine lines and wrinkles .
Purpose Skin regeneration and Wrinkle relief Use The skin ' s surface appears firmer and smoother with a more youthful look .
Remodels the facial contours and reduces the thickness of subcutaneous fatty tissue helping to reduce the " double chin effect " providing you with a youthful complexion .
Reinforces skin elasticity to provide plump and radiant complexion .
Directions [ Preparation stage ] After cleansing , use toner to clean up the skin .
It must be used only after cleansing is complete , and especially pay attention to the cleanliness of your hands .
If you use it after exfoliation , you can get more satisfactory results , and it is more effective if you give a simple massage before use .
[ Application stage ] 1 .
Prepare Core peptide ( 1 st ) , Stable Chitin ( 2 nd ) and a syringe .
2 .
Core Peptide ( 1 st ) only opens the plastic cap .
3 .
A syringe inlet is injected into the center of the hole at the top of the Core Peptide ( 1 st ) to suction .
( Total 3 ml based on syringe ) .
After the syringe is removed , the inlet is automatically sealed to prevent outside air from entering .
4 .
Open the Stable Chitin ( 2 nd ) after referring to the precautions and inject the Core Peptide ( 1 st ) .
Due to the nature of the Stable Chitin component , it is not soluble in ampoule other than Core Peptide .
( Not compatible ) 5 .
Close the vial opening of the Stable Chitin ( 2 nd ) with an elastomer tube and shake to dissolve the Stable Chitin .
Check with eyes and if the Stable Chitin component does not appear in the form of a thread ( slightly thick ) , apply it to the skin .
When Using Although it can be used immediately after melting , it is recommended to use after 12 hours after mixing the product and closing it with an elastomer tube after mixing the product to increase the activity and maximize the efficacy due to the nature of the formulation .
After blending , only the elastomer tube is closed and stored at room temperature fresh out of direct sunlight .
( Up to 21 days ) Ingredients Water , Butylene Glycol , Propanediol , Glycereth - 26 , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , Copper Tripeptide - 1 , Sodium Lactate , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Chlorphenesin , Ethylhexylglycerin , Lactic Acid , Fragrance , Dipeptide Diaminobutyroyl Benzylamide Diacetate , CI 19140 Warnings For external use only .
Keep away from heat .
Stop use Stop use and ask a physician if skin irritation and redness occurs more that 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children , if swallowed , get medical help right away .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
