DESCRIPTION DEPO - Testosterone Injection , for intramuscular injection , contains testosterone cypionate which is the oil - soluble 17 ( beta ) - cyclopentylpropionate ester of the androgenic hormone testosterone .
Testosterone cypionate is a white or creamy white crystalline powder , odorless or nearly so and stable in air .
It is insoluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , chloroform , dioxane , ether , and soluble in vegetable oils .
The chemical name for testosterone cypionate is androst - 4 - en - 3 - one , 17 - ( 3 - cyclopentyl - 1 - oxopropoxy ) - , ( 17β ) - .
Its molecular formula is C27H40O3 , and the molecular weight 412 . 61 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] DEPO - Testosterone Injection is available in two strengths , 100 mg / mL and 200 mg / mL testosterone cypionate .
Each mL of the 100 mg / mL solution contains : Testosterone cypionate ................................................................................... 100 mg Benzyl benzoate .............................................................................................. 0 . 1 mL Cottonseed oil ................................................................................................
736 mg Benzyl alcohol ( as preservative ) ..................................................................... 9 . 45 mg Each mL of the 200 mg / mL solution contains : Testosterone cypionate ..................................................................................
200 mg Benzyl benzoate .............................................................................................. 0 . 2 mL Cottonseed oil ................................................................................................
560 mg Benzyl alcohol ( as preservative ) ..................................................................... 9 . 45 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Endogenous androgens are responsible for normal growth and development of the male sex organs and for maintenance of secondary sex characteristics .
These effects include growth and maturation of the prostate , seminal vesicles , penis , and scrotum ; development of male hair distribution , such as beard , pubic , chest , and axillary hair ; laryngeal enlargement , vocal cord thickening , and alterations in body musculature and fat distribution .
Drugs in this class also cause retention of nitrogen , sodium , potassium , and phosphorous , and decreased urinary excretion of calcium .
Androgens have been reported to increase protein anabolism and decrease protein catabolism .
Nitrogen balance is improved only when there is sufficient intake of calories and protein .
Androgens are responsible for the growth spurt of adolescence and for eventual termination of linear growth , brought about by fusion of the epiphyseal growth centers .
In children , exogenous androgens accelerate linear growth rates , but may cause disproportionate advancement in bone maturation .
Use over long periods may result in fusion of the epiphyseal growth centers and termination of the growth process .
Androgens have been reported to stimulate production of red blood cells by enhancing production of erythropoietic stimulation factor .
During exogenous administration of androgens , endogenous testosterone release is inhibited through feedback inhibition of pituitary luteinizing hormone ( LH ) .
At large doses of exogenous androgens , spermatogenesis may also be suppressed through feedback inhibition of pituitary follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) .
There is a lack of substantial evidence that androgens are effective in fractures , surgery , convalescence , and functional uterine bleeding .
Pharmacokinetics Testosterone esters are less polar than free testosterone .
Testosterone esters in oil injected intramuscularly are absorbed slowly from the lipid phase ; thus , testosterone cypionate can be given at intervals of two to four weeks .
Testosterone in plasma is 98 percent bound to a specific testosterone - estradiol binding globulin , and about 2 percent is free .
Generally , the amount of this sex - hormone binding globulin in the plasma will determine the distribution of testosterone between free and bound forms , and the free testosterone concentration will determine its half - life .
About 90 percent of a dose of testosterone is excreted in the urine as glucuronic and sulfuric acid conjugates of testosterone and its metabolites ; about 6 percent of a dose is excreted in the feces , mostly in the unconjugated form .
Inactivation of testosterone occurs primarily in the liver .
Testosterone is metabolized to various 17 - keto steroids through two different pathways .
The half - life of testosterone cypionate when injected intramuscularly is approximately eight days .
In many tissues the activity of testosterone appears to depend on reduction to dihydrotestosterone , which binds to cytosol receptor proteins .
The steroid - receptor complex is transported to the nucleus where it initiates transcription events and cellular changes related to androgen action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE DEPO - Testosterone Injection is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone .
1 .
Primary hypogonadism ( congenital or acquired ) - testicular failure due to cryptorchidism , bilateral torsion , orchitis , vanishing testis syndrome ; or orchidectomy .
2 .
Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( congenital or acquired ) - idiopathic gonadotropin or LHRH deficiency , or pituitary - hypothalamic injury from tumors , trauma , or radiation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to the drug • Males with carcinoma of the breast • Males with known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland • Women who are or who may become pregnant • Patients with serious cardiac , hepatic or renal disease WARNINGS Hypercalcemia may occur in immobilized patients .
If this occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Prolonged use of high doses of androgens ( principally the 17 - α alkyl - androgens ) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas , hepatocellular carcinoma , and peliosis hepatis — all potentially life - threatening complications .
Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking .
Edema , with or without congestive heart failure , may be a serious complication in patients with pre - existing cardiac , renal or hepatic disease .
Gynecomastia may develop and occasionally persists in patients being treated for hypogonadism .
This product contains benzyl alcohol .
Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
Androgen therapy should be used cautiously in healthy males with delayed puberty .
The effect on bone maturation should be monitored by assessing bone age of the wrist and hand every 6 months .
In children , androgen treatment may accelerate bone maturation without producing compensatory gain in linear growth .
This adverse effect may result in compromised adult stature .
The younger the child the greater the risk of compromising final mature height .
This drug has not been shown to be safe and effective for the enhancement of athletic performance .
Because of the potential risk of serious adverse health effects , this drug should not be used for such purpose .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy may develop acute urethral obstruction .
Priapism or excessive sexual stimulation may develop .
Oligospermia may occur after prolonged administration or excessive dosage .
If any of these effects appear , the androgen should be stopped and if restarted , a lower dosage should be utilized .
Testosterone cypionate should not be used interchangeably with testosterone propionate because of differences in duration of action .
Testosterone cypionate is not for intravenous use .
Information for patients Patients should be instructed to report any of the following : nausea , vomiting , changes in skin color , ankle swelling , too frequent or persistent erections of the penis .
Laboratory tests Hemoglobin and hematocrit levels ( to detect polycythemia ) should be checked periodically in patients receiving long - term androgen administration .
Serum cholesterol may increase during androgen therapy .
Drug interactions Androgens may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants .
Dosage of the anticoagulant may require reduction in order to maintain satisfactory therapeutic hypoprothrombinemia .
Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone .
In diabetic patients , the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and , therefore , insulin requirements .
Drug / Laboratory test Interferences Androgens may decrease levels of thyroxine - binding globulin , resulting in decreased total T4 serum levels and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4 .
Free thyroid hormone levels remain unchanged , however , and there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction .
Carcinogenesis Animal data Testosterone has been tested by subcutaneous injection and implantation in mice and rats .
The implant induced cervical - uterine tumors in mice , which metastasized in some cases .
There is suggestive evidence that injection of testosterone into some strains of female mice increases their susceptibility to hepatoma .
Testosterone is also known to increase the number of tumors and decrease the degree of differentiation of chemically induced carcinomas of the liver in rats .
Human data There are rare reports of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients receiving long - term therapy with androgens in high doses .
Withdrawal of the drugs did not lead to regression of the tumors in all cases .
Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X . ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Nursing mothers DEPO - Testosterone is not recommended for use in nursing mothers .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions in the male have occurred with some androgens : Endocrine and urogenital : Gynecomastia and excessive frequency and duration of penile erections .
Oligospermia may occur at high dosages .
Skin and appendages : Hirsutism , male pattern of baldness , seborrhea , and acne .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances : Retention of sodium , chloride , water , potassium , calcium , and inorganic phosphates .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , cholestatic jaundice , alterations in liver function tests , rarely hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hematologic : Suppression of clotting factors II , V , VII , and X , bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy , and polycythemia .
Nervous system : Increased or decreased libido , headache , anxiety , depression , and generalized paresthesia .
Allergic : Hypersensitivity , including skin manifestations and anaphylactoid reactions .
Miscellaneous : Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Class Testosterone is a controlled substance under the Anabolic Steroids Control Act , and DEPO - Testosterone Injection has been assigned to Schedule III .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of acute overdosage with the androgens .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPO - Testosterone Injection is for intramuscular use only .
It should not be given intravenously .
Intramuscular injections should be given deep in the gluteal muscle .
The suggested dosage for DEPO - Testosterone Injection varies depending on the age , sex , and diagnosis of the individual patient .
Dosage is adjusted according to the patient ' s response and the appearance of adverse reactions .
Various dosage regimens have been used to induce pubertal changes in hypogonadal males ; some experts have advocated lower dosages initially , gradually increasing the dose as puberty progresses , with or without a decrease to maintenance levels .
Other experts emphasize that higher dosages are needed to induce pubertal changes and lower dosages can be used for maintenance after puberty .
The chronological and skeletal ages must be taken into consideration , both in determining the initial dose and in adjusting the dose .
For replacement in the hypogonadal male , 50 – 400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Warming and shaking the vial should redissolve any crystals that may have formed during storage at temperatures lower than recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED DEPO - Testosterone Injection is available as follows : 200 mg / mL 1 mL vials NDC 54868 - 0216 - 1 10 mL vials NDC 54868 - 0216 - 0 Vials should be stored at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from light .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0245 - 2 . 0 September 2006 Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg / mL Vial Carton Depo ® - Testosterone testosterone cypionate injection , USP CIII For intramuscular One 10 mL Vial Multiple - Dose Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
