Directions for Use of Positive Skin Test Control - Histamine HISTATROL ® Histamine Base 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 2 . 75 mg / mL ) in Glycerin 50 % ( v / v ) For Percutaneous Testing Histamine Base 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 0 . 275 mg / mL ) For Intracutaneous ( Intradermal ) Testing Port Washington , New York 11050 U . S . Government License No . 1256 DESCRIPTION The chemical formula for Histamine Phosphate is C5H9N3 · 2H3 PO4 ; its molecular weight is 307 . 14 .
For prick , puncture or scratch testing , the product is a sterile solution that contains 1 mg / mL histamine base ( 2 . 75 mg / mL Histamine Phosphate ) in Water for Injection ; it also contains Glycerin 50 % ( v / v ) as viscosity agent and Phenol 0 . 4 % as preservative .
For intracutaneous ( intradermal ) skin testing , the product is a sterile solution that contains 0 . 1 mg / mL histamine base ( 0 . 275 mg / mL Histamine Phosphate ) in Water for Injection and Phenol 0 . 4 % as preservative .
The product should be stored refrigerated and protected from light .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Histamine acts as a potent vasodilator when released from mast cells during an allergic reaction .
It is largely responsible for the immediate skin test reaction of a sensitive patient when challenged with an offending allergen .
The effect of added Glycerin ( 50 % v / v ) to 1 mg / mL histamine base was studied by puncture testing using a bifurcated needle in twelve volunteer subjects .
The mean sum of cross - diameters of the wheals was 13 . 25 mm ( range 10 - 15 mm ) for the non - glycerinated , and 12 . 54 mm ( range 9 - 15 mm ) for the glycerinated formulation .
Sum of cross - diameters of erythema was 52 . 88 mm ( range 23 - 92 mm ) for the non - glycerinated , and 54 . 42 mm ( range 19 - 87 mm ) for the glycerinated formulation .
These differences are not statistically significant .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use as a positive control in evaluation of allergenic ( immediate hypersensitivity or " Type I " ) skin testing .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Histamine should not be injected into individuals with hypotension , severe hypertension , severe cardiac , pulmonary , or renal disease .
Not to be used for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma or to test the ability of the gastric mucosa to secrete hydrochloric acid .
WARNINGS Care must be taken in intracutaneous testing to avoid injection into a venule or capillary .
Pull back gently on the syringe plunger and note if blood is drawn .
If blood is drawn , withdraw needle and inject into another skin site .
Small doses by any route of administration may precipitate asthma in patients with bronchial hyperactivity .
This product is not intended for inhalation , or subcutaneous injection .
The utmost caution is advised in using histamine in such patients and in those with a history of bronchial asthma .
PRECAUTIONS General A separate sterile needle or other percutaneous testing device should be used for each individual patient to prevent transmission of hepatitis and other infectious agents from one person to another .
Epinephrine Injection ( 1 : 1 , 000 ) and injectable antihistamines should be available for immediate use in the event the patient exhibits a severe response .
A tourniquet can be applied above the test site to slow absorption if a severe response occurs .
Drug Interactions Drugs can interfere with the performance of skin tests in general , and specifically with histamine1 .
Antihistamines : Response to histamine is suppressed by antihistamines .
The length of suppression varies , and is dependent on individual patient , type of antihistamine and length of time the patient has been on antihistamines .
The duration of this suppression may be as little as 24 hours ( chlorpheniramine ) , and can be as long as 40 days ( astemizole ) .
Tricyclic Antidepressants : These exert a potent and sustained decrease of skin reactivity to histamine , which may last for a few weeks .
Beta2 Agonists : Oral terbutaline and parenteral ephedrine , in general , have been shown to decrease allergen induced wheal .
Theoretically , this may also reduce whealing capacity to histamine .
Dopamine : Intravenous infusion of dopamine has been shown to inhibit skin test responses to histamine .
Beta Blocking Agents : Propranolol can significantly increase skin test reactivity , including histamine .
Other Drugs : Short acting steroids , inhaled beta agonists , theophylline and cromolyn do not seem to affect skin test response .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been conducted with Histamine .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if Histamine administered percutaneously or intracutaneously appears in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when histamine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pregnancy Category C It is not known whether Histamine can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy or whether it can affect reproduction capacity .
Histamine should be given during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies during pregnancy .
However , based on histamine ' s known ability to contract uterine muscle , exposure or repeated doses should be avoided .
HISTATROL ® should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus or mother .
Pediatric Use Histamine solutions for percutaneous testing have been given safely in infants and young children . 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 Neonates and infants have lower skin test reactivity to histamines as well as common allergens . 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 About 20 % of infants less than six months of age have been observed to have a negative reaction to histamine hydrochloride ( 1 mg / mL of salt ) . 4 Skin test reactivity gradually increases to age six and plateaus to age sixty . 2 , 3 Therefore , small skin test reactions should be anticipated in children under age six .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Local : Reactions such as wheal , erythema and localized pruritus are to be expected , but if very large ( i . e . greater than 4 + as described dosage and administration ) may be the first manifestation of a systemic reaction .
Systemic : Following the injection of large doses of histamine , systemic reactions may include flushing , dizziness , headache , bronchial constriction , urticaria , asthma , marked hypertension or hypotension , abdominal cramps , vomiting , metallic taste , and local or generalized allergic manifestations ( see also OVERDOSAGE ) .
OVERDOSAGE A large subcutaneous dose of Histamine Phosphate may cause severe occipital headache , blurred vision , anginal pain , a rapid drop in blood pressure , and cyanosis of the face .
Overdosage may cause severe symptoms including vasomotor collapse , shock , and even death .
Epinephrine Injection 0 . 01 mg / kg to a maximum of 1 . 0 mg given subcutaneously or intramuscularly should be used in case of emergency due to severe reactions ( see Precautions ) .
An antihistamine preparation may be given intramuscularly to ameliorate systemic reaction to overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
For Prick , Puncture and Scratch Testing Histamine base 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 2 . 75 mg / mL ) should be used to give a reaction .
( Refer to Interpretation Section . )
Prick , Puncture or Scratch Test Techniques • The skin in the test area should be cleansed with alcohol and air dried .
• The histamine control skin test solution should be placed at the same site with the other skin test antigens , either on the patient ' s back or on the volar surface of the forearm .
The patient should be placed in a comfortable position before the testing is begun .
• For the prick test , a sharp needle is used to puncture the skin , but not to draw blood .
If the scratch test is used , carefully break or scratch the skin with a sterile scarifier .
Do not draw blood .
Each scratch should be about 2 mm - 4 mm in length .
• A small drop of the histamine base 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 2 . 75 mg / mL ) is placed on the abraded skin site no closer than 4 or 5 cm from an adjacent test site .
Some physicians prefer to place the solution on the test area and then prick through the drop with a sharp needle .
• Use a separate sterile scarifier or needle for each patient .
• The test should be read at 15 minutes ; if a large wheal reaction occurs before that time the test site should be wiped free of histamine .
Interpretation The patient ' s response is based on the size of : erythema ( degree of redness ) and / or size of wheal ( smooth , slightly elevated area ) which appear after 10 minutes .
For percutaneous testing , different devices and / or techniques influence the size of the reaction .
Therefore , it is important to refer to the device manufacturer ' s or distributor ' s instructions when grading reactions .
For prick , puncture and scratch testing , histamine base 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 2 . 75 mg / mL ) should be used to give a positive reaction .
In a large population , the NHANES II survey reports a mean diameter ( average of length and width ) wheal of 4 . 4 mm ± 1 . 65 mm ( ± standard deviation ) and a mean erythema of 18 . 4 mm ± 8 . 55 mm ( ± standard deviation ) when using 25 gauge B - D needle by prick puncture ( Pepys ) technique . 7 All positive reactions should be interpreted against an appropriate negative control .
For Intradermal Skin Testing Histamine base 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 0 . 275 mg / mL ) or 0 . 01 mg / mL should be used to give a reaction .
( Refer to Interpretation Section . )
Intracutaneously ( Intradermal ) Test Techniques • The skin should be cleansed with alcohol and air dried .
• A sterile one milliliter tuberculin syringe with 26 or 27 gauge needle should be used .
A single sterile syringe should be used for each solution to assure sterility .
Only the histamine base 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate , 0 . 275 mg / mL ) or greater dilution solution should be used .
• The histamine base skin test solution should be injected at the same site with the other skin test allergens , either on the patient ' s back or on the arm .
The patient should be placed in a comfortable position before the testing is begun .
• The skin is held tense and the needle is inserted almost parallel to the skin , bevel side up , far enough to cover the beveled portion .
Slowly inject 0 . 01 mL or 0 . 02 mL , making a small bleb approximately 3 mm - 5 mm in diameter .
• The test should be read in 15 minutes .
Interpretation The patient ' s response is based on the size of : erythema ( degree of redness ) and / or size of wheal ( smooth , slightly elevated area ) which appear after 10 minutes .
For intradermal skin testing , histamine base 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 0 . 275 mg / mL ) or 0 . 01 mg / mL should be used to give a positive reaction .
The available 0 . 1 mg / mL concentration must be diluted ten - fold to achieve this dose .
All positive reactions should be interpreted against an appropriate negative control .
In two successive years of testing , the Committee on Standardization of the American College of Allergy reported positive reactions at histamine base doses of 0 . 01 mg / mL and higher .
Mean sum of wheal diameters was approximately 14 mm ± 4 . 8 mm and sum of erythema diameter was approximately 52 mm ± 21 . 6 mm following 0 . 01 mL intradermal doses of 0 . 01 mg / mL histamine base .
When 0 . 01 mL of 0 . 1 mg / mL histamine base was injected , the sum of cross - diameters of wheal ranged from 15 - 20 mm and the sum of cross - diameters of erythema ranged from 60 - 80 mm . 8 HOW SUPPLIED Multidose vials containing 5 mL histamine base , 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 2 . 75 mg / mL ) in Glycerin 50 % ( v / v ) for prick , puncture , or scratch testing .
Multidose vials containing 5 mL histamine base , 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Histamine Phosphate 0 . 275 mg / mL ) in aqueous solution for intradermal testing .
Store at 2 ° - 8 ° C . REFERENCES • Bousquet , J . : In vivo methods for the study of allergy : skin test , techniques , and interpretation .
In Allergy Principles and Practice , 3 rd Edition , Middleton , et al eds . , C . V . Mosby , St . Louis , MO , 1988 .
• Skassa - Brociek , W . , et al : Skin test reactivity to histamine from infancy to old age .
J . Allergy Clin .
Immunol .
80 : 711 , 1987 .
• Menardo , J . L . , et al : Skin test reactivity in infancy .
J . Allergy Clin .
Immunol .
75 : 646 , 1985 .
• Van Asperen , P . P . , et al : Skin test reactivity and clinical allergen sensitivity in infancy .
J . Allergy Clin .
Immunol .
73 : 381 , 1984 .
• Matheson , A . , et al : Reactivity of the skin of the newborn infant .
Pediatrics 10 : 181 , 1952 .
• Stevenson , D . D . , et al : Development of IgE in newborn human infants .
J . Allergy48 : 61 , 1971 .
• National Center for Health Statistics , P . J . Gergen and P . C . Turkeltaub : Percutaneous immediate hypersensitivity to eight allergens , United States , 1976 - 80 .
Vital and Health Statistics .
Series 11 , No . 235 .
DHHS Pub .
No .
( PHS ) 86 - 1685 .
Public Health Service .
Washington .
U . S . Government Printing Office , July 1986 .
• Committee on Standardization .
Report of the Committee on Standardization : 1 .
A method of evaluating skin test response .
Ann .
Allergy29 : 30 - 34 , 1971 .
Revision : October 2008 © Alk - Abello , Inc . , 2008 No . 107 K Distributed in Canada by : ALK - Abelló Pharmaceuticals , Inc . # 35 - 151 Brunel Road Mississauga , Ontario Canada L4Z 2H6 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL POSITIVE SKIN TEST CONTROL - HISTAMINE 5 mL sterile multiple dose vial FOR INTRADERMAL TESTING ONLY HISTATROL ® HISTAMINE BASE 0 . 1 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL POSITIVE SKIN TEST CONTROL - HISTAMINE 5 mL sterile multiple dose vial FOR PERCUTANEOUS TESTING ONLY HISTATROL ® HISTAMINE BASE 1 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
