Fexofenadine HCl USP 180 mg anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , polyethylene glycol , pregalatinized starch ( maize ) , red iron oxide , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , yellow iron oxide • adults & children 12 years of age and over : take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use • adults 65 years of age and older : ask a doctor • consumers with kidney disease : ask a doctor temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children Overdose warning : Taking more than directed can cause serious health problems .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children Overdose Warning : Taking more than directed can cause serious health problems .
Incase of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Antihistamine • store at room temperature between 20 ºC - 25 ºC ( 68 ºF - 77 ºF ) • protect from excessive moisture • each tablet contains : sodium 8 . 2 mg • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 Tamper Evident : Do not use if package is opened or if blister unite is torn broken or shows any signs of tampering .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
