Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY — NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is a topical cream .
Each gram contains : 50 mg of doxepin hydrochloride ( equivalent to 44 . 3 mg of doxepin ) .
Doxepin hydrochloride , USP is one of a class of agents known as dibenzoxepin tricyclic antidepressant compounds .
It is an isomeric mixture of N , N - dimethyldibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - Δ11 ( 6 H ) , γ - propylamine hydrochloride .
Doxepin hydrochloride has a molecular formula of C19H21NO • HCl and a molecular weight of 316 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % also contains sorbitol , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , petrolatum , benzyl alcohol , titanium dioxide and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although doxepin HCl does have H1 and H2 histamine receptor blocking actions , the exact mechanism by which doxepin exerts its antipruritic effect is unknown .
Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % can produce drowsiness which may reduce awareness , including awareness of pruritic symptoms .
In 19 pruritic eczema patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , plasma doxepin concentrations ranged from nondetectable to 47 ng / mL from percutaneous absorption .
Plasma levels from topical application of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % can result in CNS and other systemic side effects .
Once absorbed into the systemic circulation , doxepin undergoes hepatic metabolism that results in conversion to pharmacologically - active desmethyldoxepin .
Further glucuronidation results in urinary excretion of the parent drug and its metabolites .
Desmethyldoxepin has a half - life that ranges from 28 to 52 hours and is not affected by multiple dosing .
Plasma levels of both doxepin and desmethyldoxepin are highly variable and are poorly correlated with dosage .
Wide distribution occurs in body tissues including lungs , heart , brain , and liver .
Renal disease , genetic factors , age , and other medications affect the metabolism and subsequent elimination of doxepin .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is indicated for the short - term ( up to 8 days ) management of moderate pruritus in adult patients with atopic dermatitis or lichen simplex chronicus .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Because doxepin HCl has an anticholinergic effect and because significant plasma levels of doxepin are detectable after topical Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % application , the use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is contraindicated in patients with untreated narrow angle glaucoma or a tendency to urinary retention .
Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is contraindicated in individuals who have shown previous sensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Drowsiness occurs in over 20 % of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , especially in patients receiving treatment to greater than 10 % of their body surface area .
Patients should be warned about the possibility of sedation and cautioned against driving a motor vehicle or operating hazardous machinery while being treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
The sedating effects of alcoholic beverages , antihistamines , and other CNS depressants may be potentiated when Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is used .
If excessive drowsiness occurs it may be necessary to reduce the frequency of applications , the amount of cream applied , and / or the percentage of body surface area treated , or discontinue the drug .
However , the efficacy with reduced frequency of applications has not been established .
Keep this product away from the eyes .
PRECAUTIONS General Drowsiness : Since drowsiness may occur with the use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while using this drug .
Patients should also be cautioned that their response to alcohol may be potentiated .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and oversedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be observed closely for confusion and oversedation when started on Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Geriatric Use . )
Use under occlusion : Occlusive dressings may increase the absorption of most topical drugs ; therefore , occlusive dressings should not be utilized with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
Contact sensitization : Use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % can cause Type IV hypersensitivity reactions ( contact sensitization ) to doxepin .
Drug Interactions Studies have not been performed examining drug interactions with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
However , since plasma levels of doxepin following topical application of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % can reach levels obtained with oral doxepin HCl therapy , the following drug interactions are possible following topical Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % application : Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 : The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population ( about 7 - 10 % of Caucasians are so - called “ poor metabolizers ” ) ; reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian , African and other populations are not yet available .
Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) when given usual doses .
Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6 , the increase in plasma concentration may be small , or quite large ( 8 - fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA ) .
In addition , certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers .
An individual who is stable on a given dosage regimen of a TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy .
The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme ( quinidine ; cimetidine ) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 ( many other antidepressants , phenothiazines , and the Type 1 C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide ) .
While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , and paroxetine , inhibit P450 2D6 , they may vary in the extent of inhibition .
The extent to which SSRI - TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved .
Nevertheless , caution is indicated in the co - administration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs .
Of particular importance , sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine , given the long half - life of the parent and active metabolite ( at least 5 weeks may be necessary ) .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co - administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6 .
MAO Inhibitors : Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors .
Therefore , MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least two weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
The exact length of time may vary and is dependent upon the particular MAO inhibitor being used , the length of time it has been administered , and the dosage involved .
Cimetidine : Serious anticholinergic symptoms ( i . e . , severe dry mouth , urinary retention and blurred vision ) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressants when cimetidine therapy is initiated .
Additionally , higher than expected tricyclic antidepressant levels have been observed when they are begun in patients already taking cimetidine .
Alcohol : Alcohol ingestion may exacerbate the potential sedative effects of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
This is especially important in patients who may use alcohol excessively .
Tolazamide : A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide ( 1 gm / day ) 11 days after the addition of oral doxepin ( 75 mg / day ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility studies have not been conducted with doxepin hydrochloride .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies have been performed in which doxepin was orally administered to rats and rabbits at doses up to 0 . 6 and 1 . 2 times , respectively , the estimated exposure to doxepin that results from use of 16 grams of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % per day ( four applications of four grams of cream per day ; dose multiples reflect comparisons made following normalization of the data on the basis of body surface area estimates ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to rat or rabbit fetuses due to doxepin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Doxepin is excreted in human milk after oral administration .
It is possible that doxepin may also be excreted in human milk following topical application of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
One case has been reported of apnea and drowsiness in a nursing infant whose mother was taking an oral dosage form of doxepin HCl .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from doxepin , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % in pediatric patients is not recommended .
Safe conditions for use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % in children have not been established .
One case has been reported of a 2 . 5 - year - old child who developed somnolence , grand mal seizure , respiratory depression , ECG abnormalities , and coma after treatment with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
A total of 27 grams had been applied over three days for eczema .
He was treated with supportive care , activated charcoal , and systemic alkalization and recovered .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of doxepin has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and oversedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be observed closely for confusion and oversedation when started on Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
( See WARNINGS . )
An 80 - year - old male nursing home patient developed probable systemic anticholinergic toxicity which included urinary retention and delirium after Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % had been applied to his arms , legs and back three times daily for two days .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Controlled Clinical Trials Systemic Adverse Effects : In controlled clinical trials of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , the most common systemic adverse event reported was drowsiness .
Drowsiness occurred in 71 of 330 ( 22 % ) of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % compared to 7 of 334 ( 2 % ) of patients treated with vehicle cream .
Drowsiness resulted in the premature discontinuation of the drug in approximately 5 % of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % in controlled clinical trials .
Local Site Adverse Effects : In controlled clinical trials of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , the most common local site adverse event reported was burning and / or stinging at the site of application .
These occurred in 76 of 330 ( 23 % ) of patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % compared to 54 of 334 ( 16 % ) of patients treated with vehicle cream .
Most of these reactions were categorized as “ mild ” ; however , approximately 25 % of patients who reported burning and / or stinging reported the reaction as “ severe ” .
Four patients treated with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % withdrew from the study because of the burning and / or stinging .
The table below presents the adverse events reported at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in either Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % or vehicle cream treatment groups during the trials : Adverse Event Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % N = 330 Vehicle N = 334 Burning / Stinging 76 ( 23 . 0 % ) 54 ( 16 . 2 % ) Drowsiness 71 ( 21 . 5 % ) 7 ( 2 . 1 % ) Dry Mouth1 32 ( 9 . 7 % ) 4 ( 1 . 2 % ) Pruritus2 13 ( 3 . 9 % ) 20 ( 6 . 0 % ) Fatigue / Tiredness 10 ( 3 . 0 % ) 5 ( 1 . 5 % ) Exacerbated Eczema 10 ( 3 . 0 % ) 8 ( 2 . 4 % ) Other Application Site Reaction3 10 ( 3 . 0 % ) 16 ( 4 . 8 % ) Dizziness4 7 ( 2 . 1 % ) 3 ( 0 . 9 % ) Mental / Emotional Changes 6 ( 1 . 8 % ) 1 ( 0 . 3 % ) Taste Perversion5 5 ( 1 . 5 % ) 1 ( 0 . 3 % ) Edema 4 ( 1 . 2 % ) 1 ( 0 . 3 % ) Headache 3 ( 0 . 9 % ) 14 ( 4 . 2 % ) 1 Includes reports of “ dry lips ” , “ dry throat ” , and “ thirst ” 2 Includes reports of “ pruritus exacerbated ” 3 Includes report of “ increased irritation at application site ” 4 Includes reports of “ lightheadedness ” and “ dizziness / vertigo ” 5 Includes reports of “ bitter taste ” and “ metallic taste in mouth ” Adverse events occurring in 0 . 5 % to < 1 . 0 % of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % treated patients in the controlled clinical trials included : nervousness / anxiety , tongue numbness , fever , and nausea .
Post - Marketing Experience Twenty - six cases of allergic contact dermatitis have been reported in patients using Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % , twenty of which were documented by positive patch test to doxepin 5 % cream .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
As the management is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic antidepressant overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
Manifestations Should overdosage with topical application of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % occur , the signs and symptoms may include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression , including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic antidepressant toxicity .
Other signs of overdose may include : confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia , or any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
General Recommendations General : Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of six hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is strongly advised .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is recommended .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Cardiovascular : A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mm Hg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricyclic antidepressant poisoning .
CNS : In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Pediatric Management : The principles of management of child and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin film of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % should be applied four times each day with at least a 3 to 4 hour interval between applications .
There are no data to establish the safety and effectiveness of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % when used for greater than 8 days .
Chronic use beyond eight days may result in higher systemic levels and should be avoided .
Use of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % for longer than 8 days may result in an increased likelihood of contact sensitization .
The risk for sedation may increase with greater body surface area application of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % ( See WARNINGS section ) .
Clinical experience has shown that drowsiness is significantly more common in patients applying Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % to over 10 % of body surface area ; therefore , patients with greater than 10 % of body surface area ( see WARNINGS section ) affected should be particularly cautioned concerning possible drowsiness and other systemic adverse effects of doxepin .
If excessive drowsiness occurs , it may be necessary to do one or more of the following : reduce the body surface area treated , reduce the number of applications per day , reduce the amount of cream applied , or discontinue the drug .
Occlusive dressings may increase the absorption of most topical drugs ; therefore , occlusive dressings should not be utilized with Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % .
HOW SUPPLIED Each gram of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % contains 50 mg of doxepin hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 44 . 3 mg of doxepin .
Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % is a soft white cream available as follows : NDC 0378 - 8117 - 45 carton containing one 45 g tube Store below 27ºC ( 80ºF ) .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 140902 - 0517 Revised : 5 / 2017 DPT : DOXCR : R1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0378 - 8117 - 45 Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream 5 % For Dermatologic Use Only Rx only 45 g Cream Warnings : For External Use Only .
Not For Oral , Intravaginal or Ophthalmic Use .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Directions : Apply a thin film of Doxepin Hydrochloride Cream , 5 % four times each day with at least a 3 to 4 hour interval between applications .
If excessive drowsiness occurs it may be necessary to do one or more of the following : reduce the body surface area treated , reduce the number of applications per day , reduce the amount of cream applied , or discontinue the drug .
Refer to product insert for prescribing information and inactive ingredient listing .
Store below 27ºC ( 80ºF ) .
Warnings : For External Use Only .
Not For Oral , Intravaginal or Ophthalmic Use .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Contains : Doxepin hydrochloride , USP , 5 % ( equivalent to 4 . 4 % doxepin ) in a vehicle of sorbitol , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 1000 stearate , petrolatum , benzyl alcohol , titanium dioxide and purified water .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . DPT : 8117 : 45 : 1 C : R1 Mylan . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
