RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Contraindications , Pregnancy ( 4 ) Removed 08 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasms ( 5 . 11 ) 12 / 2021 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs , including RIVELSA , are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• RIVELSA is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIVELSA ® is indicated for use by females of reproductive age to prevent pregnancy .
RIVELSA is a combination of levonorgestrel , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Start and Take RIVELSA Begin RIVELSA on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , take the first light pink tablet that day .
For each 91 - day course , take in the following order : • Start the first light pink tablet on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , take the tablet on that day .
Then take one light pink tablet once daily for a total of 42 consecutive days .
Use a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of treatment .
• One pink tablet once daily for 21 consecutive days .
• One purple tablet once daily for 21 days .
• One yellow tablet once daily for 7 days .
Bleeding should occur during yellow tablet use .
Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day courses of RIVELSA without interruption on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which the first dose of RIVELSA was taken .
Follow the same schedule as the initial 91 - day course : light pink tablet once daily for 42 days , pink tablet once daily for 21 days , purple tablet once daily for 21 days , and yellow tablet once daily for 7 days .
If the next pill pack is not started immediately , use a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until a light pink tablet has been taken once daily for 7 consecutive days .
Switching to RIVELSA from another oral hormonal contraceptive or from another contraceptive method ( transdermal patch , vaginal ring , injection , intrauterine contraceptive , implant ) Start on the Sunday after the patient ’ s next period starts .
Use additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken 7 light pink pills ( 7 days ) .
Starting RIVELSA after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester RIVELSA may be started on the Sunday after an abortion or miscarriage .
The patient must use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light pink tablet for 7 days .
Second - trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with RIVELSA following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light pink tablet for 7 days [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Starting RIVELSA after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with RIVELSA following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light pink tablet for 7 days [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
RIVELSA is not recommended for use in lactating women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of RIVELSA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosing RIVELSA Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
The dosage of RIVELSA is one light pink tablet once daily for 42 days , one pink tablet once daily for 21 days , one purple tablet once daily for 21 days , and one yellow tablet once daily for 7 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , take RIVELSA exactly as directed , in the order directed , and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly .
2 . 3 Missed Doses Table 1 .
Instructions for Missed RIVELSA Tablets If one light pink , pink or purple tablet is missed Take the missed tablet as soon as possible .
Take the next tablet at the regular time .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
A back - up birth control method is not required if the patient has sex .
If two light pink , pink or purple tablets in a row are missed Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible , and the next two tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Use additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets .
If three or more light pink , pink or purple tablets in a row are missed Throw away the missed tablets .
Continue taking one tablet every day as indicated on the pack until the pack is finished .
Bleeding may occur during the week following the missed tablets .
Use additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets .
If any of the seven yellow tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets .
Continue taking the remaining tablets until the pack is finished .
A backup birth control method is not needed .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 - 4 hours after taking a light pink , pink or purple tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS RIVELSA ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) tablets are available as round , film - coated , biconvex tablets debossed with TV on one side , packaged in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets in the following order : • 42 light pink tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 076 on the other side • 21 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 075 on the other side • 21 purple tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 074 on the other side and • 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 077 on the other side RIVELSA consists of 91 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 42 light pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , • 21 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and • 21 purple tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and • 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS RIVELSA is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include females who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35 , diabetes mellitus with hypertension or with vascular disease or other end - organ damage , or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms , migraine headaches with aura , or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• Liver tumors , acute viral hepatitis , or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop if a thrombotic or thromboembolic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
Consider cardiovascular risk factors before initiating in all females , particularly those over 35 years .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypertension : If used in females with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop use if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 3 ) • Gallbladder disease : May cause or worsen gallbladder disease .
( 5 . 6 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor glucose in prediabetic and diabetic women taking RIVELSA .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 7 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • Uterine bleeding : May cause irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
Evaluate for other causes if symptoms persist .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions • Stop RIVELSA if an arterial or deep venous thromboembolic event occurs .
• Stop RIVELSA if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• Discontinue RIVELSA during prolonged immobilization .
If feasible , stop RIVELSA at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
• Start RIVELSA no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in females who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• Before starting RIVELSA evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy .
RIVELSA is contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous / thromboembolic diseases [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Arterial Events COCs increase the risk of cardiovascular events and cerebrovascular events , such as myocardial infarction and stroke .
The risk is greater among older women ( > 35 years of age ) , smokers , and females with hypertension , dyslipidemia , diabetes , or obesity .
RIVELSA is contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
Venous Events Use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolic events ( VTEs ) , such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism .
Risk factors for VTEs include smoking , obesity , and family history of VTE , in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of COCs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of COCs is well - established , the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy , and especially during the postpartum period ( see Figure 1 ) .
The rate of VTE in females using COCs has been estimated to be 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of four weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives , for females who use oral contraceptives , and for females in the postpartum period .
To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective : If 10 , 000 females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives are followed for one year , between 1 and 5 of these females will develop a VTE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Use of RIVELSA provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly oral contraceptives containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 and 13 weeks of exposure to progestin and estrogen , respectively , per year ) .
In the clinical trial , three cases of deep vein thrombosis were reported .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 2 Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes RIVELSA is contraindicated in females with acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute liver test abnormalities may necessitate the discontinuation of RIVELSA until liver tests return to normal and RIVELSA causation has been excluded .
Discontinue RIVELSA if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors RIVELSA is contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
COCs increase the risk of hepatic adenomas .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death from abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
The attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Hypertension RIVELSA is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For all females , including those with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop RIVELSA if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The effect of COCs on blood pressure may vary according to the progestin in the COC .
5 . 4 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as RIVELSA .
Discontinue RIVELSA prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
RIVELSA can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 5 Age - related Considerations The risk for cardiovascular disease and prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease increases with age .
Certain conditions , such as smoking and migraine headache without aura , that do not contraindicate COC use in younger females , are contraindications to use in women over 35 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE , particularly before initiating RIVELSA for women over 35 years , such as : • Hypertension • Diabetes • Dyslipidemia • Obesity 5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs , including RIVELSA , may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
5 . 7 Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia RIVELSA is contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35 , or females who have diabetes with hypertension , nephropathy , retinopathy , neuropathy , other vascular disease , or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
RIVELSA may decrease glucose tolerance .
Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic females who are taking RIVELSA .
Dyslipidemia Consider alternative contraception for females with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
RIVELSA may cause adverse lipid changes .
Females with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using RIVELSA , which may increase the risk of pancreatitis .
5 . 8 Headache RIVELSA is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura , and in women over 35 years of age who have migraine headaches with or without aura [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If a woman taking RIVELSA develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue RIVELSA if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of RIVELSA in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Bleeding and / or spotting that occurs at any time while taking the first 84 tablets ( light pink , pink and purple ) of each extended - cycle regimen is considered “ unscheduled ” bleeding / spotting .
Bleeding that occurs during the time a woman takes the seven tablets ( yellow ) containing 10 mcg of ethinyl estradiol is considered “ scheduled ” bleeding .
Unscheduled and Scheduled Bleeding and Spotting Females using RIVELSA may experience unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting , especially during the first 3 months of use .
Bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or by changing to a different contraceptive product .
If unscheduled bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles on RIVELSA , evaluate for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
When prescribing RIVELSA , consider the occurrence of fewer scheduled menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) against the occurrence of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
A 12 - month open - label study of the efficacy of RIVELSA in preventing pregnancy assessed scheduled and unscheduled bleeding [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] in 3 , 597 women who completed 34 , 087 28 - day cycles of exposure .
A total of 178 ( 4 . 9 % ) of the women discontinued RIVELSA , at least in part , due to bleeding and / or spotting .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly stable over time , with an average of 3 to 4 days of bleeding and / or spotting per each 91 - day cycle .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 2 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding , spotting , and unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting in Treatment Cycles 1 to 4 .
Table 2 : Number of Unscheduled Bleeding , Spotting and Bleeding and / or Spotting Days per 91 - day Cycle Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Bleeding per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 7 . 2 0 4 10 1 . 0 2 ( 2820 ) 3 . 3 0 0 4 0 . 0 3 ( 2433 ) 2 . 5 0 0 3 0 . 0 4 ( 2213 ) 2 . 2 0 0 2 0 . 0 Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Spotting per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 10 . 7 2 7 15 1 . 8 2 ( 2820 ) 6 . 7 0 3 9 0 . 8 3 ( 2433 ) 5 . 2 0 2 6 0 . 5 4 ( 2213 ) 4 . 4 0 1 5 0 . 3 Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 17 . 9 5 14 27 3 . 5 2 ( 2820 ) 10 . 0 1 5 14 1 . 3 3 ( 2433 ) 7 . 7 0 3 10 0 . 8 4 ( 2213 ) 6 . 6 0 3 8 0 . 8 Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Figure 2 shows the percent of RIVELSA subjects in the primary clinical trial with ≥ 7 days or ≥ 20 days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , or just unscheduled bleeding , during each 91 - day treatment cycle .
Figure 2 : Percent of Women Taking RIVELSA Who Reported Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting [ MULTIMEDIA ] If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Females who use RIVELSA may experience absence of scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding , even if they are not pregnant .
Based on data from the clinical trial , amenorrhea occurred in approximately 1 . 9 % of women during Cycle 1 , 7 . 7 % during Cycle 2 , 10 . 7 % during Cycle 3 , and 10 . 1 % during Cycle 4 using RIVELSA .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping RIVELSA , especially if these conditions were pre - existent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe females with a history of depression and discontinue RIVELSA if depression recurs to a serious degree .
Six cases of suicidality ( suicide attempts and suicidal behavior ) were reported in the clinical trial ; several of these cases occurred in women with a psychiatric history .
Data on the association of COCs with onset of depression or exacerbation of existing depression are limited .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer RIVELSA is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of RIVELSA may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens , including RIVELSA , may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary angioedema .
5 . 14 Chloasma Chloasma may occur with RIVELSA use , especially in females with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Advise females with a history of chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking RIVELSA .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in clinical trials for RIVELSA were headaches , heavy / irregular vaginal bleeding , nausea / vomiting , acne , dysmenorrhea , weight increased , mood changes , anxiety / panic attack , breast pain and migraines .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 888 - 483 - 8279 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below are from a 12 - month , US , open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 - 40 , of whom 3 , 597 took at least one dose of RIVELSA ( 2 , 661 woman - years of exposure ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : 13 . 3 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % of women ) leading to discontinuation were heavy / irregular bleeding ( 5 . 0 % ) , mood swings / alteration / affect lability ( 1 . 4 % ) , headaches / migraines ( 1 . 3 % ) , weight increased ( 1 . 3 % ) and acne ( 1 . 0 % ) .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) : headaches ( 12 . 2 % ) , heavy / irregular vaginal bleeding ( 9 . 7 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 8 . 8 % ) , acne ( 5 . 4 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 5 . 4 % ) , weight increased ( 4 . 6 % ) , mood changes ( depression , depressed mood , crying , major depression , affective disorder , depression suicidal , dysthymic disorder ) ( 2 . 9 % ) , anxiety / panic attack ( 2 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness / pain / discomfort ( 2 . 2 % ) , migraine ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 women ) : Abortion Spontaneous , Suicide Attempt , Cholecystitis / Cholelithiasis , Deep Vein Thrombosis , Ectopic Pregnancy .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 - 1 . 12 ( Figure 3 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 2 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 - 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 3 : Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of extended - cycle COCs containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal distension , vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , fatigue , malaise , edema peripheral , pain Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reaction Investigations : blood pressure increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscle spasms , pain in extremity Nervous system disorders : dizziness , loss of consciousness Psychiatric disorders : insomnia Reproductive and breast disorders : dysmenorrhea Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : pulmonary embolism , pulmonary thrombosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia Vascular disorders : thrombosis [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available .
There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs .
However , based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs , clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested .
Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with RIVELSA .
Enzyme inducers ( e . g . , CYP3A4 ) : May decrease the effectiveness of RIVELSA or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with RIVELSA .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs : Table 3 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with RIVELSA .
Table 3 : Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding .
Prevention or management • Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability .
Examples Aprepitant , barbiturates , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin , rifampin , rifabutin , rufinamide , topiramate , products containing St . John ’ s worta , and certain protease inhibitors ( see separate section on protease inhibitors below ) .
Colesevelam Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding , depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the COC .
Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction .
a Induction potency of St . John ’ s wort may vary widely based on preparation .
Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with some HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ) , some HCV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ) , and some non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , nevirapine ) .
In contrast , significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ) and with other non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , etravirine ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 4 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co - administered with RIVELSA .
Table 4 : Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co - Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
• Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control .
Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary .
Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine .
Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid - binding and cortisol - binding globulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol - containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) .
Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer RIVELSA with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , and glecaprevir / pibrentasvir due to potential for ALT elevations .
7 . 4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Discontinue use if pregnancy occurs .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Advise use of another method .
RIVELSA is not recommended for nursing mothers ; may decrease milk production .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no use for contraception in pregnancy ; therefore , RIVELSA should be discontinued during pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to CHCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and / or metabolites are present in human milk .
CHCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established .
When possible , advise the nursing female to use other methods of contraception until she discontinues breastfeeding [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for RIVELSA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from RIVELSA or the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of RIVELSA have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of RIVELSA before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment on the disposition of RIVELSA .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
RIVELSA is contraindicated in females with acute hepatitis or severe decompensated cirrhosis .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION RIVELSA ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) tablets is an extended - cycle oral contraceptive .
RIVELSA consists of 42 light pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 21 purple tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Levonorgestrel is a progestin and ethinyl estradiol is an estrogen .
The structural formulas , molecular formulas , molecular weights , and chemical names for the active components are shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 4 Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - ( 17α ) - ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 4 Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
Each light pink tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 2 / Indigo Carmine aluminum lake , FD & C Yellow no . 6 / Sunset Yellow FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Each pink tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 2 / Indigo Carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Each purple tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 1 / Brilliant blue FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Each yellow tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C Yellow no . 6 / Sunset Yellow FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action CHCs prevent pregnancy primarily by suppressing ovulation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with RIVELSA .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours after RIVELSA administration .
Levonorgestrel is completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is approximately 40 % .
The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol absorption following oral administration of RIVELSA has not been evaluated .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of levonorgestrel following administration of another levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol combination tablet with an equal dose of levonorgestrel for 84 days , in healthy women are reported in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters for 150 mcg Levonorgestrel Following Administration of a Levonorgestrel / Ethinyl Estradiol Combination Tablet Once Daily for 84 Days AUC0 - 24 hr ( mean ± SD ) Cmax ( mean ± SD ) Tmax ( mean ± SD ) Day 1 18 . 2 ± 6 . 1 ng • hr / mL 3 . 0 ± 1 . 0 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 21 64 . 4 ± 25 . 1 ng • hr / mL 6 . 2 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 84 60 . 2 ± 24 . 6 ng • hr / mL 5 . 5 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours Following repeated daily dosing of levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) levels that are induced by ethinyl estradiol , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Systemic exposure to ethinyl estradiol following administration of a levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol combination tablet increases linearly in an approximate dose - proportional manner over the range of doses of 20 mcg to 30 mcg within this product .
Systemic exposure to ethinyl estradiol ( as assessed by AUC ) at steady state following administration of levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives is approximately 20 % higher than expected based on single - dose data for the dose range of 20 - 30 mcg .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 - 99 % protein - bound , principally to SHBG and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
The apparent volume of distribution of ethinyl estradiol is reported to be approximately 4 . 3 L / kg .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 95 - 97 % bound to serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate and to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol involves formation of ethinyl estradiol - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed ethinyl estradiol by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
The mean terminal elimination half - life for levonorgestrel after a single dose of RIVELSA ranged from 36 - 41 hours .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The terminal elimination half - life of ethinyl estradiol following single doses of RIVELSA is approximately 16 . 5 hours .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month , multicenter , open - label , single - arm clinical trial conducted in the US , 3 , 667 women , 18 - 40 years old , were enrolled and 3 , 565 were treated for up to four 91 - day cycles , which equates to thirteen 28 - day cycles , to assess the safety and efficacy of RIVELSA , completing the equivalent of 33 , 895 28 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those treated was : Caucasian ( 64 % ) , African - American ( 19 % ) , Hispanic ( 11 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 3 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range of those women treated was 83 to 402 lbs . , with a mean weight of 162 . 5 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 44 % were current hormonal contraceptive users , 39 % were prior users ( who had used hormonal contraceptives in the past ) , and 17 % were new starters .
Of treated women , 13 . 2 % were lost to follow - up , 12 . 8 % discontinued due to an adverse event , and 6 . 1 % discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women aged 18 - 35 years was 3 . 19 pregnancies per 100 woman - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 2 . 49 , 4 . 03 ) , based on 70 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and up to and including 7 days after the last pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes patients who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied RIVELSA ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) tablets are available as round , film - coated , unscored , biconvex tablets debossed with TV on one side , packaged in an Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser , each containing a 13 - week supply of the tablets in the following order : • 42 light pink tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 076 on the other side • 21 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 075 on the other side • 21 purple tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 074 on the other side and • 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol : debossed with 077 on the other side Box of 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers NDC 0093 - 6031 - 82 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , Women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use RIVELSA [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Venous Thromboembolism Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use during Pregnancy Instruct females to stop RIVELSA if pregnancy is confirmed during treatment .
Sexually Transmitted Infections RIVELSA does not protect against HIV infection and other sexually transmitted infections .
Dosing and Missed Pill Instructions Patients should take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients to see , “ What to do if you miss pills ” section of the FDA - Approved Instructions for Use .
Need for Additional Contraception Postpartum females who have not yet had a period when they start RIVELSA need to use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a light pink tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
There is a need for a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with RIVELSA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation RIVELSA may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
When possible , nursing women should use other methods of contraception until they have discontinued breastfeeding [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Amenorrhea and Possible Symptoms of Pregnancy Amenorrhea may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Advise the patient to contact a healthcare provider in the event of amenorrhea with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ] .
Depression Depressed mood and depression may occur .
Women should contact their healthcare provider if mood changes and depressive symptoms occur , including shortly after initiating the treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . 08 / 2022 RIV - 004 © 2022 Teva Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
FDA - approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION RIVELSA ® ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) What is the most important information I should know about RIVELSA ?
Do not use RIVELSA if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is RIVELSA ?
RIVELSA is a birth control pill ( hormonal contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called levonorgestrel .
How does RIVELSA work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a single clinical study lasting 12 months , 2 to 4 women out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use RIVELSA .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take RIVELSA ?
Do not take RIVELSA if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , eyes , or lungs • have certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have an inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have liver disease , including liver tumors • have high blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or have any migraine headaches if you are over age 35 • have any unexplained bleeding from the vagina • had breast cancer which may be sensitive to female hormones If any of these conditions happens to you while you are taking RIVELSA , stop taking RIVELSA right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) when you stop taking RIVELSA .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking RIVELSA ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
RIVELSA may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in RIVELSA may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the conditions listed in , “ Who should not take RIVELSA ” above .
Your healthcare provider may recommend another method of birth control .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
RIVELSA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well RIVELSA works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take RIVELSA ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the most serious risks of taking birth control pills ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
This increased risk is highest when you first start taking birth control pills and when you restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) Women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure • Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain or pressure in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What are common side effects of birth control pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat ( cholesterol , triglyceride ) levels in the blood • Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight gain This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 ‑ 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
What else should I know about taking RIVELSA ?
Birth control pills do not protect you against any sexually transmitted infection , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
You should stop RIVELSA at least four weeks before you have major surgery and not restart it for at least two weeks after the surgery , due to an increased risk of blood clots .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like RIVELSA , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Use a back - up or alternative birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like condoms and spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your healthcare provider may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone .
How should I store RIVELSA ?
• Store RIVELSA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep RIVELSA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about RIVELSA Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use RIVELSA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give RIVELSA to anyone else .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your healthcare provider for a more detailed label written for medical professionals .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking RIVELSA ?
When you take RIVELSA , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should expect to have 4 scheduled periods per year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 yellow pills ) .
Each period is likely to last about 3 - 4 days .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with each additional cycle .
Do not stop taking RIVELSA because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
What if I miss my scheduled period when taking RIVELSA ?
You should consider the possibility that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the days that you are taking yellow pills ) .
Because scheduled periods are less frequent when you are taking RIVELSA , notify your healthcare provider that you have missed your period and that you are taking RIVELSA .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider evaluates you to determine if you are pregnant .
Stop taking RIVELSA if it is determined that you are pregnant .
What are the ingredients in RIVELSA ?
Active ingredients : Light pink tablets , pink tablets , purple tablets : levonorgestrel acetate and ethinyl estradiol Yellow tablets : ethinyl estradiol Inactive ingredients : Light pink tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 2 / Indigo Carmine aluminum lake , FD & C Yellow no . 6 / Sunset Yellow FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Pink tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 2 / Indigo Carmine aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Purple tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C Red no . 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , FD & C Blue no . 1 / Brilliant blue FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Yellow tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C Yellow no . 6 / Sunset Yellow FCF aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , polyethylene glycol / macrogol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE RIVELSA ® ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) Important information about taking RIVELSA • Take one pill every day at the same time .
Take pills in the order directed on the Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
• Do not skip pills or delay taking your pills .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) , you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• You may have spotting or light bleeding or feel sick to your stomach during the first few months of taking RIVELSA .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
• If you vomit or have diarrhea within 4 hours after taking your pill , follow the instructions in , “ What to do if you miss pills . ”
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• If you have trouble remembering to take RIVELSA , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
Before you start taking RIVELSA • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
• Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
Your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser consists of 3 trays with cards that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 42 light pink tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 purple tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol . Tray 1 contains 4 rows of 7 light pink pills .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Tray 2 contains 2 rows of 7 light pink pills ( a total of 14 light pink pills ) followed by 2 rows of 7 pink pills ( a total of 14 pink pills ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Tray 3 contains 1 row of 7 pink pills , followed by three rows of 7 purple pills ( a total of 21 purple pills ) , followed by the last row , which contains 7 yellow pills .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Also find : • Where on the first tray in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner at the start arrow ) and • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks and arrow ) .
• Be sure you have another kind of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) ready at all times , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When to start RIVELSA • Take the first light pink pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first light pink pill that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first light pink pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you are switching from another birth control method : If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the “ patch , ” or the “ vaginal ring ” ) , wait for your next period and begin taking RIVELSA on the Sunday after your period starts as instructed in steps 1 and 2 in , “ When to start RIVELSA ” above .
You need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken RIVELSA for 7 days .
If you have recently given birth and have not yet had a period , use another method of birth control if you have sex ( such as condoms and spermicides ) as a back - up method until you have taken RIVELSA for 7 days .
How to take RIVELSA • Take one pill at the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
• Do not skip pills even if you are experiencing spotting or bleeding or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• Do not skip the yellow pills because they are not placebo pills ( “ sugar pills ” ) .
They contain ethinyl estradiol .
• When you finish a tablet dispenser • After taking the last yellow pill , start taking the first light pink pill from a new Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser the very next day ( this should be on a Sunday ) regardless of when your period started .
• If you miss your scheduled period when you are taking the yellow pills , contact your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you are pregnant , you should stop taking RIVELSA .
What to do if you miss pills If you MISS 1 light pink , pink or purple pill : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you MISS 2 light pink , pink or purple pills in a row : • Take 2 pills on the day you remember , and 2 pills the next day .
• Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You MUST use another birth control method ( such as condoms and spermicide ) as a back - up for the 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE light pink , pink or purple pills in a row : • Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day as indicated on the pack until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example : If you resume taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under “ Thursday ” and do not take the missed pills .
You may experience bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
• You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms and spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the yellow pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you MISS ANY of the 7 yellow pills : • Throw away the missed pills .
• Take the next scheduled pill at the scheduled time .
• You do not need a back - up method of birth control .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed • Use a back - up method anytime you have sex .
• Keep taking one pill each day until you contact your healthcare provider .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 08 / 2022 RIVPL - 004 © 2022 Teva Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 1 of 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0093 - 6031 - 82 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , 91 Tablets Each RIVELSA ™ ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol ) tablets 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg ( ethinyl estradiol ) tablets 0 . 01 mg Usual Dosage : One tablet daily for 91 consecutive days in the following order : 42 light pink tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 pink tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 21 purple tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Pharmacist : Dispense patient information with each prescription .
Rx only SHAPING WOMEN ’ S Health ® TEVA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 2 of 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0093 - 6031 - 82 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , 91 Tablets Each RIVELSA ™ ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol ) tablets 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg ( ethinyl estradiol ) tablets 0 . 01 mg Usual Dosage : One tablet daily for 91 consecutive days in the following order : 42 light pink tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 pink tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 21 purple tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Pharmacist : Dispense patient information with each prescription .
Rx only SHAPING WOMEN ’ S Health ® TEVA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
