Active Ingredients Avobenzone 1 . 9 % , Homosalate 8 . 8 % , Octisalate 4 . 9 % , Octocrylene 9 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not stroe at temperatures above 120 F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark , or while smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing in .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Apply outdoors .
Avoid overspray as could cause surface to become slippery .
Do not apply in windy conditions .
Use in a well - ventilated area Stop use and ask doctor if skin rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Shake well Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Hold container 4 to 6 inches from skin to apply Rub in Do not spray directly on faae .
Spray onto hands and apply to face .
Reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating Immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . weare long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information May stain fabrics .
Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Diisopropyl Adipate , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Fragreance , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Linum Usitatissimum ( Linseed ) Seed Oil , Lycium Barbarum ( Goji Berry ) Fruit Extract , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Rosa Moschata Seed Oil , Rubus Idaeus ( Raspberry ) Fruit Extract , Tocopherol , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobomyl Acrylate Copolymer , Vaccinum Myrtillus Fruit / Leaf Extract , Water Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
