Active ingredient Chlorine Dioxide : 1 g / pack ......
Purpose : Antibacterial Inactive ingredients Citric acid Sodium chlorite Sodium chloride Sodium bicarbonate Sodium molybdate Activator Sodium sulfate Essence Purpose Antibacterial When using Please do not contact this product directly with skin or close - fitting clothing , please use it on the outermost clothing .
Please do not place it with food .
If you eat it carelessly , please rinse your mouth immediately for medical treatment .
Do not use it during sleep .
Do not use Allergic to chlorine dioxide preparation please prohibit the use .
It is strictly prohibited to place in drinks or oral sterilization .
Stop use Due to the release characteristics of the product , taste may be generated during use .
If irritation or discomfort occurs , discontinue use and see a doctor .
Ask doctor If irritation or discomfort occurs , discontinue use and see a doctor .
If you eat it carelessly , please rinse your mouth immediately for medical treatment .
Ask doctor / pharmacist Ask doctor / pharmacist when you current use other drugs .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Please put it in an untouchable position for infants , pets and people with cognitive impairment .
Questions Please contact us when you have any questions .
Telephone : + 86 - 4008284131 Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage Product Features ; Gaseous circulation disinfection , 360 ° without dead corners , fast and effective disinfection , especially suitable for influenza season .
The application of the new disinfection technology of A1 grade ( the same level as drinking water and salt ) recognized by the World Health Organization is non - toxic and has no side effects .
Product Efficacy : Quickly kill bacteria , germs , poisonous bacteria and other microorganisms in the air ; Purify formaldehyde , TVOC , smoke poison and other harmful substances in the air ; Dispel odor , fishy smell and other peculiar smell .
Usage : Plug - in .
Tear open the aluminum foil inner bag , take out the disinfection card , and install the hanging rope or clip ; It can be carried with you ; It can be trailer or wardrobe ; Desks or desks can be placed ; It can be used as a space for disinfection , odor removal , antivirus and in addition to formaldehyde .
Dosage & administration 10 g / piece * 5 pieces / box Scope of Application : The relatively closed space inside the room and the car ; Offices , schools , hospitals , subways , engine rooms , shopping malls , restaurants , hotels and other public places are especially suitable , covering 1 m ³ .
Dosage forms & strengths Dosage form : Release Granules .
Strength : 1 g / 10 g .
Warnings Precautions : 1 .
Please do not contact this product directly with skin or close - fitting clothing , please use it on the outermost clothing .
2 .
Allergic to chlorine dioxide preparation please prohibit the use .
3 .
It is strictly prohibited to place in drinks or oral sterilization .
4 .
Please do not place it with food .
If you eat it carelessly , please rinse your mouth immediately for medical treatment .
5 .
Do not use it during sleep .
6 .
Please put it in an untouchable position for infants , pets and people with cognitive impairment .
Other Information 1 .
Storage : Seal .
Store in a cool and dry place .
2 .
Validity Period : It has not been opened for three years , and the validity period after opening is 60 days .
3 .
If used at intervals , it can be stored in a closed container or bag in a cool and dry place .
4 .
Due to the release characteristics of the product , taste may be generated during use .
5 .
The effect will vary according to the usage and place of use .
If the air flow is intense and windy , the effect will be affected .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
