RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) 2 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE E - Z - HD is indicated for use in double - contrast radiographic examinations of the esophagus , stomach and duodenum to help visualize the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract in patients 12 years and older .
E - Z - HD , a radiographic contrast agent , is indicated for use in double - contrast radiographic examinations of the esophagus , stomach and duodenum to visualize the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract in patients 12 years and older ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended reconstituted oral dose for adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older is between 65 mL to 135 mL ( 155 to 321 grams of barium sulfate , respectively ) ( 2 . 1 ) • Must reconstitute supplied powder with water prior to use .
See Full Prescribing Information for reconstitution instructions ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of reconstituted E - Z - HD for adults and pediatric patients 12 years and olderis between 65 and 135 mL given orally ( 155 to 321 grams of barium sulfate , respectively ) .
Volumes closer to 65 mL are recommended for the examination of the esophagus and volumes up to 135 mL are recommended for examination of the entire upper GI tract .
2 . 2 Instructions for Reconstitution The E - Z - HD powder must be reconstituted prior to administration by a healthcare provider according to the following instructions : • Accurately measure 65 mL of water and add this water to the bottle containing the supplied E - Z - HD powder • Replace cap securely on bottle and shake vigorously for 30 seconds • Wait 5 minutes and re - shake bottle thoroughly .
Reconstitution yields approximately 140 mL of E - Z - HD for oral suspension containing 2 . 38 grams of barium sulfate per mL 2 . 3 Administration Instructions • Administer the reconstituted E - Z - HD for oral suspension immediately upon reconstitution • To use with a straw , remove the adhesive label from top of the cap .
Remove cap and use straw to push out cap liner .
Replace cap • Discard any unused suspension • Advise patients to hydrate following the barium sulfate procedure 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral suspension : 334 grams of barium sulfate supplied as a fine , white to lightly colored powder ( 98 % w / w ) in a single - dose HDPE plastic bottle for reconstitution .
The suspension is 238 % w / v when reconstituted and should be homogeneous and white to lightly colored .
For oral suspension : 334 grams of barium sulfate ( 98 % w / w ) in a single - dose bottle for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS E - Z - HD is contraindicated in patients : • Known or suspected perforation of the GI tract • Known obstruction of the GI tract • At high risk of GI perforation such as those with a recent prior GI perforation , acute GI hemorrhage or ischemia , toxic megacolon , severe ileus , post GI surgery or biopsy , acute GI injury or burn , or recent radiotherapy to the pelvis • At high risk of aspiration such as those with prior aspiration , tracheo - esophageal fistula , or obtundation • With known severe hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the E - Z - HD excipients • Known or suspected perforation of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Conditions associated to high risk of aspiration ( 4 ) • Conditions associated to high risk of GI perforation ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of E - Z - HD ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( 5 . 1 ) • Intra - abdominal leakage : Caution is recommended in patient conditions like GI fistula , ulcer , inflammatory bowel disease , appendicitis or diverticulitis , severe stenosis or obstructing lesions of the GI tract ( 5 . 2 ) • Patients should maintain adequate hydration in days following a barium sulfate procedure to avoid obstruction or impaction caused by baroliths ( 5 . 3 ) • Aspiration : Caution is recommended in patients with history of food aspiration and in patients with known swallowing disorders ( 5 . 4 ) • E - Z - HD is not intended for pediatric use from birth through 11 years of age ( 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Barium sulfate preparations contain a number of excipients , including natural and artificial flavors and may induce serious hypersensitivity reactions .
The manifestations include hypotension , bronchospasm and other respiratory impairments , dermal reactions including rashes , urticaria , and itching .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent may increase the risk for hypersensitivity reactions .
Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 2 Intra - abdominal Barium Leakage The use of E - Z - HD is contraindicated in patients at high risk of perforation of the GI tract [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of E - Z - HD may result in leakage of barium from the GI tract in the presence of conditions such as carcinomas , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , or diverticulitis , and in patients with a severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , especially if it is distal to the stomach .
The barium leakage has been associated with peritonitis and granuloma formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Gastrointestinal Transit and Obstruction Orally administered barium sulfate may accumulate proximal to a constricting lesion of the colon , causing obstruction or impaction with development of baroliths ( inspissated barium associated with feces ) and may lead to abdominal pain , appendicitis , bowel obstruction , or rarely perforation .
Patients with the following conditions are at higher risk for developing obstruction or baroliths : severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , impaired GI motility , electrolyte imbalance , dehydration , on a low residue diet , taking medications that delay GI motility , constipation , pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease , and the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
To reduce the risk of delayed GI transit and obstruction , patients should maintain adequate hydration during and in the days following a barium sulfate procedure .
Consider the administration of laxatives .
5 . 4 Aspiration Pneumonitis The use of E - Z - HD is contraindicated in patients at high risk of aspiration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oral administration of barium is associated with aspiration pneumonitis , especially in patients with a history of food aspiration or with compromised swallowing mechanism .
Vomiting following oral administration of barium sulfate may lead to aspiration pneumonitis .
In patients at risk for aspiration , begin the procedure with a small ingested volume of E - Z - HD .
Discontinue administration of E - Z - HD immediately if aspiration is suspected .
5 . 5 Systemic Embolization Barium sulfate products may occasionally intravasate into the venous drainage of the large bowel and enter the circulation as a " barium embolus " leading to potentially fatal complications which include systemic and pulmonary embolism , disseminated intravascular coagulation , septicemia and prolonged severe hypotension .
Although this complication is exceedingly uncommon after oral administration of a barium sulfate suspension , monitor patients for potential intravasation when administering barium sulfate .
5 . 6 Risk with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance E - Z - HD contains sorbitol which may cause severe reactions if ingested by patients with hereditary fructose intolerance , such as : vomiting , hypoglycemia , jaundice , hemorrhage , hepatomegaly , hyperuricemia , and kidney failure .
Before administration of E - Z - HD assess patients for a history of hereditary fructose intolerance and avoid use in these patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reporting or clinical studies of barium sulfate administered orally .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure • Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping • Serious adverse reactions and fatalities include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , intestinal perforation with consequent peritonitis and granuloma formation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes Common adverse reactions include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary E - Z - HD is not absorbed systemically following oral administration , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary E - Z - HD is not absorbed systemically by the mother following oral administration , and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to E - Z - HD .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Double - contrast radiographic examinations of the esophagus , stomach and duodenum may be used in pediatric patients 12 years and older .
E - Z - HD is contraindicated in pediatric patients with tracheo - esophageal fistula .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with a history of asthma or food allergies may be at increased risk for development of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease should be monitored for bowel obstruction after use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of E - Z - HD did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION E - Z - HD ( barium sulfate ) is a radiographic contrast agent that is supplied as a fine , white to lightly colored powder for suspension ( 98 % w / w ) for oral administration .
The active ingredient barium sulfate is designated chemically as BaSO4 with a molecular weight of 233 . 43 g / mol , a density of 4 . 5 g / cm3 , and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] E - Z - HD contains excipients including : acacia , artificial cherry flavor , artificial strawberry flavor , carrageenan , citric acid , ethyl maltol , polysorbate 80 , saccharin sodium , simethicone , sodium citrate , and sorbitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Due to its high atomic number , barium ( the active ingredient in E - Z - HD ) is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Under physiological conditions , barium sulfate passes through the GI tract in an unchanged form and is absorbed only in pharmacologically insignificant amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of barium sulfate or potential effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied E - Z - HD ( barium sulfate ) for suspension , is supplied as a fine , white to lightly colored powder ( 98 % w / w ) in a single - dose HDPE plastic bottle containing 334 grams of barium sulfate .
Provided as : 24 bottles per pack ( NDC 32909 - 764 - 01 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at USP controlled room temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION After administration advise patients to : • Maintain adequate hydration • Seek medical attention for worsening of constipation or slow gastrointestinal passage • Seek medical attention for any delayed onset of hypersensitivity : rash , urticaria , or respiratory difficulty Manufactured by EZEM Canada Inc Anjou ( Quebec ) Canada H1J 2Z4 For Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 CL80608 Revised December 2021 EZ - HD Labels NDC : 32909 - 764 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
