This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Ethyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerin ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water \ • Fragrance The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Use wipes on hands , skin , or surfaces to decrease bacteria , recomended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds Keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Wet hands thoroughtly with product , and allow to dry .
Discard wipe in trash receptacle after use .
Do not flush .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store between 60 - 90 F ( 15 - 30 C ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 104 F ( 40 C ) .
May discolor some fabrics .
Harmful to wood finishes and plastics .
Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water , fragrance Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
