NDC : 51655 - 099 - 51 MFG : 61442 - 113 - 01 Acyclovir 800 MG 40 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains Acyclovir USP .... 800 MG Dosage : See package insert Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Protect form moisture .
Store in a tight , light - resistant container ( See USP ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Carlsbad Technologies , Inc Carlsbad , CA 92008 Lot # : Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indications and Usage INDICATIONS AND USAGE Herpes Zoster Infections Acyclovir is indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster ( shingles ) .
Genital Herpes Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes .
Chickenpox Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of chickenpox ( varicella ) Information for patients Patients are instructed to consult with their physician if they experience severe or troublesome adverse reactions , they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant , they intend to breast feed while taking orally administered acyclovir , or they have any other questions .
Patients should be advised to maintain adequate hydration .
Herpes Zoster : There are no data on treatment initiated more than 72 hours after onset of the zoster rash .
Patients should be advised to initiate treatment as soon as possible after a diagnosis of herpes zoster .
Genital Herpes Infections : Patients should be informed that acyclovir is not a cure for genital herpes .
There are no data evaluating whether acyclovir will prevent transmission of infection to others .
Because genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease , patients should avoid contact with lesions or intercourse when lesions and / or symptoms are present to avoid infecting partners .
Genital herpes can also be transmitted in the absence of symptoms through asymptomatic viral shedding .
If medical management of a genital herpes recurrence is indicated , patients should be advised to initiate therapy at the first sign or symptom of an episode .
Chickenpox : Chickenpox in otherwise healthy children is usually a self - limited disease of mild to moderate severity .
Adolescents and adults tend to have more severe disease .
Treatment was initiated within 24 hours of the typical chickenpox rash in the controlled studies , and there is no information regarding the effects of treatment begun later in the disease course Adverse Reactions Herpes Simplex Short - Term Administration : The most frequent adverse events reported during clinical trials of treatment of genital herpes with acyclovir 200 mg administered orally 5 times daily every 4 hours for 10 days were nausea and / or vomiting in 8 of 298 patient treatments ( 2 . 7 % ) .
Nausea and / or vomiting occurred in 2 of 287 ( 0 . 7 % ) patients who received placebo .
Long - Term Administration : The most frequent adverse events reported in a clinical trial for the prevention of recurrences with continuous administration of 400 mg ( two 200 - mg capsules ) 2 times daily for 1 year in 586 patients treated with acyclovir were nausea ( 4 . 8 % ) and diarrhea ( 2 . 4 % ) .
The 589 control patients receiving intermittent treatment of recurrences with acyclovir for 1 year reported diarrhea ( 2 . 7 % ) , nausea ( 2 . 4 % ) , and headache ( 2 . 2 % ) .
Herpes Zoster The most frequent adverse event reported during 3 clinical trials of treatment of herpes zoster ( shingles ) with 800 mg of oral acyclovir 5 times daily for 7 to 10 days in 323 patients was malaise ( 11 . 5 % ) .
The 323 placebo recipients reported malaise ( 11 . 1 % ) .
Chickenpox The most frequent adverse event reported during 3 clinical trials of treatment of chickenpox with oral acyclovir at doses of 10 to 20 mg / kg 4 times daily for 5 to 7 days or 800 mg 4 times daily for 5 days in 495 patients was diarrhea ( 3 . 2 % ) .
The 498 patients receiving placebo reported diarrhea ( 2 . 2 % ) .
Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during post - approval use of acyclovir .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , potential causal connection to acyclovir , or a combination of these factors .
General : Anaphylaxis , angioedema , fever , headache , pain , peripheral edema .
Nervous : Aggressive behavior , agitation , ataxia , coma , confusion , decreased consciousness , delirium , dizziness , dysarthria , encephalopathy , hallucinations , paresthesia , psychosis , seizure , somnolence , tremors .
These symptoms may be marked , particularly in older adults or in patients with renal impairment .
Digestive : Diarrhea , gastrointestinal distress , nausea .
Hematologic and Lymphatic : Anemia , leukocytoclastic vasculitis , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , thrombocytopenia .
Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas : Elevated liver function tests , hepatitis , hyperbilirubinemia , jaundice .
Musculoskeletal : Myalgia .
Skin : Alopecia , erythema multiforme , photosensitive rash , pruritus , rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , urticaria .
Special Senses : Visual abnormalities .
Urogenital : Renal failure , renal pain ( may be associated with renal failure ) , elevated blood urea nitrogen , elevated creatinine , hematuria
