Indications Anesthetic for relief of pain at site of injury ; relief of musculoskeletal pain and soreness ; pain from neuropathy ; local medical procedures , injections and vaccines ; relief of pruritis , pruritic eczema , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness and discomfort due to pruritis ani , pruritis vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use Please see full prescription information LiDORx ® 3 % is an Amide type Local Anesthetic indicated for : Relief of pain , soreness , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites and discomfort due to pruritus , pruritic eczemas , pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
2 .
Dosage and Administration Each pump of the LiDORx ® 3 % bottle ( 30 mL Airless Pump bottle ) will deliver 0 . 25 mL of LiDORx ® 3 % enough to cover a 2 inch by 2 inch area of skin .
A single application should not exceed 4 pumps of the Airless bottle , equal to 1 gram of LiDORx ® 3 % , ( 30 mg of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ) .
No more than 16 pumps of the Airless Pump bottle , approximately 4 grams of LiDORx ® 3 % ( 120 mg Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP , ) should be administered in any one day .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with LiDORx ® 3 % is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
Apply 1 - 4 pumps to the affected area three or four times daily not to exceed 16 pumps in twenty - four hours ( 24 Hrs ) or as directed by a physician .
As a topical anesthesic , apply an adequate amount for the desired procedure to the target area 10 minutes prior to initiation of procedure .
2 . 1 Dosage for children It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ’ s rule ) .
For example a child of five years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 - 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ’ s rule .
In any case , the maximum amount of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP administered should not exceed 4 . 3 mg / kg ( 2 . 0 mg / lb ) of body weight .
2 . 2 Administration Apply 1 - 4 pumps to the affected area three or four times daily not to exceed 16 pumps in twenty - four hours ( 24 Hrs ) or as directed by a physician .
As a topical anesthesic , apply an adequate amount for the desired procedure to the target area 10 minutes prior to initiation of procedure .
3 .
Dosage Form and Strength LiDORx ® 1 % is a Topical Gel .
Each gram of LiDORx ® 1 % contains 1 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ( 10 mg ) .
Lid10ml LiDORx ® 3 % is a Topical Gel .
Each gram of LiDORx ® 3 % contains 3 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ( 30 mg ) .
Lid30ml LiDORx ® 9 % is a Topical Gel .
Each gram of LiDORx ® 9 % contains 9 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ( 90 mg ) .
Lid90ml CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of LidoRx 3 % .
Do not use LidoRx 3 % on traumatized mucosa or in the presence of secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application .
Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
5 .
Warnings and Precautions If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LiDORx ® 3 % Gel should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
In case of accidental ingestion get medical help or contact poison control center right away .
Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinernia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue LiDORx ® and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen For External Use Only .
Avoid Contact with Eyes .
If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LiDORx ® 3 % should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
Methemoglobinemia Warning : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinernia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue LiDORx ® and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
6 .
Adverse Reactions Adverse experiences following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Most common adverse reactions are redness or swelling at the application site .
Less common side effects , such as sluggishness , confusion , slow breathing , low blood pressure , or slow heartbeat , may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gensco Pharma at 855 - 743 - 6726 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Central Nervous System CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
6 . 2 Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
6 . 3 Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
7 .
Drug Interactions Prilocaine , Bupivacaine , Amyl nitrates / sodium nitrate / sodium thiosulfate , Dofetilide , Iomitapide , Beta - blockers ( eg , atenolol ) , Cimetidine , or Class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs ( ex .
Mexiletine ) .
Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinernia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Nitrates / Nitrites ( nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide ) ; Local anesthetics ( benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , inepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine ) ; Antineoplastic agents ( cyclophospharnide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfarnide , hydroxyurea ) ; Antibiotics ( dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - arninosalicvlic acid ) ; Antimalarials ( chloroquine , primaquine ) ; Anticonvulsants ( phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital ) ; Other drugs ( acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine ) .
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur .
Ask your health care provider if LiDORx ® 3 % may interact with other medicines that you take .
7 . 1 Serious interactions : Antiarrhythmic Drugs : LiDORx ® 3 % should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Bupivacaine liposome : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases toxicity of Bupivacaine by increasing the free ( unencapsulated ) bupiacaine .
Dofetilide : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases effects of dofetilide thru pharmacodynamic synergism .
Lomitapide : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases levels of lomitapide by affecting hepatic / intestinal enzymes CYP3A4 metabolism .
7 . 2 General interactions : DRUG INTERACTIONS : Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites Nitroglycerin , Nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics Benzocaine , Lidocaine , Bupivacaine , Mepivacaine , Letracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antincoplastic agents cyclophosphosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics Dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , paraaminosalicylic acid Antimalarials Chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e , Sulfasalazine ) , quinine Drugs metabolized via CYP3A4 enzyme : ( ex .
Antipsychotics , SSRIs , TCAs , many chemotherapeutics , calcium channel bockers , benzodiazopines ) Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may increase serum levels of many drugs metabolized by hepatic / intestinal CYP3A4 enzymes .
Drugs that affect hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme : ( ex .
Quinoline antibiotics , cimetidine , barbiturates , benzodiazepines , erythromycin ) May increase serum Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP levels by decreasing Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP metabolism by CYP1A2 enzyme .
8 .
Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 Use in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should LiDORx ® 3 % be used concomitantly with other products containing Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric use Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid over dosage when applying LiDORx ® 3 % to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be increased under such conditions .
8 . 5 Geriatric use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the healthy elderly and other adult patients .
9 .
Over Dosage Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
9 . 1 Management of local anesthetic emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ’ s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute over dosage with Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP The oral LD50 of Lidocaine HCI USP in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 - 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 - 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
10 .
Description 10 . 1 Active Ingredients Each gram of LiDORx ® 3 % contains Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP 3 % ( 30 mg ) .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure .
10 . 2 Inactive Ingredients AQUA ( DEIONIZED WATER ) , CARBOMER , ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL , PETROLATUM , POLYSORBATE - 20 , TRIETHANOLAMINE .
11 .
Clinical Pharmacology 11 . 1 Mechanism of action LiDORx ® 3 % releases Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
11 . 2 Onset and duration of anesthesia LiDORx ® 3 % effects local , topical anesthesia .
The onset is 3 - 5 minutes .
Clinical testing has demonstrated the average onset of anesthesia occurs 5 to 10 minutes after application of LiDORx ® 3 % .
In a study evaluating the onset and duration of anesthesia in 37 healthy volunteers the average time to anesthesia was 8 minutes and 40 seconds while duration of anesthesia in the majority of subjects was between 8 - 15 minutes ( median 10 minutes and 46 seconds ) .
There was considerable inter - subject variation that may be due to subject age and relative skin condition .
11 . 3 Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
11 . 4 Pharmacokinetics and metabolism Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes or open wounds , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
Approximately 90 % of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 μg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 μg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
12 .
Non - Clinical Toxicity Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted 13 .
How Supplied / Storage and Handling LiDORx ® 3 % ( Lidocaine HCl USP 3 % ) : Cartons 0 . 33 oz ( 9 . 5 g ) 10 mL Airless Pump - NDC 60760 - 408 - 10 for 1 Carton 1 . 01 oz ( 28 . 5 g ) 30 mL Airless Pump - NDC 60760 - 408 - 30 for 1 Carton 3 . 04 oz ( 86 g ) 90 mL Airless Pump - NDC 60760 - 408 - 90 for 1 Carton STORE AND DISPOSE OF THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN AND PETS .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This product may be administered under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Gensco Pharma 8550 NW 33 rd Street Miami , FL 33122 .
14 .
Patient Counseling Information Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemiia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness or fatique .
What is LiDORx ® 3 % ?
LiDORx ® 3 % is a topical gel containing 3 % lidocaine HCl USP ( 30 mg / gram of gel ) .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is a local anesthetic ( numbing medication ) .
It works by blocking nerve signals in your body .
LiDORx ® 3 % ( for use on the skin ) is used to reduce pain or discomfort caused by skin irritations such as sunburn , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , and minor cuts , scratches , hemorrhoids , and burns .
LiDORx ® 3 % may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide .
How do I use LiDORx ® 3 % ?
Use exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not use in larger or smaller amounts or for longer than recommended .
Follow the directions on your prescription label .
LiDORx ® 3 % is generally for use on the skin only .
If your medication comes with patient instructions for safe and effective use , follow these directions carefully .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions .
Your body may absorb more of this medication if you use too much , if you apply it over large skin areas , or if you apply heat , bandages , or plastic wrap to treated skin areas .
Skin that is cut or irritated may also absorb more topical medication than healthy skin .
Use the smallest amount of this medication needed to numb the skin or relieve pain .
Do not use large amounts of LiDORx ® 3 % , or cover treated skin areas with a bandage or plastic wrap without medical advice .
Be aware that many cosmetic procedures are performed without a medical doctor present .
LiDORx ® 3 % may be applied with your finger tips or a cotton swab .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions .
Do not apply this medication to swollen skin areas or deep puncture wounds .
Avoid using the medicine on skin that is raw or blistered , such as a severe burn or abrasion .
Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat .
Keep both used and unused LiDORx ® 3 % out of the reach of children or pets .
The amount of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP in the gel could be harmful to a child or pet who accidentally sucks on or swallows the gel .
Seek emergency medical attention if this happens .
What happens if I miss a dose ?
Since LiDORx ® 3 % is used as needed , you may not be on a dosing schedule .
If you are using the medication regularly , use the missed dose as soon as you remember .
Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose .
Do not use extra medicine to make up the missed dose .
What happens if I overdose ?
Seek emergency medical attention or call the Poison Help line at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
LiDORx ® 3 % applied to the skin is not likely to cause an overdose unless you apply more than the recommended dose .
Overdose may also occur if you apply heat , bandages , or plastic wrap to treated skin areas .
Improper use of LiDORx ® 3 % may result in death .
Overdose symptoms may include drowsiness , confusion , nervousness , ringing in your ears , blurred vision , feeling hot or cold , numbness , muscle twitches , uneven heartbeats , seizure ( convulsions ) , slowed breathing , or respiratory failure ( breathing stops ) .
What should I avoid while using LiDORx ® 3 % ?
Do not allow this medication to come into contact with your eyes .
If it does , rinse with water .
Avoid using other topical medications on the affected area unless directed by a physician .
LiDORx ® 3 % side effects : Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction : hives ; difficulty breathing ; swelling of your face , lips , tongue , or throat .
Use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Patients or caregivers should stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Stop using LiDORx ® 3 % and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects : • uneven heartbeats ; • drowsiness , confusion ; • tremors , seizure ( convulsions ) ; or • blurred vision .
Less serious side effects include : • mild irritation , redness , or swelling where the medication isapplied ; or • numbness in places where the medicine is accidentally applied .
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
PREGNANCY and BREAST - FEEDING : It is not known if Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP can cause harm to the fetus .
If you become pregnant , contact your doctor .
You will need to discuss the benefits and risks of using LiDORx ® 3 % while you are pregnant .
It is not known if Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is found in breast milk after topical use .
If you are or will be breast - feeding while you use LiDORx ® 3 % , check with your doctor .
Discuss any possible risks to your baby .
N / A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
