Warning Secction Do not take this product for persitent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema or if cough is accompainied with excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a doctor .
Persistent cough may be the sign of a serious condition .
Stop use and dask a doctor if symptoms persist or last more than 5 days ( children ) or 7 days ( adults ) , tends to recur , is accompained or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor .
Do not take this product if you are hypersensitive to any of the ingredients .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product .
Avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this product .
Active Ingredients Guaifenesin Dextromethorphan HBr Purpose Expectorant Antitussive Keep out of the reach of children In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a poison control center immediately Indications and Usage Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation occuring with common cold .
Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and dilute bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive .
This new formulation with aloe results a natural cleanser , penetrates tissue , bactericidal , viruscidal , and fungicidal , enhances normal cell proliferation and moisturizes tissues ( this statements are not yet evaluated by the Food and Drugs Administration " FDA " ) Broncochem Maximum Cough has not drowsiness effect .
Work in chest congestion , its specially formulated for children and adults .
Dossage and Administration Do not exceed 6 doses in a 24 hour period Adults and children 12 years and over : ( 10 mL or cc ) every 4 hours Children 6 years up to 12 years : ( 5 mL or cc ) every 4 hours Drug Interactions Section Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions or Parkinsons disease ) , or 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
Id you are uncertain ehether your prescription drug contains an MAOI , consult a health professional before taking this product Inactive Ingredient Section Aloe Vera , Ammonium Glycyrrhizinate , Citric Acid , Disodium HEDTA , Glacial Acetic Acid , Strawberry flavor , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , FD & C Red 40 , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Carboxymethylcellulose sodium , Total Sodium content : 12 mg ( in 10 mL or cc ) Package Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
