Rx only DESCRIPTION Ketoconazole Cream 2 % , for topical administration only , contains the broad - spectrum synthetic antifungal agent , ketoconazole 2 % , formulated in an aqueous cream vehicle consisting of propylene glycol , stearyl and cetyl alcohols , sorbitan monostearate , polysorbate 60 , isopropyl myristate , sodium sulfite anhydrous , polysorbate 80 and purified water .
Ketoconazole is cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] piperazine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When Ketoconazole Cream 2 % was applied dermally to intact or abraded skin of Beagle dogs for 28 consecutive days at a dose of 80 mg , there were no detectable plasma levels using an assay method having a lower detection limit of 2 ng / ml .
After a single topical application to the chest , back and arms of normal volunteers , systemic absorption of ketoconazole was not detected at the 5 ng / ml level in blood over a 72 - hour period .
Two dermal irritancy studies , a human sensitization test , a phototoxicity study and a photoallergy study conducted in 38 male and 62 female volunteers showed no contact sensitization of the delayed hypersensitivity type , no irritation , no phototoxicity and no photoallergenic potential due to Ketoconazole Cream 2 % .
Microbiology : Ketoconazole is a broad spectrum synthetic antifungal agent which inhibits the in vitro growth of the following common dermatophytes and yeasts by altering the permeability of the cell membrane : dermatophytes : Trichophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes , T . tonsurans , Microsporum canis , M . audouini , M . gypseum and Epidermophyton floccosum ; yeasts : Candida albicans , Malassezia ovale ( Pityrosporum ovale ) and C . tropicalis ; and the organism responsible for tinea versicolor , Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum orbiculare ) .
Only those organisms listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE Section have been proven to be clinically affected .
Development of resistance to ketoconazole has not been reported .
Mode of Action : In vitro studies suggest that ketoconazole impairs the synthesis of ergosterol , which is a vital component of fungal cell membranes .
It is postulated that the therapeutic effect of ketoconazole in seborrheic dermatitis is due to the reduction of M . ovale , but this has not yet been proven .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole Cream 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea corporis , tinea cruris and tinea pedis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes and Epidermophyton floccosum ; in the treatment of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor caused by Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum orbiculare ) ; in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis caused by Candida spp .
and in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole Cream 2 % is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to the active or excipient ingredients of this formulation .
WARNINGS Ketoconazole Cream 2 % is not for ophthalmic use .
Ketoconazole Cream 2 % contains sodium sulfite anhydrous , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General : If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Hepatitis ( 1 : 10 , 000 reported incidence ) and , at high doses , lowered testosterone and ACTH induced corticosteroid serum levels have been seen with orally administered ketoconazole ; these effects have not been seen with topical ketoconazole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : A long - term feeding study in Swiss Albino mice and in Wistar rats showed no evidence of oncogenic activity .
The dominant lethal mutation test in male and female mice revealed that single oral doses of ketoconazole as high as 80 mg / kg produced no mutation in any stage of germ cell development .
The Ames ' Salmonella microsomal activator assay was also negative .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C : Ketoconazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( syndactylia and oligodactylia ) in the rat when given orally in the diet at 80 mg / kg / day , ( 10 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ) .
However , these effects may be related to maternal toxicity , which was seen at this and higher dose levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketoconazole should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether Ketoconazole Cream 2 % administered topically could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 ( 5 . 0 % ) of 905 patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream 2 % and 5 ( 2 . 4 % ) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation , pruritus and stinging .
One of the patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream developed a painful allergic reaction .
In worldwide postmarketing experience , rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with Ketoconazole Cream or one of its excipients , namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cutaneous candidiasis , tinea corporis , tinea cruris , tinea pedis and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor : It is recommended that Ketoconazole Cream 2 % be applied once daily to cover the affected and immediate surrounding area .
Clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually require two weeks of treatment .
Patients with tinea pedis require six weeks of treatment .
Seborrheic dermatitis : Ketoconazole Cream 2 % should be applied to the affected area twice daily for four weeks or until clinical clearing .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketoconazole Cream 2 % is supplied as follows : 15 gram NDC 0168 - 0099 - 15 30 gram NDC 0168 - 0099 - 30 60 gram NDC 0168 - 0099 - 60 Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 I299C R11 / 11 # 39 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CONTAINER NDC 0168 - 0099 - 15 FOUGERA ® KETOCONAZOLE CREAM 2 % For dermatologic use only .
Rx only Contains ketoconazole 20 mg / g , propylene glycol , stearyl and cetyl alcohols , sorbitan monostearate , polysorbate 60 , isopropyl myristate , sodium sulfite anhydrous , polysorbate 80 and purified water .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CARTON NDC 0168 - 0099 - 15 Rx only FOUGERA ® KETOCONAZOLE CREAM 2 % For dermatologic use only .
Warning : Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
