WARNING This fixed combination drug is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension .
Hypertension requires therapy titrated to the individual patient .
If the fixed combination represents the dosage so determined , its use may be more convenient in patient management .
The treatment of hypertension is not static , but must be reevaluated as conditions in each patient warrant .
DESCRIPTION RENESE ® - R tablets combine polythiazide and reserpine , two antihypertensive agents with complementary properties .
Each blue , scored tablet of RENESE - R provides : Renese ( polythiazide ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
2 . 0 mg Reserpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 0 . 25 mg RENESE ( polythiazide ) is a member of the benzothiazide ( thiazide ) family of diuretic / antihypertensive agents .
It is designated chemically as 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - Benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide , 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - methyl - 3 - [ [ 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroethyl ) thio ] methyl ] - , 1 , 1 - dioxide with a molecular formula of C11H13ClF3N3O4S3 and a molecular weight of 439 . 87 .
Polythiazide is a white crystalline substance insoluble in water , but readily soluble in alkaline solution , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Reserpine , one of the alkaloids of Rauwolfia serpentina , has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Reserpine – which is administered orally , is insoluble in water , very slightly soluble in ether , l g in about 1800 mL alcohol and about 6 mL chloroform , slightly soluble in benzene , freely soluble in acetic acid .
It has a molecular weight of 608 . 69 and its molecular formula is C33H40N2O9 .
Reserpine is chemically designated as Yohimban - 16 - carboxylic acid , 11 , 17 - dimethoxy - 18 - [ ( 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxybenzoyl ) oxy ] - , methyl ester , ( 3β , 16β , 17α , 18β , 20α ) - .
It is a white or pale buff to slightly yellowish crystalline powder that is insoluble in water .
Inert Ingredients : FD & C Blue No . 1 ; dibasic calcium phosphate ; lactose ; magnesium stearate ; polyethylene glycol ; sodium lauryl sulfate ; starch ; vanillin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Polythiazide Renese ( polythiazide ) alone has demonstrated clinical effectiveness in lowering elevated blood pressure in patients without visible edema as well as in edematous hypertensive patients .
Its mechanism of action results in an interference with the renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic potency .
The mechanism whereby thiazides function in the control of hypertension is unknown .
Polythiazide is well absorbed following oral administration with diuresis beginning approximately 2 hours later .
Peak human plasma concentrations occur about 5 hours after ingestion .
Polythiazide is removed slowly thereafter with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 27 hours .
One - fifth of the drug is recovered unchanged in human urine ; the remainder is cleared via feces and as metabolites .
Animal studies indicate metabolism occurs by rupture of the thiadiazine ring and loss of the side chain .
Reserpine Reserpine has several complementary actions of benefit to the hypertensive patient , including a calming effect and a slowing of the pulse rate .
Depletion of norepinephrine from tissue receptor sites is thought to be responsible for the decrease in peripheral vascular resistance and subsequent fall in blood pressure .
Bradycardia is usually associated with this effect .
The tranquilizing effect of reserpine is apparently due to serotonin and catecholamine depletion in the brain .
Sympathetic inhibition produced by reserpine also may result in vasodilation and increased cutaneous blood flow with resulting flushing , feeling of warmth , or nasal congestion .
Increased parasympathomimetic activity may produce increased gastrointestinal motility , increased gastric acid secretion and miosis .
Reserpine is absorbed orally and is widely distributed in body tissues , especially adipose tissue .
A study in a small number of normal subjects who received a radioactively labeled 0 . 25 mg dose of reserpine showed a biphasic half - life of 4 . 5 hours during the first phase , and 11 . 3 days during the second phase .
The full therapeutic effects of reserpine may not be seen for 2 – 3 weeks .
Reserpine is extensively metabolized to inactive compounds .
It is slowly excreted via the urine and feces .
Reserpine crosses the blood - brain barrier and the placenta , and appears in cord blood .
Since polythiazide reduces or eliminates the sodium and fluid retention frequently associated with hypertension , it enhances the efficacy of reserpine in lowering elevated blood pressure .
RENESE - R often has been found to be more effective than equivalent doses of either agent alone .
Both the cardiovascular and central nervous system effects may persist following withdrawal of the drug .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension ( see box warning ) .
Usage in Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy ( however , see Precautions / Pregnancy section ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema – including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A . Related to polythiazide • Advanced renal or hepatic failure .
• Hypersensitivity to this or other sulfonamide derivatives .
B . Related to reserpine • Demonstrated hypersensitivity .
• Patients with a history of mental depression .
• Demonstrated peptic ulcer or ulcerative colitis .
WARNINGS Serum electrolyte determinations are especially indicated for patients with severe derangement of metabolic processes , e . g . , surgery , vomiting , or parenteral fluid therapy .
Electrolyte imbalance may be caused by certain diseases such as cirrhosis , or it may result from drug therapy , such as therapy with corticosteroids .
Patients with cirrhosis who are continually receiving RENESE - R should be observed carefully for the development of hepatic precoma or coma .
Indications of impending hepatic failure are tremor , confusion , drowsiness , and hepatic fetor .
Thiazides may precipitate kidney failure and uremia in patients with pre - existing renal pathology and impaired renal function .
Available information tends to implicate all oral dosage forms of potassium salts ingested in solid form with or without thiazides in the etiology of nonspecific , small bowel lesions consisting of ulceration with or without stenosis , causing obstruction , hemorrhage and perforation , and frequently requiring surgery .
Deaths due to these complications have been reported .
All oral dosage forms of potassium salts ingested in solid form should be used only when adequate dietary supplementation is not practical , and should be discontinued immediately if abdominal pain , distention , nausea , vomiting , or gastrointestinal bleeding occur .
RENESE - R does not itself contain enteric - coated potassium .
Electroshock therapy should not be given within one week of cessation of reserpine .
Reserpine may cause mental depression .
Recognition of depression may be difficult because this condition may often be disguised by somatic complaints ( Masked Depression ) .
The drug should be discontinued at first signs of depression such as despondency , early morning insomnia , loss of appetite , impotence , or self - deprecation .
Drug - induced depression may persist for several months after drug withdrawal and may be severe enough to result in suicide .
PRECAUTIONS General Polythiazide Since all diuretic agents may reduce serum levels of sodium , chloride , and potassium – especially with brisk diuresis or when used concurrently with steroids – patients should be observed regularly for early signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance , and serum electrolyte studies should be performed periodically .
Warning signs of possible electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause include fatigue , muscle cramps , gastrointestinal disturbances , lethargy , oliguria , and tachycardia .
In extreme cases , hypotension , shock , and coma may develop .
Frequently , serum electrolyte levels do not correlate with signs or symptoms of electrolyte imbalance .
Unduly restricted salt intake as well as concurrent administration of digitalis may exaggerate metabolic effects of hypokalemia .
A favorable ratio of potassium to sodium excretion lessens the possibility of hypokalemia .
However , should this occur or be suspected , foods with a high potassium content ( bananas , apricots , citrus fruits , prune juice , etc . ) should be given .
When necessary , oral potassium supplements may be administered .
If other antihypertensive agents are used concurrently , lower than usual doses of RENESE - R and of the other agents should be considered .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
Reserpine Since reserpine may increase gastric acid secretion , it should be used cautiously in patients with a history of peptic ulcer or ulcerative colitis .
Extreme caution is needed in patients with a history of mental depression , and reserpine should be discontinued at the first sign of depressive symptoms .
Parkinsonism and confusion have been encountered , particularly in psychiatric patients , and constitute an indication for withdrawal of the drug .
Caution should be exercised when treating patients with impairment of renal function , as lowered blood pressure may result in further decompensation and embarrassment of function .
Discontinue the drug one to two weeks prior to elective surgery since an unexpected degree of hypotension and bradycardia have been reported in patients receiving anesthetic agents concurrently with reserpine , probably due to a reduced responsiveness to norepinephrine .
For emergency surgical procedures vagal blocking agents may be given parenterally to prevent or reverse hypotension and / or bradycardia .
Reserpine may cause increased appetite and weight gain in some patients .
Information for Patients Since RENESE - R may increase urination , it is advisable to take it early during the day .
If stomach upset occurs , take the drug with food or milk .
Notify your physician if muscle weakness , cramps , nausea , or dizziness occur as these may indicate the loss of too much potassium from your body .
A few people who take this medicine may be more sensitive to sunlight than they are normally .
Avoid too much sun or use of a sunlamp until you see how you react .
RENESE - R may cause drowsiness .
Make sure you know how you react before driving , using machinery , or performing tasks that require alertness .
Notify your physician if changes in mood or sleep patterns occur .
Dizziness or lightheadedness may occur when getting up from a sitting or lying position .
Getting up slowly may help .
Notify your physician if the problem worsens .
Laboratory Tests Determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Drug Interactions Polythiazide Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs .
Hypokalemia may be more likely to develop during concomitant use of corticosteroids or ACTH .
Diuretic - induced hypokalemia may precipitate digitalis toxicity .
Thiazide drugs may augment the paralyzing actions of tubocurarine , and may decrease the arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine .
Extra precautions may be necessary in patients who may require these drugs or their derivatives , as in surgery .
Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic agents is frequently indicated during thiazide administration .
Indomethacin may partially antagonize the hypotensive effect of the thiazide diuretics .
Generally , do not give lithium with diuretics because they reduce lithiums renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Quinidine , a weak base , may have its half - life prolonged by concomitant administration of thiazide diuretics which alkalinize the urine .
Sulfonamides may potentiate the action of the thiazide diuretics , possibly by displacement from binding sites on plasma albumin .
Orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by the use of alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics with thiazide diuretics .
Reserpine Reserpine should be used cautiously with digitalis or quinidine as the concurrent use may enhance the appearance of arrhythmias .
Additive CNS depressant effects may occur when reserpine is administered concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates and alcohol .
Concomitant administration of reserpine and levodopa has been reported to reduce the patient ' s response to levodopa .
Reserpine should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa .
The effects of indirect - acting sympathomimetic amines such as ephedrine may be decreased .
Patients who are receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors may experience excitation and hypertension when reserpine is added .
The combination should be avoided .
Reserpine may add to the pharmacologic effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents ( i . e . , CNS depression and cardiovascular effects ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Polythiazide The thiazides may alter various laboratory test results .
These include all electrolytes , particularly potassium , BUN , glucose , and PBI .
Thiazides may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Like other thiazide diuretics , polythiazide may cause a rise in serum uric acid levels with or without overt symptoms of gout .
Reserpine Chronic administration results in a decrease in urinary catecholamines and vanilmandelic acid excretion .
Interference with colorimetric assay procedures for the determination of urinary 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids by the Glenn - Nelson technique and 17 - ketosteroids by the Holtorff Koch modification of the Zimmerman reaction have been reported .
Animal Tumorigenicity Although long - term studies in animals have not been conducted with RENESE - R , rodent studies have shown that reserpine is an animal tumorigen , causing an increased incidence of mammary fibroadenomas in female mice , malignant tumors of the seminal vesicles in male mice , and malignant adrenal medullary tumors in male rats .
These findings arose in 2 year studies in which the drug was administered in the feed at concentrations of 5 and 10 ppm — about 100 to 300 times the usual human dose .
The breast neoplasms are thought to be related to reserpine ' s prolactin - elevating effect .
Several other prolactin - elevating drugs have also been associated with an increased incidence of mammary neoplasia in rodents .
The extent to which these findings indicate a risk to humans is uncertain .
Tissue culture experiments show that about one - third of human breast tumors are prolactin - dependent in vitro , a factor of considerable importance if the use of the drug is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer .
The possibility of an increased risk of breast cancer in reserpine users has been studied extensively ; however , no firm conclusion has emerged .
Although a few epidemiologic studies have suggested a slightly increased risk ( less than twofold in all studies except one ) in women who have used reserpine , other studies of generally similar design have not confirmed this .
Epidemiologic studies conducted using other drugs ( neuroleptic agents ) that , like reserpine , increase prolactin levels and therefore would be considered rodent mammary carcinogens , have not shown an association between chronic administration of the drug and human mammary tumorigenesis .
While long - term clinical observation has not suggested such an association , the available evidence is considered too limited to be conclusive at this time .
An association of reserpine intake with pheochromocytoma or tumors of the seminal vesicles has not been explored .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with RENESE - R .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
It is also not known whether RENESE - R can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
RENESE - R should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
When polythiazide and reserpine are used in women of childbearing age , the potential benefits of this drug combination should be weighed against the possible hazards to the fetus .
The hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possible other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult .
Nursing Mothers Thiazides and reserpine appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from RENESE - R , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there is not enough systemic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Polythiazide The most common reactions associated with polythiazide therapy are weakness and dizziness , but seldom require cessation of therapy .
Weakness is reported in less than 3 % of patients receiving the drug , and dizziness is reported in less than 2 % of patients .
These can be overcome by reducing the dose or taking measures to improve electrolytic balance .
Other reactions , reported to occur in less than 1 % of patients , are : Gastrointestinal : nausea , gastrointestinal disturbances , reversible cholestatic jaundice , necrotizing angiitis , pancreatitis .
Dermatological : maculopapular skin rash , photosensitivity .
Central Nervous System : vertigo , paresthesia , fatigue , headache .
Cardiovascular : orthostatic hypotension .
EENT : xanthopsia .
Hematological : Leukopenia ( neutropenia ) , agranulocytosis , and aplastic anemia have been reported with the older thiazides but not with the newer compounds such as polythiazide .
Purpura ( with or without thrombocytopenia ) has been reported with polythiazide .
Reserpine The most common reactions associated with reserpine therapy , dizziness and drowsiness , are reported in less than 2 % of patients .
Reactions to reserpine are usually reversible and disappear when the drug is discontinued .
Other reactions , occurring in less than 1 % of patients on reserpine are : Gastrointestinal : hypersecretion , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , anorexia , dry mouth .
Dermatological : rash , pruritus , purpura .
Central Nervous System : depression , nervousness , paradoxical anxiety , nightmares , headache , and rare Parkinsonian syndrome to CNS sensitization manifested by deafness , glaucoma , uveitis , and optic atrophy .
Cardiovascular : angina - like symptoms , arrhythmias particularly when used concurrently with digitalis or quinidine , flushing of the skin , and bradycardia .
EENT : nasal congestion , miosis .
Sexual Difficulties : impotence or decreased libido .
OVERDOSAGE One case of RENESE - R overdosage is reported after ingestion of an unknown number of tablets .
Electrolyte replacement therapy was successful in treating the symptoms .
Polythiazide An overdose of Renese may cause electrolyte imbalance , manifested by fatigue , muscle weakness , cramps , gastrointestinal disturbances , lethargy , tachycardia , and / or other arrhythmias , and hypotension .
Should overdosage with Renese occur , electrolyte balance and adequate hydration should be maintained .
Gastric lavage is recommended followed by supportive treatment .
Where necessary , this may include intravenous dextrose and saline with potassium and other electrolyte therapy , administered with caution as indicated by laboratory testing at appropriate intervals .
Reserpine Signs of overdosage include CNS depression ranging from drowsiness to coma , bradycardia and hypotension , respiratory depression , hypothermia , diarrhea , vomiting , mental depression , skin flushing , miosis , and extrapyramidal signs such as stiffness and tremors .
Emesis or gastric lavage to remove unabsorbed drug is of benefit in conscious patients , even if several hours have elapsed since ingestion .
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Parasympathomimetic side effects usually can be controlled with small doses of atropine or other anticholinergics .
Evidence of motor dysfunction often can be controlled by drugs useful for parkinsonism .
Avoid vasopressor drugs ( except in cases of extreme hypotension ) and rapid intravenous infusions because of the uncertain cardiac status .
It is not known whether dialysis would be of benefit in treating cases of overdosage of RENESE - R .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As determined by individual titration ( see box warning ) .
Initial dosages of the combination should conform to those dosages of the individual components established during titration .
Maintenance dosages range from ½ tablet to 2 tablets daily .
Dosage of other antihypertensive agents , particularly ganglionic blockers , that are used concomitantly should be reduced .
HOW SUPPLIED RENESE - R tablets ( 2 mg polythiazide – 0 . 25 mg reserpine ) are available as blue scored tablets , tablet code 446 , in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0069 - 4460 - 66 ) and 1 , 000 ( NDC - 0069 - 4460 - 82 ) .
RENESE - R should be stored at room temperature .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container .
Rx only Distributed by : Pfizer Labs Division of Pfizer , Inc , NY , NY 10017 69 - 1200 - 00 - 3 September 1995
