ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Niacinamide 2 . 0 % , Adenosine 0 . 04 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Water , Propanediol , Glycerin , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate , Polyisobutene , Sorbitan Oleate , Caprylyl / Capryl Glucoside , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclohexasiloxane , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethiconol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Ethylhexyl Stearate , Trideceth - 6 , Titanium Dioxide ( CI 77891 ) , Aluminum Hydroxide , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Pediococcus Ferment Extract , Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Fragrance , Allantoin , Disodium EDTA , Butylene Glycol , Hedera Helix ( Ivy ) Extract , Origanum Vulgare Leaf Extract , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Leaf Extract , Salix Alba ( Willow ) Bark Extract , Lactobacillus / Soybean Ferment Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Cinnamomum Cassia Bark Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Alcohol , Epilobium Angustifolium Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Butylene Glycol , Imperata Cylindrica Root Extract , Opuntia Ficus - Indica Stem Extract , Adansonia Digitata Seed Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Titanium Dioxide ( CI 77891 ) , Aluminum Stearate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Alumina , Moringa Oleifera Seed Oil , Ceramide NP , Phytosphingosine , Hydrogenated Lecithin PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Brightening , Anti wrinkle WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Cosmetics should be discontinued if any of the following problems occur .
If you continue to use , please consult your dermatologist and others to make the symptoms worse .
1 ) If you have any abnormalities such as red spot , swelling itching , or irritation during use 2 ) If the applied areas the same as 1 ) due to direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not use this product in areas with scratches , eczema , or dermatitis .
3 .
Storage and Handling Precautions 1 ) Always close the cap after use 2 ) Please keep out of reach of infants and children 3 ) Do not store in hot or in daylight .
4 .
If the infant or child is mistakenly eaten , consult a medical doctor immediately and take emergency measures .
5 .
Over time , there may be sedimentation and slight discoloration due to the inclusion of natural ingredients , but threre is no abnormality inthe product .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Please keep out of reach of infants and children Uses Uses : Helps brighten skin tone .
Helps improve wrinkle problem .
Directions Directions : After cleansing or applying our ampoule , take an appropriate amount of this product and spread evenly on the skin .
* Over time , there may be sedimentation and slight discoloration due to the inclusion of natural ingredients , but there is no abnormality in the product .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
