DESCRIPTION Amlodipine besylate is the besylate salt of amlodipine , a long - acting calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine besylate is chemically described as 3 - Ethyl - 5 - methyl ( ± ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - aminoethoxy ) methyl ] - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate , monobenzene - sulphonate .
Its molecular formula is C20H25CIN2O5 • C6H6O3S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amlodipine besylate is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 567 . 1 .
It is slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Amlodipine besylate tablets are formulated as white tablets equivalent to 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg or 10 mg of amlodipine for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , amlodipine besylate , each tablet contains the following Inactive Ingredients : dibasic calcium phosphate ( anhydrous ) , butylated hydroxytoluene , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow - channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
The precise mechanisms by which amlodipine relieves angina have not been fully delineated , but are thought to include the following : Exertional Angina In patients with exertional angina , amlodipine reduces the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works and reduces the rate pressure product , and thus myocardial oxygen demand , at any given level of exercise .
Vasospastic Angina Amlodipine has been demonstrated to block constriction and restore blood flow in coronary arteries and arterioles in response to calcium , potassium epinephrine , serotonin , and thromboxane A2 analog in experimental animal models and in human coronary vessels in vitro .
This inhibition of coronary spasm is responsible for the effectiveness of amlodipine in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ' s or variant ) angina .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After oral administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 90 % .
The bioavailability of amlodipine is not altered by the presence of food .
Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism with 10 % of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites excreted in the urine .
Ex vivo studies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 - 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with renal failure may therefore receive the usual initial dose .
Elderly patients and patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 - 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
A similar increase in AUC was observed in patients with moderate to severe heart failure .
Pediatric Patients Sixty - two hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years received doses of amlodipine between 1 . 25 mg and 20 mg .
Weight - adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values in adults .
Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamics Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
Although the acute intravenous administration of amlodipine decreases arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in hemodynamic studies of patients with chronic stable angina , chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical trials did not lead to clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressures in normotensive patients with angina .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 - 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 - 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / - 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when co - administered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normals or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Electrophysiologic Effects Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In patients with chronic stable angina , intravenous administration of 10 mg did not significantly alter A - H and H - V conduction and sinus node recovery time after pacing .
Similar results were obtained in patients receiving amlodipine and concomitant beta - blockers .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
In clinical trials with angina patients alone , amlodipine besylate therapy did not alter electrocardiographic intervals or produce higher degrees of AV blocks .
CLINICAL STUDIES Effects in Hypertension Adult Patients The antihypertensive efficacy of amlodipine has been demonstrated in a total of 15 double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies involving 800 patients on amlodipine and 538 on placebo .
Once daily administration produced statistically significant placebo - corrected reductions in supine and standing blood pressures at 24 hours postdose , averaging about 12 / 6 mmHg in the standing position and 13 / 7 mmHg in the supine position in patients with mild to moderate hypertension .
Maintenance of the blood pressure effect over the 24 - hour dosing interval was observed , with little difference in peak and trough effect .
Tolerance was not demonstrated in patients studied for up to 1 year .
The 3 parallel , fixed dose , dose response studies showed that the reduction in supine and standing blood pressures was dose - related within the recommended dosing range .
Effects on diastolic pressure were similar in young and older patients .
The effect on systolic pressure was greater in older patients , perhaps because of greater baseline systolic pressure .
Effects were similar in black patients and in white patients .
Pediatric Patients Two hundred sixty - eight hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years were randomized first to amlodipine 2 . 5 or 5 mg once daily for 4 weeks and then randomized again to the same dose or to placebo for another 4 weeks .
Patients receiving 5 mg at the end of 8 weeks had lower blood pressure than those secondarily randomized to placebo .
The magnitude of the treatment effect is difficult to interpret , but it is probably less than 5 mmHg systolic on the 5 mg dose .
Adverse events were similar to those seen in adults .
Effects in Chronic Stable Angina The effectiveness of 5 to 10 mg / day of amlodipine in exercise - induced angina has been evaluated in 8 placebo - controlled , double - blind clinical trials of up to 6 weeks duration involving 1038 patients ( 684 amlodipine , 354 placebo ) with chronic stable angina .
In 5 of the 8 studies significant increases in exercise time ( bicycle or treadmill ) were seen with the 10 mg dose .
Increases in symptom - limited exercise time averaged 12 . 8 % ( 63 sec ) for amlodipine 10 mg , and averaged 7 . 9 % ( 38 sec ) for amlodipine 5 mg .
Amlodipine 10 mg also increased time to 1 mm ST segment deviation in several studies and decreased angina attack rate .
The sustained efficacy of amlodipine in angina patients has been demonstrated over long - term dosing .
In patients with angina there were no clinically significant reductions in blood pressures ( 4 / 1 mmHg ) or changes in heart rate ( + 0 . 3 bpm ) .
Effects in Vasospastic Angina In a double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 4 weeks duration in 50 patients , amlodipine therapy decreased attacks by approximately 4 / week compared with a placebo decrease of approximately 1 / week ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Two of 23 amlodipine and 7 of 27 placebo patients discontinued from the study due to lack of clinical improvement .
Effects in Documented Coronary Artery Disease In PREVENT , 825 patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease were randomized to amlodipine besylate tablets ( 5 - 10 mg once daily ) or placebo and followed for 3 years .
Although the study did not show significance on the primary objective of change in coronary luminal diameter as assessed by quantitative coronary angiography , the data suggested a favorable outcome with respect to fewer hospitalizations for angina and revascularization procedures in patients with CAD .
CAMELOT enrolled 1318 patients with CAD recently documented by angiography , without left main coronary disease and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % .
Patients ( 76 % males , 89 % Caucasian , 93 % enrolled at US sites , 89 % with a history of angina , 52 % without PCI , 4 % with PCI and no stent , and 44 % with a stent ) were randomized to double - blind treatment with either amlodipine besylate tablets ( 5 - 10 mg once daily ) or placebo in addition to standard care that included aspirin ( 89 % ) , statins ( 83 % ) , beta - blockers ( 74 % ) , nitroglycerin ( 50 % ) , anti - coagulants ( 40 % ) , and diuretics ( 32 % ) , but excluded other calcium channel blockers .
The mean duration of follow - up was 19 months .
The primary endpoint was the time to first occurrence of one of the following events : hospitalization for angina pectoris , coronary revascularization , myocardial infarction , cardiovascular death , resuscitated cardiac arrest , hospitalization for heart failure , stroke / TIA , or peripheral vascular disease .
A total of 110 ( 16 . 6 % ) and 151 ( 23 . 1 % ) first events occurred in the amlodipine besylate tablet and placebo groups respectively for a hazard ratio of 0 . 691 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 540 - 0 . 884 , p = 0 . 003 ) .
The primary endpoint is summarized in Figure 1 below .
The outcome of this study was largely derived from the prevention of hospitalizations for angina and the prevention of revascularization procedures ( see Table 1 ) .
Effects in various subgroups are shown in Figure 2 .
In a angiographic substudy ( n = 274 ) conducted within CAMELOT , there was no significant difference between amlodipine and placebo on the change of atheroma volume in the coronary artery as assessed by intravascular ultrasound .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier analysis of composite clinical outcomes for amlodipine versus placebo [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 – Effects on primary endpoint of amlodipine versus placebo across sub - groups [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 1 below summarizes the significant clinical outcomes from the composites of the primary endpoint .
The other components of the primary endpoint including cardiovascular death , resuscitated cardiac arrest , myocardial infarction , hospitalization for heart failure , stroke / TIA , or peripheral vascular disease did not demonstrate a significant difference between amlodipine and placebo .
Table 1 .
Incidence of Significant Clinical Outcomes for CAMELOT Clinical Outcomes N ( % ) Amlodipine ( N = 663 ) Placebo ( N = 655 ) Risk Reduction ( p - value ) * Total patients with these events Composite CV Endpoint 110 ( 16 . 6 ) 151 ( 23 . 1 ) 31 % ( 0 . 003 ) Hospitalization for Angina * 51 ( 7 . 7 ) 84 ( 12 . 8 ) 42 % ( 0 . 002 ) Coronary Revascularization * 78 ( 11 . 8 ) 103 ( 15 . 7 ) 27 % ( 0 . 033 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Studies in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8 - 12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II / III heart failure , involving a total of 697 patients .
In these studies , there was no evidence of worsened heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance , NYHA classification , symptoms , or left ventricular ejection fraction .
In a long - term ( follow - up at least 6 months , mean 13 . 8 months ) placebo - controlled mortality / morbidity study of amlodipine 5 to 10 mg in 1153 patients with NYHA classes III ( n = 931 ) or IV ( n = 222 ) heart failure on stable doses of diuretics , digoxin , and ACE inhibitors , amlodipine had no effect on the primary endpoint of the study which was the combined endpoint of all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity ( as defined by life - threatening arrhythmia , acute myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for worsened heart failure ) , or on NYHA classification , or symptoms of heart failure .
Total combined all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity events were 222 / 571 ( 39 % ) for patients on amlodipine and 246 / 583 ( 42 % ) for patients on placebo ; the cardiac morbid events represented about 25 % of the endpoints in the study .
Another study ( PRAISE - 2 ) randomized patients with NYHA class III ( 80 % ) or IV ( 20 % ) heart failure without clinical symptoms or objective evidence of underlying ischemic disease , on stable doses of ACE inhibitor ( 99 % ) , digitalis ( 99 % ) and diuretics ( 99 % ) , to placebo ( n = 827 ) or amlodipine ( n = 827 ) and followed them for a mean of 33 months .
There was no statistically significant difference between amlodipine and placebo in the primary endpoint of all cause mortality ( 95 % confidence limits from 8 % reduction to 29 % increase on amlodipine ) .
With amlodipine there were more reports of pulmonary edema .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 .
Hypertension Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
2 .
Coronary Artery Disease ( CAD ) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina .
Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Vasospastic Angina ( Prinzmetal ' s or Variant Angina ) Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
Amlodipine may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal drugs .
Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % , amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization due to angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Amlodipine is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine .
WARNINGS Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Rarely , patients , particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease , have developed documented increased frequency , duration and / or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated .
PRECAUTIONS General Since the vasodilation induced by amlodipine is gradual in onset , acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration .
Nonetheless , caution , as with any other peripheral vasodilator , should be exercised when administering amlodipine , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Use in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure In general , calcium channel blockers should be used with caution in patients with heart failure .
Amlodipine ( 5 to 10 mg per day ) has been studied in a placebo - controlled trial of 1153 patients with NYHA Class III or IV heart failure ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) on stable doses of ACE inhibitor , digoxin , and diuretics .
Follow - up was at least 6 months , with a mean of about 14 months .
There was no overall adverse effect on survival or cardiac morbidity ( as defined by life - threatening arrhythmia , acute myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for worsened heart failure ) .
Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8 - 12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II / III heart failure , involving a total of 697 patients .
In these studies , there was no evidence of worsened heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance , NYHA classification , symptoms , or LVEF .
Beta - Blocker Withdrawal Amlodipine is not a beta - blocker and therefore gives no protection against the dangers of abrupt beta - blocker withdrawal ; any such withdrawal should be by gradual reduction of the dose of beta - blocker .
Patients with Hepatic Failure Since amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function , caution should be exercised when administering amlodipine to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
Effect of other agents on amlodipine CIMETIDINE : Coadministration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
GRAPEFRUIT JUICE : Coadministration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
MAALOX ( antacid ) : Coadministration of the antacid Maalox with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
SILDENAFIL : A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil ( Viagra ® ) in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine .
When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
Effect of amlodipine on other agents ATORVASTATIN : Coadministration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
DIGOXIN : Coadministration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
ETHANOL ( alcohol ) : Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine besylate had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
WARFARIN : Coadministration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
In clinical trials , amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics , beta - blockers , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , long - acting nitrates , sublingual nitroglycerin , digoxin , warfarin , non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , antibiotics , and oral hypoglycemic drugs .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 amlodipine mg / kg / day showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine / day * .
For the rat , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dose * .
Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( 8 times * the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Category C No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( respectively 8 times * and 23 times * the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
However , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
There are no adequate and wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women .
Amlodipine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
* Based on patient weight of 50 kg .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether amlodipine is excreted in human milk .
In the absence of this information , it is recommended that nursing be discontinued while amlodipine is administered .
Pediatric Use The effect of amlodipine on blood pressure in patients less than 6 years of age is not known .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of amlodipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase of AUC of approximately 40 - 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
In general , treatment with amlodipine was well - tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily .
Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine were of mild or moderate severity .
In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine ( N = 1730 ) in doses up to 10 mg to placebo ( N = 1250 ) , discontinuation of amlodipine due to adverse reactions was required in only about 1 . 5 % of patients and was not significantly different from placebo ( about 1 % ) .
The most common side effects are headache and edema .
The incidence ( % ) of side effects which occurred in a dose related manner are as follows : Adverse Event 2 . 5 mg N = 275 5 mg N = 296 10 mg N = 268 Placebo N = 520 Edema 1 . 8 3 . 0 10 . 8 0 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 1 3 . 4 3 . 4 1 . 5 Flushing 0 . 7 1 . 4 2 . 6 0 . 0 Palpitation 0 . 7 1 . 4 4 . 5 0 . 6 Other adverse experiences which were not clearly dose related but which were reported with an incidence greater than 1 % in placebo - controlled clinical trials include the following : Placebo - Controlled Studies Amlodipine ( % ) ( N = 1730 ) PLACEBO ( % ) ( N = 1250 ) Headache 7 . 3 7 . 8 Fatigue 4 . 5 2 . 8 Nausea 2 . 9 1 . 9 Abdominal Pain 1 . 6 0 . 3 Somnolence 1 . 4 0 . 6 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug and dose related , there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table : Adverse Event Amlodipine Placebo Male = % ( N = 1218 ) Female = % ( N = 512 ) Male = % ( N = 914 ) Female = % ( N = 336 ) Edema 5 . 6 14 . 6 1 . 4 5 . 1 Flushing 1 . 5 4 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 9 Palpitations 1 . 4 3 . 3 0 . 9 0 . 9 Somnolence 1 . 3 1 . 6 0 . 8 0 . 3 The following events occurred in < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : arrhythmia ( including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , chest pain , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , syncope , tachycardia , postural dizziness , postural hypotension , vasculitis .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dyspepsia , ** dysphagia , diarrhea , flatulence , pancreatitis , vomiting , gingival hyperplasia .
General : allergic reaction , asthenia , ** back pain , hot flushes , malaise , pain , rigors , weight gain , weight decrease .
Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , muscle cramps , ** myalgia .
Psychiatric : sexual dysfunction ( male ** and female ) , insomnia , nervousness , depression , abnormal dreams , anxiety , depersonalization .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , ** epistaxis .
Skin and Appendages : angioedema , erythema multiforme , pruritus , ** rash , ** rash erythematous , rash maculopapular .
** These events occurred in less than 1 % in placebo - controlled trials , but the incidence of these side effects was between 1 % and 2 % in all multiple dose studies .
Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye pain , tinnitus .
Urinary System : micturition frequency , micturition disorder , nocturia .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Hemopoietic : leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
The following events occurred in < 0 . 1 % of patients : cardiac failure , pulse irregularity , extrasystoles , skin discoloration , urticaria , skin dryness , alopecia , dermatitis , muscle weakness , twitching , ataxia , hypertonia , migraine , cold and clammy skin , apathy , agitation , amnesia , gastritis , increased appetite , loose stools , coughing , rhinitis , dysuria , polyuria , parosmia , taste perversion , abnormal visual accommodation , and xerophthalmia .
Other reactions occurred sporadically and cannot be distinguished from medications or concurrent disease states such as myocardial infarction and angina .
Amlodipine therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in serum potassium , serum glucose , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
In the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clinical Studies Studies in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease ) the adverse event profile was similar to that reported previously ( see above ) , with the most common adverse event being peripheral edema .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Amlodipine has been used safely in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , well - compensated congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , and abnormal lipid profiles .
OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of amlodipine maleate equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional over - dosage of amlodipine is limited .
Reports of intentional overdosage include a patient who ingested 250 mg and was asymptomatic and was not hospitalized ; another ( 120 mg ) was hospitalized , underwent gastric lavage and remained normotensive ; the third ( 105 mg ) was hospitalized and had hypotension ( 90 / 50 mmHg ) which normalized following plasma expansion .
A case of accidental drug overdose has been documented in a 19 - month - old male who ingested 30 mg amlodipine ( about 2 mg / kg ) .
During the emergency room presentation , vital signs were stable with no evidence of hypotension , but a heart rate of 180 bpm .
Ipecac was administered 3 . 5 hours after ingestion and on subsequent observation ( overnight ) no sequelae were noted .
If massive overdose should occur , active cardiac and respiratory monitoring should be instituted .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids should be initiated .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) should be considered with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
Intravenous calcium gluconate may help to reverse the effects of calcium entry blockade .
As amlodipine is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine is 5 mg once daily with a maximum dose of 10 mg once daily .
Small , fragile , or elderly individuals , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2 . 5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine to other antihypertensive therapy .
Dosage should be adjusted according to each patient ' s need .
In general , titration should proceed over 7 to 14 days so that the physician can fully assess the patient ' s response to each dose level .
Titration may proceed more rapidly , however , if clinically warranted , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg , with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS section for information related to dosage and side effects .
The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 - 10 mg once daily .
In clinical studies the majority of patients required 10 mg ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ) .
Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 - 17 years is 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg once daily .
Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .
Coadministration with Other Antihypertensive and / or Antianginal Drugs Amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazides , ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers , long - acting nitrates , and / or sublingual nitroglycerin .
HOW SUPPLIED Amlodipine besylate tablets , 2 . 5 mg are white to off - white colored , diamond - shaped , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed with 568 on one side and plain on the other side available as follows : Bottles of 90 NDC 57664 - 568 - 99 Bottles of 100 NDC 57664 - 568 - 88 Bottles of 500 NDC 57664 - 568 - 13 Bottles of 1000 NDC 57664 - 568 - 18 Amlodipine besylate tablets , 5 mg are white to off - white colored , octagonal , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed with 569 on one side and plain on the other side available as follows : Bottles of 90 NDC 57664 - 569 - 99 Bottles of 100 NDC 57664 - 569 - 88 Bottles of 500 NDC 57664 - 569 - 13 Bottles of 1000 NDC 57664 - 569 - 18 Amlodipine besylate tablets , 10 mg are white to off - white colored , circular , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed with 570 on one side and plain on the other side available as follows : Bottles of 90 NDC 57664 - 570 - 99 Bottles of 100 NDC 57664 - 570 - 88 Bottles of 500 NDC 57664 - 570 - 13 Bottles of 1000 NDC 57664 - 570 - 18 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture Viagra ® is a registered trademark of Pfizer .
Maalox ® is a registered trademark of Novartis .
Manufactured by : Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories , Ltd .
1150 Elijah McCoy Drive Detroit , MI 48202 C . S . No . : 5598T03 SUPPLEMENTAL PATIENT MATERIAL INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS TAKING AMLODIPINE BESYLATE TABLETS Read this information carefully before you start amlodipine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions about amlodipine , ask your doctor .
Your doctor will know if amlodipine is right for you .
What is amlodipine ?
Amlodipine is a type of medicine known as a calcium channel blocker ( CCB ) .
It is used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) and a type of chest pain called angina .
It can be used by itself or with other medicines to treat these conditions .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension ) High blood pressure comes from blood pushing too hard against your blood vessels .
Amlodipine relaxes your blood vessels which lets your blood flow more easily and helps lower your blood pressure .
Drugs that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
Angina Angina is a pain or discomfort that keeps coming back when part of your heart does not get enough blood .
Angina feels like a pressing or squeezing pain , usually in your chest under the breastbone .
Sometimes you can feel it in your shoulders , arms , neck , jaws , or back .
Amlodipine can relieve this pain .
Who should not use amlodipine ?
Do not use amlodipine if you are allergic to amlodipine , ( the active ingredient in amlodipine ) , or to the inactive ingredients .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you a list of these ingredients .
What should I tell my doctor before taking amlodipine ?
Tell your doctor about any prescription and non - prescription medicines you are taking , including natural or herbal remedies .
Tell your doctor if you : • ever had heart disease • ever had liver problems • are pregnant , or plan to become pregnant .
Your doctor will decide if amlodipine is the best treatment for you .
• are breastfeeding .
Do not breast feed while taking amlodipine .
You can stop breastfeeding or take a different medicine .
How should I take amlodipine ?
• Take amlodipine once a day , with or without food .
You can take amlodipine with most drinks , including grapefruit juice .
• It may be easier to take your dose if you do it at the same time every day , such as with breakfast , dinner , or at bedtime .
Do not take more than one dose of amlodipine at a time .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not take amlodipine if it has been more than 12 hours since you missed your last dose .
Wait and take the next dose at your regular time .
• Other medicines : You can use nitroglycerin and amlodipine together .
If you take nitroglycerin for angina , don ’ t stop taking it while you are taking amlodipine .
• While you are taking amlodipine , do not stop taking your other prescription medicines , including any other blood pressure medicines , without talking to your doctor .
• If you took too much amlodipine , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking amlodipine ?
• Do not breastfeed .
It is not known if amlodipine will pass through your milk .
• Do not start any new prescription or non - prescription medicines or supplements , unless you check with your doctor first .
What are the possible side effects of amlodipine ?
Amlodipine may cause the following side effects .
Most side effects are mild or moderate : • headache • swelling of your legs or ankles • tiredness , extreme sleepiness • stomach pain , nausea • dizziness • flushing ( hot or warm feeling in your face ) • arrhythmia ( irregular heartbeat ) • heart palpitations ( very fast heartbeat ) It is rare , but when you first start amlodipine or increase your dose , you may have a heart attack or your angina may get worse .
If that happens , call your doctor right away or go directly to a hospital emergency room .
Tell your doctor if you are concerned about any side effects you experience .
These are not all the possible side effects of amlodipine .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store amlodipine ?
Keep amlodipine away from children .
Store amlodipine tablets at room temperature ( between 59 and 86 degrees Fahrenheit ) .
Keep amlodipine out of the light .
Do not store in the bathroom .
Keep amlodipine in a dry place .
General advice about amlodipine Sometimes , doctors will prescribe a medicine for a condition that is not written in the patient information leaflets .
Only use amlodipine the way your doctor told you to .
Do not give amlodipine to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about amlodipine .
Manufactured by : CARACO PHARMACEUTICAL LABORATORIES , LTD .
DETROIT , MI 48202
