Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Antiseptic Skin Sanitizer Use For preparation of skin pre and post surgery Helps reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings • Single use only • Do not freeze • For external use only • Do not use in ears , eyes or mouth • Use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of contact , flush eyes with water • Stop use and ask a doctor if skin redness or irritation develops • If swallowed , get medical help immediately Keep out of reach of children Directions DO NOT MICROWAVE Product and packaging are not sterile .
Follow your hospital policy for skin preparation with non - sterile products .
Using sterile scissors , cut off end seal of satchel .
Transfer contents onto prep table . To reduce the risk of cloth contamination , avoid contact between cloths and the outside of package .
Use first cloth to prepare the skin area indicated for a moist or dry site , making certain to keep the second cloth where it will not be contaminated .
Use the second cloth to prepare larger areas .
For dry surgical sites such as abdomen or arm , use one cloth to cleanse each 5 in .
x 5 in .
area ( approx .
161 sq .
cm ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting the treatment area .
Discard cloth .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
For moist surgical sites such as inguinal fold , use one cloth to cleanse 2 in .
x 5 in .
( approx .
65 sq . cm ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting the treatment area .
Discard cloth .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
Discard each cloth after single use .
After satchel has been opened , discard any unused cloths .
Other information Store product flat and between 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) Avoid excessive heat above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadenis leaf extract , Aqua , Citric Acid , Caprylyl Glucoside , Laureth - 4 , Polyhexanide , Phenoxyethanol , Triethoxysilylpropyl Steardimonium Chloride .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
