WARNING TARDIVE DYSKINESIA • Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
There is no known treatment for TD .
The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD .
In some patients , symptoms may lessen or resolve after Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is stopped [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Avoid treatment with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer - term use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA • Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible .
There is no known treatment for TD .
The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage .
( 5 . 1 ) • Discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD .
( 5 . 1 ) • Avoid treatment with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for longer than 12 weeks because of the risk of developing TD with longer - term use .
( 5 . 1 , 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is indicated in adults for the : • Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
• Relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) .
Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms and the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is a dopamine - 2 ( D2 ) antagonist indicated in adults for : Treatment of symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) in adults with who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
Relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) .
Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms and the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates .
( 1 , 8 . 4 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD The recommended dosage is 10 mg to 15 mg up to four times daily at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime for 4 to 12 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Gastric Stasis ) The recommended dosage is 10 mg dose four times daily at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime for 2 to 8 weeks .
( 2 . 3 ) Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations • See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions for elderly patients , patients with moderate or severe hepatic or renal impairment , and cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Avoid treatment with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer - term use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Take on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before eating [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Do not repeat dose if inadvertently taken with food .
• Remove each dose from the packaging just prior to taking .
Handle the tablet with dry hands and place on the tongue .
If the tablet should break or crumble while handling , discard and remove a new tablet .
• Place the tablet on the tongue and allow it to disintegrate ( takes approximately one minute ) and swallow the granules without water [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage for GERD Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets may be administered continuously or intermittently in patients with symptomatic GERD who fail to respond to conventional therapy : Continuous Dosing The recommended adult dosage of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is 10 to 15 mg four times daily for 4 to 12 weeks .
The treatment duration is determined by endoscopic response .
Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime .
The maximum recommended daily dosage is 60 mg .
Table 1 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) , in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute , in cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers , and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Intermittent Dosing If symptoms only occur intermittently or at specific times of the day , administer Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in single dose up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation .
Consider dosage reductions for the populations and situations in Table 1 .
Table 1 Recommended Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets Dosage in Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 to 15 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 60 mg Mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) Elderly patients1 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) , or 10 mg taken three times daily 30 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] Patients with End - Stage Renal Disease ( ESRD ) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) or 10 mg twice daily 20 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ; therefore , consider a lower starting dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 to 15 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability .
2 . 3 Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Gastric Stasis ) The recommended adult dosage for the relief of symptoms associated with diabetic gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) is 10 mg four times daily for 2 to 8 eight weeks , depending on symptomatic response .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets treatment for greater than 12 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administer the dosage at least 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime .
The maximum recommended daily dosage is 40 mg .
Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) , in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute , in cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) poor metabolizers , and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors .
If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take oral Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets tablets , consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days ( see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection ) .
After patients are able to take oral therapy , switch to Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets tablets .
Table 2 Recommended Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets Dosage in Patients with Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 40 mg Mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] 5 mg1 four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B or C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily ( thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime ) 20 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] Patients with End - Stage Renal Disease ( ESRD ) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] 5 mg twice daily 10 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ; therefore , consider a lower dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : • 5 mg Tablets : Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet , debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 581 " on the other side .
• 10 mg Tablets : Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet , debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 580 " on the other side .
Orally Disintegrating Tablets : 5 mg and 10 mg metoclopramide .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is contraindicated : • In patients with a history of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) or a dystonic reaction to metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
• When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( e . g . , in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage , mechanical obstruction , or perforation ) .
• In patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas .
Reglan may cause a hypertensive / pheochromocytoma crisis , probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• In patients with epilepsy .
Reglan may increase the frequency and severity of seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• In patients with hypersensitivity to metoclopramide .
Reactions have included laryngeal and glossal angioedema and bronchospasm [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• History of TD or dystonic reaction to metoclopramide ( 4 ) • When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( 4 ) • Pheochromocytoma , catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas ( 4 ) • Epilepsy ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to metoclopramide ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tardive Dyskinesia ( TD ) , Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms ( EPS ) , and Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) : Avoid concomitant use of other drugs known to cause TD / EPS / NMS and avoid use in patients with Parkinson ' s disease .
If symptoms occur , discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and seek immediate medical attention .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) • Depression and suicidal ideation / suicide : Avoid use .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Tardive Dyskinesia Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face or tongue , and sometimes of the trunk and / or extremities .
Movements may be choreoathetoic in appearance .
The risk of developing TD and the likelihood that TD will become irreversible increases with the duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage .
An analysis of utilization patterns showed that about 20 % of patients who used metoclopramide took it for longer than 12 weeks .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than the recommended 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing TD .
Additionally , the risk of developing TD is increased among the elderly , especially elderly women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] , and in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Due to the risk of developing TD , avoid treatment with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for longer than 12 weeks and reduce the dosage in elderly patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets immediately in patients who develop signs and symptoms of TD .
There is no known effective treatment for established cases of TD , although in some patients TD may remit , partially or completely , within several weeks to months after Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is withdrawn .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets itself may suppress , or partially suppress , the signs of TD , thereby masking the underlying disease process .
The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long - term course of TD is unknown .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is contraindicated in patients with a history of TD [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients receiving other drugs that can cause TD ( e . g . , antipsychotics ) .
5 . 2 Other Extrapyramidal Symptoms In addition to TD , metoclopramide may cause other extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , parkinsonian symptoms , and motor restlessness .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur and to discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• Extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , such as acute dystonic reactions , occurred in patients treated with metoclopramide dosages of 30 to 40 mg daily .
Such reactions occurred more frequently in adults less than 30 years of age and at higher than recommended dosages .
EPS occurred more frequently in pediatric patients compared to adults ( Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is not approved for use in pediatric patients ) .
Symptoms can occur in the first 24 to 48 hours after starting metoclopramide .
Symptoms included involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus .
Rarely , dystonic reactions were present as stridor and dyspnea , possibly due to laryngospasm .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride or benztropine mesylate may be used to treat these adverse reactions .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients receiving other drugs that can cause EPS ( e . g . , antipsychotics ) .
• Parkinsonism symptoms ( bradykinesia , tremor , cogwheel rigidity , mask - like facies ) have occurred after starting metoclopramide , more commonly within the first 6 months , but also after longer periods .
Symptoms generally have subsided within 2 to 3 months following discontinuation of metoclopramide .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients with Parkinson ' s disease and other patients being treated with antiparkinsonian drugs due to potential exacerbation of symptoms .
Avoid treatment with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for more than 12 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Motor restlessness ( akathisia ) has developed and consisted of feelings of anxiety , agitation , jitteriness , and insomnia , as well as inability to sit still , pacing , and foot tapping .
If symptoms resolve , consider restarting at a lower dosage .
5 . 3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome Metoclopramide may cause a potentially fatal symptom complex called Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS has been reported in association with metoclopramide overdosage and concomitant treatment with another drug associated with NMS .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in patients receiving other drugs associated with NMS , including typical and atypical antipsychotics .
Clinical manifestations of NMS include hyperthermia , muscle rigidity , altered mental status , and manifestations of autonomic instability ( irregular pulse or blood pressure , tachycardia , diaphoresis and cardiac arrhythmias ) .
Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase , myoglobinuria ( rhabdomyolysis ) , and acute renal failure .
Patients with such symptoms should be evaluated immediately .
In the diagnostic evaluation , consider the presence of other serious medical illness ( e . g . , pneumonia , systemic infection ) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , malignant hyperthermia , drug fever , serotonin syndrome and primary central nervous system pathology .
Management of NMS includes : • Immediate discontinuation of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring .
• Treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
5 . 4 Depression Depression has occurred in metoclopramide - treated patients with and without a history of depression .
Symptoms have included suicidal ideation and suicide .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets use in patients with a history of depression .
5 . 5 Hypertension Metoclopramide may elevate blood pressure .
In one study in hypertensive patients , intravenously administered metoclopramide was shown to release catecholamines ; hence , avoid use in patients with hypertension or in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors [ see Drugs Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
There are also clinical reports of hypertensive crises in some patients with undiagnosed pheochromocytoma .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine - releasing paragangliomas [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in any patient with a rapid rise in blood pressure .
5 . 6 Fluid Retention Because metoclopramide produces a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , patients with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure may be at risk of developing fluid retention and volume overload .
Discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets if any of these adverse reactions occur .
5 . 7 Hyperprolactinemia As with other dopamine D2 antagonists , metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels .
Hyperprolactinemia may suppress hypothalamic GnRH , resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion .
This , in turn , may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients .
Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence have been reported with prolactin - elevating drugs , including metoclopramide .
Hyperprolactinemia may potentially stimulate prolactin - dependent breast cancer .
However , some clinical studies and epidemiology studies have not shown an association between administration of dopamine D2 antagonists and tumorigenesis in humans [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Effects on the Ability to Drive and Operate Machinery Metoclopramide may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Concomitant use of central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants or drugs associated with EPS may increase this effect ( e . g . , alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , and anxiolytics ) .
Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets or the interacting drug , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections of the labeling : • Tardive dyskinesia [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Other extrapyramidal effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Fluid retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hyperprolactinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Metoclopramide The following adverse reactions have been identified from clinical studies or postmarketing reports of metoclopramide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions ( in approximately 10 % of patients receiving 10 mg of metoclopramide four times daily ) were restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude .
In general , the incidence of adverse reactions correlated with the dosage and duration of metoclopramide administration .
Adverse reactions , especially those involving the nervous system , occurred after stopping metoclopramide including dizziness , nervousness , and headaches .
Central Nervous System Disorders • Tardive dyskinesia , acute dystonic reactions , drug - induced parkinsonism , akathisia , and other extrapyramidal symptoms • Convulsive seizures • Hallucinations • Restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude occurred in approximately 10 % of patients who received 10 mg four times daily .
Insomnia , headache , confusion , dizziness , or depression with suicidal ideation occurred less frequently • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome , serotonin syndrome ( in combination with serotonergic agents ) Endocrine Disorders : Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone .
Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia Cardiovascular Disorders : Acute congestive heart failure , possible atrioventricular block , hypotension , hypertension , supraventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , fluid retention Gastrointestinal Disorders : Nausea , bowel disturbances ( primarily diarrhea ) Hepatic Disorders : Hepatotoxicity , characterized by , e . g . , jaundice and altered liver function tests , when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential Renal and Urinary Disorders : Urinary frequency , urinary incontinence Hematologic Disorders : Agranulocytosis , neutropenia , leukopenia , methemoglobinemia , sulfhemoglobinemia Hypersensitivity Reactions : Bronchospasm ( especially in patients with a history of asthma ) , urticaria ; rash ; angioedema , including glossal or laryngeal edema Eye Disorders : Visual disturbances Metabolism Disorders : Porphyria Most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) are restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antipsychotics : Potential for additive effects , including TD , EPS , and NMS ; avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • CNS depressants : Increased risk of CNS depression ; avoid concomitant use and monitor for adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine ) : See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • MAO inhibitors : Increased risk of hypertension ; avoid concomitant use .
( 5 . 5 , 7 . 1 ) • Additional drug interactions : See Full Prescribing Information .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Table 3 displays the effects of other drugs on metoclopramide .
Antipsychotics Clinical Impact Potential for additive effects , including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , other extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors , not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide ; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Examples quinidine , bupropion , fluoxetine , and paroxetine .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use .
Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets or the interacting drug , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient .
Examples alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates and anxiolytics .
Drugs that Impair Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact Decreased systemic absorption of metoclopramide .
Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect .
Examples antiperistaltic antidiarrheal drugs , anticholinergic drugs , and opiates .
Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Decreased therapeutic effect of metoclopramide , a D2 antagonist , due to opposing effects on dopamine .
Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect .
Examples Apomorphine , bromocriptine , cabergoline , levodopa , pramipexole , ropinirole , and rotigotine .
7 . 2 Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Table 4 displays the effects of metoclopramide on other drugs .
Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations : Clinical Impact Opposing effects of metoclopramide and the interacting drug on dopamine .
Potential exacerbation of symptoms ( e . g . , parkinsonian symptoms ) .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Examples Apomorphine , bromocriptine , cabergoline , levodopa , pramipexole , ropinirole , rotigotine .
Succinylcholine , Mivacurium : Clinical Impact Metoclopramide inhibits plasma cholinesterase leading to enhanced neuromuscular blockade .
Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of prolonged neuromuscular blockade .
Drugs with Absorption Altered due to Increased Gastrointestinal Motility : Clinical Impact The effect of metoclopramide on other drugs is variable .
Increased gastrointestinal ( GI ) motility by metoclopramide may impact absorption of other drugs leading to decreased or increased drug exposure .
Intervention Drugs with Decreased Absorption ( e . g . , digoxin , atovaquone , posaconazole oral suspension * , fosfomycin ) : Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect of the interacting drug .
For digoxin monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and increase the digoxin dose as needed ( see prescribing information for digoxin ) .
Drugs with Increased Absorption ( e . g . , sirolimus , tacrolimus , cyclosporine ) : Monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and adjust the dose as needed .
See prescribing information for the interacting drug .
Insulin Clinical Impact Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose .
Intervention Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin dosage regimen as needed .
* Interaction does not apply to posaconazole delayed - release tablets 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Published studies , including retrospective cohort studies , national registry studies , and meta - analyses , do not report an increased risk of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes with use of metoclopramide during pregnancy .
There are potential risks to the neonate following exposure in utero to metoclopramide during delivery ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of metoclopramide to pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures about 6 and 12 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Metoclopramide crosses the placental barrier and may cause extrapyramidal signs and methemoglobinemia in neonates with maternal administration during delivery .
Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal signs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed following administration of oral metoclopramide during organogenesis in pregnant rats at about 6 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area and in pregnant rabbits at about 12 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area .
No evidence of adverse developmental effects due to metoclopramide were observed .
8 . 6 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published data report the presence of metoclopramide in human milk in variable amounts .
Breastfed infants exposed to metoclopramide have experienced gastrointestinal adverse reactions , including intestinal discomfort and increased intestinal gas formation ( see Data ) .
Metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] ; however , the published data are not adequate to support drug effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding neonates because metoclopramide may cause extrapyramidal signs ( dystonias ) and methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Data In published clinical studies , the estimated amount of metoclopramide received by the breastfed infant was less than 10 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dose .
In one study , the estimated daily amount of metoclopramide received by infants from breast milk ranged from 6 to 24 mcg / kg / day in early puerperium ( 3 to 9 days postpartum ) and from 1 to 13 mcg / kg / day at 8 to 12 weeks postpartum .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates .
The safety and effectiveness of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Dystonias and other extrapyramidal reactions associated with metoclopramide are more common in the pediatric patients than in adults [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
In addition , neonates have reduced levels of NADH - cytochrome b5 reductase , making them more susceptible to methemoglobinemia , a possible side effect of metoclopramide use in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Metoclopramide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions , including tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , may be greater in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function and may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide ; therefore , consider a reduced dosage of METOZOLOV ODT in elderly patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The clearance of metoclopramide is decreased and the systemic exposure is increased in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions .
Reduce the Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets dosage in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) , including those receiving hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Hepatic Impairment Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have reduced systemic metoclopramide clearance ( by approximately 50 % ) compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
The resulting increase in metoclopramide blood concentrations increases the risk of adverse reactions .
There are no pharmacokinetic data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) .
Reduce Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets dosage in patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh B or C ) hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
There is no dosage adjustment required for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) .
In addition , metoclopramide , by producing a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , may increase the risk of fluid retention in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Monitor patients with hepatic impairment for the occurrence of fluid retention and volume overload .
8 . 9 NADH - Cytochrome b5 Reductase Deficiency Metoclopramide - treated patients with NADH - cytochrome b5 reductase deficiency are at an increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia and / or sulfhemoglobinemia .
For patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency the metoclopramide - induced methemoglobinemia , methylene blue treatment is not recommended .
Methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , which may be fatal [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
8 . 10 CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Metoclopramide is a substrate of CYP2D6 .
The elimination of metoclopramide may be slowed in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers ( compared to patients who are CYP2D6 intermediate , extensive , or ultra - rapid metabolizers ) ; possibly increasing the risk of dystonic and other adverse reactions to Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Reduce the Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets dosage in patients who are poor CYP2D6 metabolizers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of metoclopramide overdosage included drowsiness , disorientation , extrapyramidal reactions , other adverse reactions associated with metoclopramide use ( including , e . g . , methemoglobinemia ) , and sometimes death .
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) has been reported in association with metoclopramide overdose and concomitant treatment with another drug associated with NMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
There are no specific antidotes for Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets overdosage .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue .
However , methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , which may be fatal .
11 DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide hydrochloride , the active ingredient of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets , is a dopamine - 2 ( D2 ) antagonist .
Metoclopramide hydrochloride ( metoclopramide monohydrochloride monohydrate ) , is a white or almost white crystalline powder , freely soluble in water .
Chemically , it is 4 - amino - 5 - chloro - N - [ 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] - 2 - methoxy benzamide monohydrochloride monohydrate .
The molecular formula is C14H22ClN3O2 • HCl • H2O .
Its molecular weight is 354 . 3 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is an orally disintegrating tablet for oral administration and is available in 5 mg and 10 mg strengths .
• Each Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets 5 mg tablet contains 5 mg metoclopramide ( equivalent to 5 . 91 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride USP ) .
• Each Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets 10 mg tablet contains 10 mg metoclopramide ( equivalent to 11 . 82 mg metoclopramide hydrochloride USP ) .
• Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets includes the following inactive ingredients : phosphoric acid , mannitol and starch , microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , amino methacrylate copolymer , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene , crospovidone , aspartame , N - C mint flavor , magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric , biliary , or pancreatic secretions .
The exact mechanism of action of metoclopramide in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis has not been fully established .
It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine .
The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation , but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs .
Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric ( especially antral ) contractions , relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb , and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit .
It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter .
It has little , if any , effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Gastroesophageal Reflux In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low lower esophageal sphincter pressure ( LESP ) , single oral doses of Reglan produced dose - related increases in LESP .
Effects began at about 5 mg and increased through 20 mg .
The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasted about 45 minutes and that of 20 mg lasted between 2 and 3 hours .
Increased rate of stomach emptying was observed with single oral doses of 10 mg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Unless otherwise specified the PK of metoclopramide described below was obtained using other oral formulations of metoclopramide .
Absorption Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg , the absolute oral bioavailability of metoclopramide was 80 % ± 15 . 5 % as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects .
Following Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets tablet administration , the time reported between placing the tablet on the tongue and it completely disintegrated into fine particles was approximately one minute ( with a range of 10 seconds to 14 minutes ) in two clinical trials ( N = 96 ) with a mean ± SD being 77 ± 111 seconds and a median of 54 seconds [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Peak plasma concentrations occurred at about 1 to 2 hours after a single oral dose .
Similar time to peak is observed after individual doses at steady state .
In a single dose study of 12 subjects showed that the area under the drug concentration - time curve increases linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg of metoclopramide ( 5 times the maximum recommended single dose of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ) .
Cmax increased linearly with dose ; Tmax remained the same ; whole body clearance was unchanged ; and the elimination rate remained the same .
Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide .
The pharmacokinetic characteristics following single oral administration of 10 mg Metoclopramide Hydrochloride Orally Disintegrating Tablets under fasting conditions are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 Mean ( ± SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects Following a Single Oral Dose of 10 mg Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets Under Fasting Conditions Treatment C max ( ng / mL ) T max ( h ) * AUC 0 - inf ( ng * h / mL ) Single 10 mg Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ( N = 41 ) 28 ± 7 . 4 2 . 0 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 268 ± 72 . 6 * presented as median ( range ) .
Effect of Food When Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets was taken immediately after a high - fat meal ( approximately 900 total calories based on the composition being 150 protein calories , 250 carbohydrate calories and 500 fat calories ) , the Cmax was 17 % lower than when taken after an overnight fast .
The Tmax increased from about 1 . 8 hours under fasted conditions to 3 hours when taken immediately after a high - fat meal .
The extent of metoclopramide absorbed ( area under the curve ) was comparable whether Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets was administered with or without food .
The clinical relevance of a lower Cmax with a high - fat meal is unknown [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Metoclopramide is not extensively bound to plasma proteins ( about 30 % ) .
The whole body volume of distribution is high ( about 3 . 5 L / kg ) which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues .
Elimination The average elimination half - life of metoclopramide in subjects with normal renal function was 5 to 6 hours Metabolism Metoclopramide undergoes enzymatic metabolism via oxidation as well as glucuronide and sulfate conjugation reactions in the liver .
Monodeethylmetoclopramide , a major oxidative metabolite , is formed primarily by CYP2D6 , an enzyme subject to genetic variability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 9 ) ] .
Excretion Approximately 85 % of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appears in the urine within 72 hours .
After oral administration of 10 or 20 mg , a mean of 18 % and 22 % of the dose , respectively , was recovered as free metoclopramide in urine within 36 hours .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment In a study of 24 patients with varying degrees of renal impairment ( moderate , severe , and end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring dialysis ) , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) of metoclopramide in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment was about 2 - fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function .
The AUC of metoclopramide in patients with ESRD on dialysis was about 3 . 5 - fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment In a group of 8 patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) , the average metoclopramide clearance was reduced by approximately 50 % compared to patients with normal hepatic function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Metoclopramide on CYP2D6 Substrates Although in vitro studies suggest that metoclopramide can inhibit CYP2D6 , metoclopramide is unlikely to interact with CYP2D6 substrates in vivo at therapeutically relevant concentrations .
Effect of CYP2D6 Inhibitors on Metoclopramide In healthy subjects , 20 mg of oral metoclopramide and 60 mg of fluoxetine ( a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor ) were administered , following prior exposure to 60 mg fluoxetine orally for 8 days .
The patients who received concomitant metoclopramide and fluoxetine had a 40 % and 90 % increase in metoclopramide Cmax and AUC0 - ∞ , respectively , compared to patients who received metoclopramide alone ( see Table 6 Metoclopramide Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects with and without Fluoxetine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Table 6 Metoclopramide Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects with and without Fluoxetine Parameter Metoclopramide alone ( mean ± SD ) Metoclopramide with fluoxetine ( mean ± SD ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 44 ± 15 62 . 7 ± 9 . 2 AUC0 - ∞ ( ngˑh / mL ) 313 ± 113 591 ± 140 t1 / 2 ( h ) 5 . 5 ± 1 . 1 8 . 5 ± 2 . 2 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis A 77 - week study was conducted in rats with oral metoclopramide doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( about six times the maximum recommended human dose on body surface area basis ) .
Metoclopramide elevated prolactin levels and the elevation persisted during chronic administration .
An increase in mammary neoplasms was found in rodents after chronic administration of metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
In a rat model for assessing the tumor promotion potential , a 2 - week oral treatment with metoclopramide at a dose of 260 mg / kg / day ( about 35 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) enhanced the tumorigenic effect of N - nitrosodiethylamine .
Mutagenesis Metoclopramide was positive in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell / HGPRT forward mutation assay for mutagenic effects and the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay for clastogenic effects .
It was negative in the in vitro Ames mutation assay , the in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis assay with rat and human hepatocytes and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Metoclopramide at intramuscular doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( about 3 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets 5 mg strength are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 581 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 5 mg metoclopramide ( as 5 . 91 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
These are packaged in blister cards as follows : Box of 10 ( 1x10 ) NDC 43386 - 581 - 31 Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets 10 mg are round , white to off - white , flat faced beveled edge tablet debossed with ' N ' on one side and " 580 " on the other side ; it is comprised of 10 mg metoclopramide ( as 11 . 82 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride ) .
These are packaged in blister cards as follows : Box of 10 ( 1x10 ) NDC 43386 - 580 - 31 Tablets should be stored at controlled room temperature , between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Adverse Reactions Inform patients or their caregivers that Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious adverse reactions .
Instruct patients to discontinue Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and contact a healthcare provider immediately if the following serious reactions occur : • Tardive dyskinesia and other extrapyramidal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] • Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Depression and / or possible suicidal ideation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Inform patients or their caregivers that concomitant treatment with numerous other medications can precipitate or worsen serious adverse reactions such as tardive dyskinesia or other extrapyramidal reactions , neuroleptic malignant syndrome , and CNS depression [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
Explain that the prescriber of any other medication must be made aware that the patient is taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Inform patients or their caregivers that Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause drowsiness or dizziness , or otherwise impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Administration Instruct patients to : • Take on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before eating .
Do not repeat dose if inadvertently taken with food .
• Remove each dose from the packaging just prior to taking .
Handle the tablet with dry hands and place on the tongue .
If the tablet should break or crumble while handling , discard and remove a new tablet .
• Place the tablet on the tongue and allow it to disintegrate ( takes approximately one minute ) and swallow the granules without water [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 USA Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 PI5800000203 SAP code : 260278 Rev . 10 / 2019 SPL MEDGUIDE Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ( MET - oh - KLOE - pra - mide ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
If you take another product that contains metoclopramide ( such as REGLAN tablets , REGLAN ODT , REGLAN injection or metoclopramide oral solution ) , you should read the Medication Guide that comes with that product .
Some of the information may be different .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious side effects , including : Tardive dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
These movements happen mostly in the face muscles .
You cannot control these movements .
They may not go away even after stopping Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
There is no treatment for tardive dyskinesia , but symptoms may lessen or go away over time after you stop taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Your chances for getting tardive dyskinesia go up : • the longer you take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and the more Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets you take .
You should not take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• if you are older , especially if you are an older woman .
• if you have diabetes .
It is not possible for your doctor to know if you will get tardive dyskinesia if you take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Call your doctor right away if you have movements you cannot stop or control , such as : • lip smacking , chewing , or puckering of your lips • frowning or scowling • sticking out your tongue • blinking and moving your eyes • shaking of your arms and legs See the section " What are the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is a prescription medicine used in adults : • for 4 to 12 weeks to relieve heartburn symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) when certain other treatments do not work .
• to relieve the symptoms of slow stomach emptying in people with diabetes .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets is not recommended for use in children .
Do not take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets if you : • have a history of tardive dyskinesia or have a problem controlling your muscles and movements after taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets or a medicine that works like Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• have stomach or intestine problems that could get worse with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets , such as bleeding , blockage or a tear in your stomach or bowel wall .
• have a type of tumor that can cause high blood pressure such as pheochromocytoma .
• have epilepsy ( seizures ) .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can increase your chance for seizures and make them worse .
• are allergic to metoclopramide or any of the ingredients in Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious allergic reactions .
Stop taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets right away and get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • swelling of your tongue , throat , lips , eyes or face .
• trouble swallowing or breathing .
• skin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or skin blisters .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of ingredients in Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Before you take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney or liver disease .
• had problems controlling your muscle movements after taking any medicine .
• have depression or mental illness .
• have high blood pressure .
• have heart failure or heart rhythm problems .
• have diabetes .
Your dose of insulin may need to be changed .
• have Parkinson ' s disease .
• have breast cancer .
• drink alcohol .
• have seizures .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets may harm your unborn baby if taken during the end of pregnancy .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can pass into your breastmilk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - countermedicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and some medicines can affect each other and may not work as well , or cause possible side effects .
Do not start any new medicine while taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets until you talk with your doctor .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • another medicine that contains metoclopramide , such as REGLAN injection , tablets , REGLAN ODT , or metoclopramide oral syrup • a blood pressure medicine • a medicine for depression , especially a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) • an anti - psychotic medicine , used to treat mental illness such as schizophrenia • insulin • medicines that can make you sleepy , such as anti - anxiety medicines , sleep medicines , and narcotics .
If you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get new medicine .
How should I take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you to .
• Take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before eating and at bedtime .
Do not repeat your dose if you accidentally take it with food .
• Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets comes as a tablet that melts in your mouth .
• Leave the tablet in the sealed blister Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets pack until you are ready to take it .
• Use dry hands to open a blister and take out a tablet .
If the tablet breaks or crumbles throw it away and take a new tablet out of the blister pack .
• Put the tablet on your tongue right away .
Let it melt and then swallow .
This should take about 1 minute .
You do not need water to take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• You should not take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• If you take too much Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets , call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Do not drink alcohol while taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Alcohol may make some side effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets worse , such as feeling sleepy .
• Do not drive , work with machines , or do dangerous tasks until you know how Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets affects you .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets may cause sleepiness or dizziness .
What are the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • Tardive dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ? "
• Other changes in muscle control and movement , such as : • Uncontrolled spasms of your face and neck muscles , or muscles of your body , arms , and legs ( dystonia ) .
These muscle spasms can cause abnormal movements and body positions , and speech problems .
These spasms usually start within the first 2 days of treatment .
Rarely , these muscle spasms may cause trouble breathing .
These spasms happen more often in adults younger than 30 years of age .
• Parkinsonism .
Symptoms include slight shaking , body stiffness , trouble moving or keeping your balance .
If you have Parkinson ' s Disease , your symptoms may become worse while you are taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
• Being unable to sit still or feeling you need to move your hands , feet , or body ( akathisia ) .
Symptoms can include feeling jittery , anxious , irritated or unable to sleep ( insomnia ) , feeling the need to walk around ( pacing ) and tapping feet .
• Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS is a rare but very serious condition that can happen with Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
NMS can cause death and must be treated in a hospital .
Symptoms of NMS include : high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating .
• Depression , thoughts about suicide , and suicide .
Some people who take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets may become depressed .
You may have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself .
Some people who have taken metoclopramide products have ended their own lives ( suicide ) .
• High blood pressure .
Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets can cause your blood pressure to increase .
• Too much body water .
People who have certain liver problems or heart failure and take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets may hold too much water in their body ( fluid retention ) .
Tell your doctor right away if you have sudden weight gain , or swelling of your hands , legs , or feet .
• Increased prolactin .
Tell your doctor if your menstrual periods stop , your breasts get larger and make milk , or you cannot have sex ( impotence ) .
These symptoms go away when you stop taking Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Call your doctor and get medical help right away if you : • feel depressed or have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself • have high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating • have muscle movements you cannot stop or control • have muscle movements that are new or unusual The most common side effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets are : • restlessness • drowsiness • tiredness • lack of energy You may have more side effects the longer you take Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and the more Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets you take .
You may still have side effects after stopping Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
You may have symptoms from stopping Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets such as headaches and feeling dizzy or nervous .
Tell your doctor about any side effects that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 – 800 – FDA - 1088 .
How do I store Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
• Store Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets away from moisture .
• Throw away any Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets that is not used .
Keep Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
If you would like more information about Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 .
What are the ingredients in Metoclopramide Orally Disintegrating Tablets ?
Active ingredient : Metoclopramide Hydrochloride , USP Inactive ingredients : phosphoric acid , mannitol and starch , microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , amino methacrylate copolymer , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene , crospovidone , aspartame , N - C mint flavor , magnesium stearate Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 USA Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 PI5800000203 SAP code : 260278 Rev . 10 / 2019 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : October 2019 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
