Drug Facts Active Ingredients DL - CAMPHOR ( 2 . 5 % ) wt / wt Purposes Analgesic Uses • Helps relieve itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids and anorectal disorders • Temporarily relieves pain associated with anorectal inflammation and inflamed hemorrhoidal tissues • May provide cooling sensation Warnings For rectal use only Do not use for more than 30 consecutive days When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage , unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Bleeding occurs • Condition worsens or does not improve within seven days • Signs of a local infection appear • Certain person can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product .
If the symptom being treated does not subside of if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , and or other symptoms develop or increase , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison Control Center right away 1 ( 800 ) 222 - 1222 .
Children under 12 years : consult a doctor Directions Adults • When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water • Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before insertion of this product .
• Detach one suppository from the strip , remove the foil wrapper before inserting into the rectum as follows : • Hold suppository with rounded end up • Carefully separate foil tabs by inserting tip of fingernail at the end • Slowly and evenly peel apart ( do not tear ) foil by pulling tabs down both sides to expose the suppository • Remove exposed suppository from wrapper • Insert one suppository into the rectum up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning or after each bowel movement Other Information • Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) • Protect from excessive moisture • Keep away from direct sunlight Inactive Ingredients Aloe Vera Leaf Extract , Calendula Officinalis Extract , Achillea Millefolium Extract , Ethanol , Clove Oil , Witepsol H15 , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , BHA Manufactured by SC Global Treat SRL 157 Portului Street , 800211 , Galati , Romania Web : www . hemotreat . com EMail : contact @ hemotreat . com Questions ?
Call : 1 ( 800 ) 580 - 2238 Principal Display Panel NDC 69758 - 328 - 88 HemoTreat Hemorrhoidal Suppositories [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
