Drug Facts Active Ingredients White Petrolatum 21 . 3 % wt / wt Lanolin 21 . 25 % wt / wt Hard Fat 42 . 6 % wt / wt Camphor 2 . 5 % wt / wt Purposes Protectant Protectant Protectant Analgesic Other Information • store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • keep away from direct sunlight Inactive Ingredients butylated hydroxyl anisole , calcium carbonate , ethanol , ethylparaben , eucalyptus oil , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol Uses • Helps relieve itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids and anorectal disorders • Temporarily relieves pain associated with anorectal inflammation and inflamed hemorrhoidal tissues • May provide cooling sensation Warnings For rectal use only • Do not use for more than consecutive 30 days • When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage , unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Bleeding occurs • Condition worsens or does not improve within seven days • Signs of a local infection appear • Certain person can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product .
If the symptom being treated does not subside of if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , and or other symptoms develop or increase , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison Control Center right away 1 ( 800 ) 222 - 1222 .
Children under 12 years • consult a doctor Directions Adults • When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water • Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of ointment • With the help of the index finger , apply a generous layer of ointment • For optimal results apply at least 2 times a day , morning and evening , for 5 - 7 consecutive days .
Spread on to the affected area , generally on the exterior of the anus and in the vicinity of the anal orifice .
Product should stay on affected area for several hours .
Reapply if bathroom trip results in product removal .
Manufactured by SC Global Treat SRL 157 Portului Street , 800211 , Galati , Romania Web : www . hemotreat . com EMail : contact @ hemotreat . com Questions ?
Call : 1 ( 800 ) 580 - 2238 Principal Display Panel NDC 69758 - 325 - 55 HemoTreat Hemorrhoid Ointment 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
