DESCRIPTION Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a sterile solution intended for subcutaneous , intramuscular or slow intravenous injection .
Each mL contains hydromorphone hydrochloride 2 mg , edetate disodium 0 . 5 mg , methylparaben 1 . 8 mg and propylparaben 0 . 2 mg in Water for Injection .
The pH range is 3 . 5 - 5 . 5 ; sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid added , if needed , for pH adjustment .
Hydromorphone is a semisynthetic phenanthrene alkaloid of opium ; it is classified pharmacologically as a narcotic analgesic .
Hydromorphone hydrochloride may be named chemically as 4 , 5α - Epoxy - 3 - hydroxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H19NO3 • HCl M . W . 321 . 80 Hydromorphone hydrochloride occurs as a fine , white or practically white , crystalline powder and is freely soluble in water and sparingly soluble in alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydromorphone resembles morphine both structurally and pharmacologically .
Like other narcotic analgesics , hydromorphone exerts its principal pharmacological effects on the central nervous system and gastrointestinal tract .
Its primary action of therapeutic value is analgesia .
The analgesic effects of hydromorphone are due to its central action ; however , the precise mechanism of action of hydromorphone and other opiates is not known , although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system .
Hydromorphone , like other narcotic analgesics , appears to increase the patient ’ s tolerance for pain and to decrease the perception of suffering , although the presence of the pain itself may still be recognized .
In addition to analgesia , narcotics commonly produce such CNS effects as drowsiness , alterations in mood and mental clouding .
Hydromorphone is reported to produce analgesia with less sedation than morphine .
This may be an advantage in the postoperative period , since the patient with a less - clouded sensorium is better able to cooperate in early ambulation procedures .
Likewise , cancer patients can be relieved of pain yet remain sufficiently alert to function within the scope of their underlying physical disorder .
Narcotic analgesics also depress various respiratory centers , depress the cough reflex , constrict the pupils , elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure , produce transient hyperglycemia and enhance parasympathetic activity .
Narcotic analgesics may cause nausea and vomiting by stimulating the chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) ; however , they also depress the vomiting center , so that subsequent doses are unlikely to produce vomiting .
Nausea and vomiting are significantly more common in ambulatory than in recumbent patients .
Narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract .
The resultant prolongation in gastrointestinal transit time is responsible for hydromorphone ’ s constipating effect .
Because narcotics may increase biliary tract pressure , some patients with biliary colic may experience worsening rather than relief of pain .
While narcotics generally increase the tone of urinary tract smooth muscle , the net effect tends to be variable , in some cases producing urinary urgency , in others , difficulty in urination .
Narcotics have also been reported to cause antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) to be released , thereby reducing urine output .
In therapeutic dosage , opiates do not usually exert major effects on the cardiovascular system .
However , some patients exhibit a propensity to develop orthostatic hypotension and fainting .
Rapid intravenous injection is more likely to precipitate a fall in blood pressure than are intramuscular or subcutaneous injections .
Narcotic analgesics cause histamine release , which appears to be responsible for wheals or urticaria sometimes seen at the site of injection .
Histamine release may also produce dilation of cutaneous blood vessels , with resultant flushing of the face and neck , pruritus and sweating .
Hydromorphone is well absorbed after parenteral administration .
After intramuscular administration , hydromorphone has a slightly more rapid onset and slightly shorter duration of analgesia than morphine .
The major pathway of hydromorphone metabolism is conjugation with glucuronic acid in the liver ; hydromorphone glucuronide is excreted primarily in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain such as that due to : surgery , cancer , trauma ( soft tissue and bone ) , biliary colic , myocardial infarction , burns , renal colic .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to hydromorphone , in the presence of an intracranial lesion associated with increased intracranial pressure and whenever ventilatory function is depressed ( chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , cor pulmonale , emphysema , kyphoscoliosis , status asthmaticus ) .
[ See WARNINGS . ]
Narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , are contraindicated in premature infants or during labor when delivery of a premature infant is anticipated .
WARNINGS RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION Hydromorphone produces dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers .
Hydromorphone also affects centers that control respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
HEAD INJURY AND INCREASED INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE The respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone and its capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , hydromorphone produces adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
In such patients , hydromorphone must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential .
ACUTE ABDOMINAL CONDITIONS The administration of hydromorphone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
ASTHMA AND OTHER RESPIRATORY CONDITIONS Hydromorphone should be used with extreme caution in patients having an acute asthmatic attack , patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve and patients with pre - existing respiratory depression , hypoxia or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
INTRAVENOUS USE If necessary , hydromorphone may be given intravenously , but the injection should be given very slowly ( over a period of at least 3 to 5 minutes ) .
Rapid intravenous injection of narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , increases the incidence of adverse reactions ; severe respiratory depression , apnea , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , as well as anaphylactoid reactions , have occurred .
Hydromorphone should not be administered intravenously unless a narcotic antagonist and the facilities for resuscitation and assisted or controlled respiration are immediately available .
When hydromorphone is given parenterally , especially intravenously , the patient should be lying down .
HYPOTENSIVE EFFECT The administration of hydromorphone may result in severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a depleted blood volume or concurrent administration of drugs such as the phenothiazines or certain anesthetics .
Hydromorphone may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , should be administered with caution and initial dose reduced in patients with acute abdominal conditions , convulsive disorders , significant hepatic or renal impairment , fever , hypothyroidism , Addison ’ s disease , ulcerative colitis , prostatic hypertrophy , urethral stricture , patients with recent gastrointestinal or urinary tract surgery and in elderly or debilitated patients .
As with any narcotic analgesic agent , the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind and the usual precautions observed .
Caution must be used when injecting any opioid subcutaneously or intramuscularly into chilled areas or in patients with hypotension or shock , since impaired perfusion may prevent complete absorption ; if repeated injections are administered , an excessive amount may be suddenly absorbed if normal circulation is reestablished .
Hydromorphone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when hydromorphone is used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Hydromorphone may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants , including sedatives , hypnotics , tranquilizers , phenothiazines and antihistamines may have an additive effect .
Hydromorphone , like other narcotic analgesics , may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Patients should be cautioned accordingly .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Hydromorphone should be administered cautiously and in reduced dosage to avoid additive effects when other central nervous system depressants including other narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , tricyclic antidepressants , sedative - hypnotics or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) are given concomitantly .
Whenever concomitant therapy with MAO inhibitors and narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone is to be used , an initial small test dose is advisable to allow observation of excessive narcotic effects or MAOI interaction .
DRUG / LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Because narcotic analgesics may increase biliary tract pressure , with resultant increase in plasma amylase or lipase levels , determination of these enzyme levels may be unreliable for 24 hours after a narcotic analgesic has been given .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess the carcinogenic potential of hydromorphone , nor are there any other animal or human data available concerning carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility with this drug .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C . Hydromorphone has been shown to be teratogenic in golden hamsters with a minimal effective teratogenic dose of 19 mg / kg , when given in doses 600 times the usual therapeutic dose in humans .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydromorphone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects .
Dependence has been reported in newborns whose mothers took opiates regularly during pregnancy .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting and fever .
Signs usually appear during the first few days of life .
LABOR AND DELIVERY Hydromorphone crosses the placental barrier .
The closer to delivery and the larger the dose used , the greater the possibility of respiratory depression in the newborn .
Hydromorphone should be avoided during labor if delivery of a premature infant is anticipated .
If the mother has received narcotic analgesics during labor , newborn infants should be observed closely for signs of respiratory depression .
Resuscitation may be required ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
The effect of hydromorphone , if any , on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
Clinical studies have failed to demonstrate any effect of morphine on the uterus itself or on the pattern of contractions during labor .
However , therapeutic doses of morphine have been reported to somewhat increase the duration of labor .
The mechanism involved , the clinical significance of this observation , if any , or its relevance to other narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , are unknown .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether hydromorphone is excreted in human milk .
However , detectable amounts of other narcotic analgesics have been found in human milk .
Although these levels are not considered to be clinically significant after usual therapeutic dosage , since there is the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydromorphone , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Narcotic analgesics , including hydromorphone , should not be used in premature infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Narcotics are reported to cross the immature blood - brain barrier to a greater extent , thereby producing disproportionate respiratory depression .
Safety and effectiveness of hydromorphone in infants and children have not been established and the optimal pediatric dose has not been determined .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone , as with other narcotic analgesics , are respiratory depression and , to a lesser degree , circulatory depression ; respiratory arrest , shock and cardiac arrest have occurred , particularly with overdosage or rapid intravenous administration .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported when phenanthrene alkaloids of opium are administered intravenously .
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM : Sedation , drowsiness , mental clouding , headache , tremor , visual disturbances , weakness , agitation , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , uncoordinated muscle movements , anxiety , fear , euphoria , dysphoria , dizziness , psychological dependence and mood changes .
GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM : Nausea and vomiting occur more frequently in ambulatory than in recumbent patients .
Hydromorphone may produce constipation , biliary tract spasm and can increase intraluminal pressure which may endanger surgical anastomosis .
Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility ; in patients with acute ulcerative colitis , toxic dilatation has been reported with narcotics .
CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM : Circulatory depression , peripheral circulatory collapse and cardiac arrest have occurred after rapid intravenous injection .
Orthostatic hypotension and fainting may occur , especially if a patient stands up suddenly after receiving an injection of hydromorphone .
Additionally , hydromorphone may cause tachycardia , bradycardia and palpitations .
GENITOURINARY SYSTEM : Oliguria , ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported .
RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION : Hydromorphone produces dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers .
Hydromorphone also affects centers that control respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
If significant respiratory depression occurs , it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride .
In patients who are physically dependent , small doses of naloxone may be sufficient not only to antagonize respiratory depression but also to precipitate withdrawal phenomena .
The dose of naloxone should , therefore , be adjusted accordingly in such patients .
Since the duration of action of hydromorphone may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance ; repeated doses of the antagonist may be required to maintain adequate respiration .
Apply other supportive measures when indicated .
ALLERGIC : Allergic reactions to opiates occur infrequently ; pruritus , urticaria and other skin rashes are most common .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported following intravenous administration of opiates .
OTHER : Opiate - induced histamine release may be responsible for the flushing of the face , sweating and pruritus often seen with these drugs .
Wheals and urticaria at the site of injection are probably related to histamine release .
Local tissue irritation , pain and induration have been reported following repeated subcutaneous injection .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection is a Schedule II controlled narcotic substance .
ABUSE Hydromorphone is known to be subject to abuse .
Opiates produce relaxation , indifference to pain and stress , lethargy and euphoria .
Patients who receive narcotics regularly for more than a few days may exhibit mild symptoms , which may not be recognized as withdrawal , upon discontinuation of therapy .
However , the overwhelming majority of patients who receive opiates for medical reasons do not develop drug - seeking behavior or compulsive drug use .
Personality characteristics play a major role in determining which patients are likely to abuse drugs .
Hydromorphone must be administered only under close supervision to patients with a history of drug abuse or dependence .
DEPENDENCE Psychological dependence , physical dependence and tolerance are known to occur with hydromorphone .
Therefore , hydromorphone should be prescribed and administered with caution .
The severity of the abstinence syndrome is related to the degree of dependence , the abruptness of withdrawal and the drug used .
If the abstinence syndrome is precipitated by administration of a narcotic antagonist , symptoms appear within a few minutes and are maximal within thirty minutes .
Administration of a narcotic antagonist as a means of detecting dependence is not usually recommended .
Withdrawal symptoms in patients dependent on hydromorphone include yawning ; sweating ; lacrimation ; rhinorrhea ; a restless , tossing sleep ; dilated pupils ; goose flesh ; irritability ; tremor ; nausea ; vomiting and diarrhea .
Treatment of the abstinence syndrome is primarily symptomatic and supportive , including maintenance of proper fluid and electrolyte balance .
Tolerance , in which increasingly large doses are required in order to produce the same degree of analgesia , is manifested initially by a shortened duration of analgesic effect and subsequently by decreases in the intensity of analgesia .
The rate of development of tolerance varies among patients .
OVERDOSAGE SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS Serious overdosage with hydromorphone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
The triad of coma , pinpoint pupils and respiratory depression is strongly suggestive of opiate poisoning .
In severe overdosage , particularly by the intravenous route , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
It is difficult to determine what constitutes a standard toxic or lethal dose .
Infants and children are believed to be relatively more sensitive to opiates on a body - weight basis .
Elderly patients are also comparatively intolerant to opiates .
TREATMENT Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics , including hydromorphone .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route in conjunction with ventilatory assistance .
Since the duration of action of hydromorphone may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance ; repeated doses of the antagonist may be required to maintain adequate respiration .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
The patient should be closely observed for a rise in temperature or pulmonary complications that may signal the need for institution of antibiotic therapy .
NOTE : In an individual physically dependent on narcotics , the administration of the usual dose of a narcotic antagonist will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of antagonist administered .
The use of narcotic antagonists in such individuals should be avoided if possible .
If a narcotic antagonist must be used to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , the antagonist should be administered with extreme care and only one - tenth to one - fifth the usual initial dose administered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dose is 1 - 2 mg subcutaneously orintramuscularly every 4 to 6 hours as necessary for pain control .
The dose should be adjusted according to severity of pain , as well as the patient ’ s underlying disease , age and size .
Severe pain can usually be controlled by 3 - 4 mg every 4 to 6 hours as required .
Patients with terminal cancer may become tolerant to narcotic analgesics and may , therefore , require higher doses for adequate pain relief .
Should intravenous administration be necessary , the injection should be given very slowly ( over at least 3 to 5 minutes , depending on the dose ) [ see WARNINGS , INTRAVENOUS USE ] .
A gradual increase in dosage may be required if analgesia is inadequate , tolerance occurs or if pain severity increases .
The first sign of tolerance is usually a reduced duration of effect .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection , USP is available in the following : 2 mg / mL 20 mL Multiple Dose vials packaged individually ( NDC 0641 - 2341 - 41 ) STORAGE PROTECT FROM LIGHT : Keep covered in carton .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not use the injection if it is more than slightly discolored or contains a precipitate .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 Revised April 2020 462 - 259 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0641 - 2341 - 39 Rx only Hydromorphone HCl Injection , USP CII 40 mg per 20 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) For Subcutaneous , Intramuscular or slow Intravenous use 20 mL Multiple Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0641 - 2341 - 41 Rx only Hydromorphone HCl Injection , USP CII 40 mg per 20 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) For Subcutaneous , Intramuscular or slow Intravenous use 20 mL Multiple Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
