DESCRIPTION : Vitamin B - Complex 100 Injection is a sterile solution for intramuscular or slow intravenous injection comprised of vitamins which may be categorized as belonging to the vitamin B complex group .
Each mL contains : Thiamine Hydrochloride 100 mg , Riboflavin 5 ' Phosphate Sodium 2 mg , Pyridoxine Hydrochloride 2 mg , Dexpanthenol 2 mg , Niacinamide 100 mg , with Benzyl Alcohol 2 % as preservative in Water for Injection .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may have been used to adjust pH . INDICATIONS AND USAGE : In disorders requiring parenteral administration of vitamins , i . e . pre - and post - operative treatment , when requirements are increased as in fever , severe burns , increased metabolism , pregnancy , gastrointestinal disorders interfering with intake or absorption of vitamins , prolonged or wasting diseases , alcoholism and where other deficiencies exist .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sensitivity to the ingredients listed .
WARNINGS : Anaphylactogenesis may occur with parenteral thiamine .
Use with caution .
An intradermal test dose is recommended prior to administration in patients suspected of being sensitive to the drug .
PRECAUTIONS : The usual precautions for parenteral administration should be observed .
Do not inject if precipitation occurs .
Inject slowly by the intravenous route .
High concentrations should be diluted using Normal Saline Injection when given intravenously .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Mild transient diarrhea , polycythemia vera , peripheral vascular thrombosis , itching transitory exanthema , feeling of swelling of entire body , anaphylactic shock and death .
Sensitivity to the ingredients listed my occur ( See WARNINGS ) .
Use should be discontinued upon observance of any untoward reaction .
Pain upon intramuscular injection may be noted .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Usually 0 . 25 to 2 mL by intramuscular or slow intravenous injection .
High concentrations given intravenously may be diluted using parenteral infusion solutions .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permint ( See How Supplied ) .
HOW SUPPLIED : Vitamin B - Complex 100 Injection is available in a 30 mL multiple dose vial individually boxed .
Phase separation due to reduced solubility can occur under certain conditions of shipping or storage ( e . g . accidental freezing ) , which may produce visible particles .
Do not use product if these do not redissolve on warming to body temperature and shaking well .
Refrigeration of the product may cause darkening of the solution due to the riboflavin content .
The colour does not affect the safety or efficacy of the product .
Rx Only PROTECT FROM LIGHT : Store in carton until contents are used .
Store under refrigeration 2 deg - 8 deg C ( 36 deg - 46 deg F ) .
Do not permit to freeze .
Manufactured for : Bioniche Pharma USA LLC , Lake Forest , IL 60045 Manufactured by : Bioniche Teo . , Inverin , Co .
Galway , Ireland Date Prepared : July 2001 Revised : May 2007 0415L103 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
