For External Use Rx Only DESCRIPTION Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % contains clindamycin phosphate USP at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The solution contains isopropyl alcohol 50 % v / v , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide ( to adjust the pH to between 4 . 0 - 7 . 0 ) .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin .
Following multiple topical applications of clindamycin phosphate at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per mL in an isopropyl alcohol and water solution , very low levels of clindamycin are present in the serum ( 0 – 3 ng / mL ) and less than 0 . 2 % of the dose is recovered in urine as clindamycin .
Clindamycin activity has been demonstrated in comedones from acne patients .
The mean concentration of antibiotic activity in extracted comedones after application of clindamycin phosphate topical solution for 4 weeks was 597 mcg / g of comedonal material ( range 0 – 1490 ) .
Clindamycin in vitro inhibits all Propionibacterium acnes cultures tested ( MICs 0 . 4 mcg / mL ) .
Free fatty acids on the skin surface have been decreased from approximately 14 % to 2 % following application of clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
In view of the potential for diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis , the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin , a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death .
Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis .
Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
When significant diarrhea occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen the condition .
Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile .
The usual adult dosage is 500 milligrams to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days .
Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro .
If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently , it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin .
PRECAUTIONS General - Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % contains an alcohol base which will cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with sensitive surfaces ( eye , abraded skin , mucous membranes ) , bathe with copious amounts of cool tap water .
The solution has an unpleasant taste and caution should be exercised when applying medication around the mouth .
Clindamycin phosphate topical products should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Drug Interactions - Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B - In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
There are no adequate studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use - Clinical studies for clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and / or active comparator drugs as controls , patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [ see table below ] .
Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n = 553 ( % ) Gel n = 148 ( % ) Lotion n = 160 ( % ) Burning 62 ( 11 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Itching 36 ( 7 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Burning / Itching 60 ( 11 ) # ( - ) # ( - ) Dryness 105 ( 19 ) 34 ( 23 ) 29 ( 18 ) Erythema 86 ( 16 ) 10 ( 7 ) 22 ( 14 ) Oiliness / Oily Skin 8 ( 1 ) 26 ( 18 ) 12 * ( 10 ) Peeling 61 ( 11 ) # ( - ) 11 ( 7 ) # not recorded * of 126 subjects Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally .
Cases of diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin ( see WARNINGS ) .
Abdominal pain , gastrointestinal disturbances , gram - negative folliculitis , eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % to the affected area twice daily .
Keep container tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP , 1 % is available as follows : 60 mL applicator bottle ( NDC 45802 - 562 - 02 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com Rev 05 - 18 : 7F100 RC J4 Dynashield - Active Ingredients Active Ingredient Purpose Zinc Oxide 2 % Diaper Rash Dimethicone 1 . 8 % Skin Protectant Dynashield - When using For External Use Only .
Do not get in eyes .
Dynashield - Stop Use • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again in a few days , consult a physician • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of these ingredients Dynashield - Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Dynashield - Purpose • Helps treat and prevent diaper rash • Dries the oozing and weeping of ; • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac Dynashield - Dosage For poison ivy , oak and sumac : • Apply ointment liberally as often as needed For diaper Rash : • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • clean the diaper area and allow to dry • apply ointment liberally with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or anytime when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged .
Dynashield - Other Information • Do not use if seal is punctured or not visible • Store at room temperature 15 0 - 30 0 C ( 59 0 - 86 0 F ) • avoid excessive heat • contains color additives including FDC yellow # 5 ( Tartrazine ) Dynashield - Indications Indications : For use as a general skin protectant and diaper rash .
Dynashield - Inactive Aloe Vera Leaf , Alpha - Tocopherol , Ceteth - 20 , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Cholecalciferol , Glycerin , Lanolin , Lavender perfume , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Propylparaben , Trolamine , Vitamin A , Water PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
