Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Keep out of Reach of Children Keep out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical helpor contact a Posion Control Center immediately .
Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , simple backaches , strains , and sprains Warnings Warnings . For external use only .
Read all warnings and directions before use .
Tet first on small area of skin .
Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • If you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product • You may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days • Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose or mucous membranes .
If this occurs , rinse the affected area thoroughly with water • Do no apply immediately before or after activites such as bathing , swimming , sunbathing , or strenuous exercise • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • Do no apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use • Do not use with a heating pad or on wounds , damaged , broken ( open ) or irritated skin • Avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue .
This can result in coughing , sneezing , tearing , or throat / respiratory irritation Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • Severe burning persists , or blistering occurs • Difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : • Apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed • Unless treating hands , wash hand thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application • For best results , apply 3 to 4 times daily Children 18 years of age and younger : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Glyceryl Stearate , Isopropyl Myristate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Petrolatum , Purified Water , Sorbitol [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
