Active Ingredients : ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Purpose Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 5 mg .................. Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 75 mg ..............................................
Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg .................................. Decongestant Uses • Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with common cold • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passages of bothersome mucus • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold and cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation .
Warnings Do not use If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains an MAOI ; ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Do not Use • In a child under 2 years of age .
Ask a doctor before use if child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema When using this product , do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if your child • gets nervous , dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache ..
These could be signs of a serous condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours .
adults and children 12 years of age and over take 4 teaspoonful ( 20 mL ) every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 2 teaspoonful ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age take 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours children under 2 years of age ask doctor Other information store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Tamper evident by imprinted heat seal under cap .
Do not use if there ' s evidence of tampering .
Warning : Phenylketonuric .
Contains 5 mg of Phenylalanine per 5 mL ( one teaspoonful dose ) .
Inactive Ingredients aspartame , citric acid , natural and artificial flavors , glycerine , methylparaben , natrosol , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate Questions or comments ?
1 - 305 - 403 - 3788 Manufactured For : Advanced Generic Corporation , Miami , Fl 33166 www . advancedgeneric . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
