Active Ingredient Camphor , 7 . 79 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscle and joints associated with simple arthritis , strains , cramps , bruises , and sprains .
For external use only Do not • Apply to open wounds , or damaged , broken , or irritated skin Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or if there is redness or irritation in the applied area or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Caution • Discontinue use if excessive irritation of the skin develops • Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Arthritis : If pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present , or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age , consult a physician immediately .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • Remove plastic top from device and put aside till after treatment • Squeeze device if necessary and apply ointment to the affected area • Repeat as necessary but no more than 3 treatments per day Children under 2 years of age , consult a physician .
Inactive Ingredients Aconitum Kusnezoffii Root , Angelica Dahurica Root , Angelica Sinesis Root , Asarum Heterotropoides var .
Drynaria Fortunei Root , Eleutherococcus Nodiflorus Root Bark , Ethyl Alcohol , Eucalyptus Oil , Frosythia Suspensa Fruit , Frankincense , Gardenia Jasminoides Fruit , Lavender Oil , Lemon , Myrrh , Paeonia Suffruticosa Root Bark , Peppermint Oil , Pinellia Ternata Root , Red Paeonia Lactiflora Root , Rehmannia Glutinosa Root ( Raw ) , Rhubarb , Safflower , Tangerine Peel , Turmeric , White Paeonia Lactiflora Root , Wintergreen Oil , Zanthoxylum Nitidum Root , Zeodary FLEX24 ® RECOVER NATURALLY Dist : FLEX24 , INC .
4020 Galt Ocean Mile , Ste . 1607 Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33308 Tel . : 844 . 4 .
FLEX24 Formulated in USA Made in China ROLL - ON PEN PAIN RELIEF WORKS FOR ARTHRITIS • ALL NATURAL • FAST ACTING • LONG LASTING Topical Analgesic 0 . 61 fl .
oz .
( 18 mL ) • Plant based medicine for pain relief • Fast acting and long lasting • Works for : aches , pains , & strains FLEX24 ® RECOVER NATURALLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
