11 DESCRIPTIONDiovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is a combination of valsartan , an orally active , specific angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) acting on the AT1 receptor subtype , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic .
Valsartan , a nonpeptide molecule , is chemically described as N - ( 1 - oxopentyl ) - N - [ [ 2 ′ - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ′ - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl ] - L - Valine .
Its empirical formula is C24H29N5O3 , its molecular weight is 435 . 5 , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan is a white to practically white fine powder .
It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water .
Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , its molecular weight is 297 . 73 , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diovan HCT tablets are formulated for oral administration to contain valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg and 320 / 25 mg .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGEDiovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
Diovan HCT may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy .
Diovan HCT may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals .
The choice of Diovan HCT as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks .
Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events ( such as strokes , heart attacks , and heart failure ) , kidney failure , and vision problems , so prompt treatment is clinically relevant .
The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure , the target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy .
Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient ’ s risk .
Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with Diovan HCT compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with Diovan HCT 320 / 25 mg , based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure .
The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling .
The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For example , a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160 / 100 mmHg has about a 41 % likelihood of achieving a goal of less than 140 mmHg ( systolic ) and 60 % likelihood of achieving less than 90 mmHg ( diastolic ) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50 % ( systolic ) or 57 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on Diovan HCT rises to about 84 % ( systolic ) or 80 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23 % ( systolic ) or 36 % ( diastolic ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONSDiovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
ADVERSE REACTIONS6 . 1 Clinical Trials ExperienceBecause clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Hypertension Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) has been evaluated for safety in more than 5 , 700 patients , including over 990 treated for over 6 months , and over 370 for over 1 year .
Adverse experiences have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions with Diovan HCT was comparable to placebo .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose - related nor related to gender , age , or race .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2 . 3 % of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide patients and 3 . 1 % of placebo patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Diovan HCT were headache and dizziness .
The only adverse reaction that occurred in controlled clinical trials in at least 2 % of patients treated with Diovan HCT and at a higher incidence in valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 4372 ) than placebo ( n = 262 ) patients was nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 4 % vs . 1 . 9 % ) .
Dose - related orthostatic effects were seen in fewer than 1 % of patients .
In individual trials , a dose - related increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with Diovan HCT .
Other adverse reactions that have been reported with valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide ( > 0 . 2 % of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide patients in controlled clinical trials ) without regard to causality , are listed below : Cardiovascular : Palpitations and tachycardia Ear and Labyrinth : Tinnitus and vertigo Gastrointestinal : Dyspepsia , diarrhea , flatulence , dry mouth , nausea , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , and vomiting General and Administration Site Conditions : Asthenia , chest pain , fatigue , peripheral edema and pyrexia Infections and Infestations : Bronchitis , bronchitis acute , influenza , gastroenteritis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection and urinary tract infection Investigations : Blood urea increased Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , back pain , muscle cramps , myalgia , and pain in extremity Nervous System : Dizziness postural , paresthesia , and somnolence Psychiatric : Anxiety and insomnia Renal and Urinary : Pollakiuria Reproductive System : Erectile dysfunction Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal : Dyspnea , cough , nasal congestion , pharyngolaryngeal pain and sinus congestion Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue : Hyperhidrosis and rash Vascular : Hypotension Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included abnormal vision , anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , constipation , depression , dehydration , decreased libido , dysuria , epistaxis , flushing , gout , increased appetite , muscle weakness , pharyngitis , pruritus , sunburn , syncope , and viral infection Valsartan : In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo , the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE inhibitor group ( 7 . 9 % ) than in the groups who received valsartan ( 2 . 6 % ) or placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
In a 129 - patient trial limited to patients who had had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors , the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan , hydrochlorothiazide , or lisinopril were 20 % , 19 % , 69 % respectively ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included chest pain , syncope , anorexia , vomiting , and angioedema .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Other adverse reactions that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body As A Whole : weakness Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation ; Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia ; Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions ; Metabolic : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia ; Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness ; Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ; Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis ; Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Initial Therapy - Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 140 mmHg ) , the overall pattern of adverse reactions reported through six weeks of follow - up was similar in patients treated with Diovan HCT as initial therapy and in patients treated with valsartan as initial therapy .
Comparing the groups treated with Diovan HCT ( force - titrated to 320 / 25 mg ) and valsartan ( force - titrated to 320 mg ) , dizziness was observed in 6 % and 2 % of patients , respectively .
Hypotension was observed in 1 % of those patients receiving Diovan HCT and 0 % of patients receiving valsartan .
There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group .
Laboratory changes with Diovan HCT as initial therapy in patients with severe hypertension were similar to those reported with Diovan HCT in patients with less severe hypertension [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing ExperienceThe following additional adverse reactions have been reported in valsartan or valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide postmarketing experience : Hypersensitivity : There are rare reports of angioedema ; Digestive : Elevated liver enzymes and very rare reports of hepatitis ; Renal : Impaired renal function ; Clinical Laboratory Tests : Hyperkalemia ; Dermatologic : Alopecia ; Vascular : Vasculitis ; Nervous System : Syncope .
Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure 10 OVERDOSAGEValsartan – Hydrochlorothiazide : Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
Depressed level of consciousness , circulatory collapse and shock have been reported .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by dialysis .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In rats and marmosets , single oral doses of valsartan up to 1524 and 762 mg / kg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 476 and 238 mg / kg , respectively , were very well tolerated without any treatment - related effects .
These no adverse effect doses in rats and marmosets , respectively , represent 46 . 5 and 23 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of valsartan and 188 and 113 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day valsartan in combination with 25 mg / day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 - kg patient . )
Valsartan : Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg in rats and up to 1000 mg / kg in marmosets , except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose ( 60 and 31 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Hydrochlorothiazide : The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats , which represents 2027 and 4054 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Valsartan has much greater affinity ( about 20 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT1 receptor about one 200 th that of valsartan itself .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
12 . 2 PharmacodynamicsValsartan : Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions .
An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80 % at peak with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
No information on the effect of larger doses is available .
Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2 - to 3 - fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients .
Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan ; very little effect on serum potassium was observed .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients with stable renal insufficiency and patients with renovascular hypertension , valsartan had no clinically significant effects on glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , creatinine clearance , or renal plasma flow .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients , valsartan had no notable effects on total cholesterol , fasting triglycerides , fasting serum glucose , or uric acid .
Hydrochlorothiazide : After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
12 . 3 PharmacokineticsValsartan : Valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
Valsartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration , with an average elimination half - life of about 6 hours .
Absolute bioavailability for the capsule formulation is about 25 % ( range 10 % - 35 % ) .
Food decreases the exposure ( as measured by AUC ) to valsartan by about 40 % and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) by about 50 % .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range .
Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazide diuretics are eliminated by the kidney , with a terminal half - life of 5 - 15 hours .
Geriatric : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan is higher by 70 % and the half - life is longer by 35 % in the elderly than in the young .
No dosage adjustment is necessary [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Gender : Pharmacokinetics of valsartan does not differ significantly between males and females .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Renal Insufficiency : There is no apparent correlation between renal function ( measured by creatinine clearance ) and exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment .
Consequently , dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild - to - moderate renal dysfunction .
No studies have been performed in patients with severe impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance greater than 10 mL / min ) .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In the case of severe renal disease , exercise care with dosing of valsartan [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In a study of patients with impaired renal function ( mean creatinine clearance of 19 mL / min ) , the half - life of hydrochlorothiazide elimination was lengthened to 21 hours .
Hepatic Insufficiency : On average , patients with mild - to - moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure ( measured by AUC values ) to valsartan of healthy volunteers ( matched by age , sex , and weight ) .
In general , no dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild - to - moderate liver disease .
Care should be exercised in patients with liver disease [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Valsartan : The steady state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small ( 17 L ) , indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively .
Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins ( 95 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Metabolism Valsartan : The primary metabolite , accounting for about 9 % of dose , is valeryl 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
The enzyme ( s ) responsible for valsartan metabolism have not been identified but do not seem to be CYP 450 isozymes .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Is not metabolized .
Excretion Valsartan : Valsartan , when administered as an oral solution , is primarily recovered in feces ( about 83 % of dose ) and urine ( about 13 % of dose ) .
The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug , with only about 20 % of dose recovered as metabolites .
Following intravenous administration , plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L / h and its renal clearance is 0 . 62 L / h ( about 30 % of total clearance ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated as unchanged drug within 24 hours .
The elimination half - life is between 5 . 8 and 18 . 9 hours 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION2 . 1 General ConsiderationsThe side effects of valsartan are generally rare and appear independent of dose .
Those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Dose once - daily .
Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose .
Diovan HCT may be administered with or without food .
Diovan HCT may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Elderly patients : No initial dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients .
Renal impairment : The usual regimens of therapy with Diovan HCT may be followed as long as the patient ’ s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so Diovan HCT is not recommended .
Hepatic impairment : Care should be exercised with dosing of Diovan HCT in patients with hepatic impairment .
Start with a low dose and titrate slowly in patients with hepatic impairment [ See Impaired Hepatic Function ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Add - On TherapyA patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan ( or another ARB ) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with Diovan HCT .
A patient who experiences dose - limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to Diovan HCT containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions .
The clinical response to Diovan HCT should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 / 25 mg .
2 . 3 Replacement TherapyDiovan HCT may be substituted for the titrated components .
2 . 4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is Diovan HCT 160 / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 / 25 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Diovan HCT is not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLINGDiovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is available as non - scored tablets containing valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg and 320 / 25 mg .
strengths are available as follows .
80 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Light orange , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed CG on one side and HGH on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 0078 - 0314 - 34 Unit Dose ( blister pack ) NDC 0078 - 0314 - 06 Box of 100 ( strips of 10 ) 160 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Dark red , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed CG on one side and HHH on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 0078 - 0315 - 34 Unit Dose ( blister pack ) NDC 0078 - 0315 - 06 Box of 100 ( strips of 10 ) Unit Dose ( blister Pack of 30 ) NDC 0078 - 0315 - 15 160 / 25 mgTablet - Brown orange , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed NVR on one side and HXH on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 0078 - 0383 - 34 Unit Dose ( blister pack ) NDC 0078 - 0383 - 06 Box of 100 ( strips of 10 ) Unit Dose ( blister pack of 30 ) NDC 0078 - 0383 - 15 320 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Pink , ovaloid with beveled edge , debossed NVR on one side and HIL on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 0078 - 0471 - 34 Unit Dose ( blister pack ) NDC 0078 - 0471 - 06 Box of 100 ( strips of 10 ) Unit Dose ( blister pack of 30 ) NDC 0078 - 0471 - 15 320 / 25 mgTablet - Yellow , ovaloid with beveled edge , debossed NVR on one side and CTI on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 0078 - 0472 - 34 Unit Dose ( blister pack ) NDC 0078 - 0472 - 06 Box of 100 ( strips of 10 ) Unit Dose ( blister pack of 30 ) NDC 0078 - 0472 - 15 Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION17 . 1 Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told that use of drugs like Diovan HCT that act on the renin - angiotensin system during pregnancy can cause serious problems in the fetus and infant including : low blood pressure , poor development of skull bones , kidney failure and death .
Discuss other treatment options with female patients planning to become pregnant .
Women using Diovan HCT who become pregnant should notify their physician as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving Diovan HCT should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , Diovan HCT should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Potassium Supplements : A patient receiving Diovan HCT should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
WARNING : AVOID USE IN PREGNANCYWhen pregnancy is detected , discontinue DiovanHCT ® as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] PATIENT INFORMATION DIOVANHCT ( DYE ’ - o - van HCT ) ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide ) Tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with DIOVAN HCT before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition and treatment .
If you have any questions about DIOVAN HCT , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about DIOVANHCT ?
If you become pregnant , stop taking DIOVANHCT and call your doctor right away .
DIOVANHCT can harm an unborn baby causing injury and even death .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options to lower your high blood pressure before taking DIOVAN HCT .
What is DIOVANHCT ?
DIOVAN HCT contains two prescription medicines : • valsartan , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) • hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a water pill ( diuretic ) DIOVAN HCT may be used to lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults - • when one medicine to lower your high blood pressure is not enough • as the first medicine to lower high blood pressure if your doctor decides you are likely to need more than one medicine .
DIOVAN HCT has not been studied in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take DIOVANHCT ?
Do not take DIOVANHCT if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in DIOVAN HCT .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in DIOVAN HCT .
• make less urine due to kidney problems • are allergic to medicines that contain sulfonamides .
What should I tell my doctor before taking DIOVANHCT ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
• are breast - feeding .
DIOVAN HCT passes into breast milk .
You should choose either to take DIOVAN HCT or breast - feed , but not both .
• have liver problems • have kidney problems • have or had gallstones • have Lupus Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines and DIOVAN HCT could affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Especially , tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( diuretics ) • potassium supplements • a salt substitute containing potassium • antidiabetic medicines including insulin • narcotic pain medicines • sleeping pills • lithium , a medicine used in some types of depression ( Eskalith ® , Lithobid ® , Lithium Carbonate , Lithium Citrate ) • aspirin or other medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking one of these medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show to your doctor and pharmacist when a new medicine is prescribed .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you start taking any new medicine .
Your doctor or pharmacist will know what medicines are safe to take together .
How should I take DIOVANHCT ?
• Take DIOVAN HCT exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Take DIOVAN HCT once each day .
• DIOVAN HCT can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much DIOVAN HCT , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking DIOVAN HCT ?
You should not take DIOVAN HCT during pregnancy .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
What are the possible side effects of DIOVANHCT ?
DIOVANHCT may cause serious side effects including : • Harm to an unborn baby causing injury and even death .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you : • take water pills • are on a low salt diet • get dialysis treatments • have heart problems • get sick with vomiting or diarrhea • drink alcohol Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• Worsening liver problems .
Liver problems may get worse in people who already have liver problems and take DIOVAN HCT .
• Allergic reactions .
People with and without allergy problems or asthma who take DIOVAN HCT may get allergic reactions .
• Worsening of Lupus .
Hydrochlorothiazide , one of the medicines in DIOVAN HCT may cause Lupus to become active or worse .
• Fluid and electrolyte ( salt ) problems .
Tell your doctor about any of the following signs and symptoms of fluid and electrolyte problems : • dry mouth • thirst • lack of energy ( lethargic ) • weakness • drowsiness • restlessness • confusion • seizures • muscle pain or cramps • muscle fatigue • very low urine output • fast heartbeat • nausea and vomiting • Kidney problems .
Kidney problems may become worse in people that already have kidney disease .
Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and may need a lower dose of DIOVAN HCT .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
If you have heart failure , your doctor should check your kidney function before prescribing DIOVAN HCT .
• Skin rash .
Call your doctor right away if you have an unusual skin rash .
Other side effects were generally mild and brief .
They generally have not caused patients to stop taking DIOVAN HCT .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of DIOVAN HCT .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store DIOVANHCT ?
• Store DIOVAN HCT tablets at room temperature between 59 oF to 86 oF ( 15 oC to 30 oC ) .
• Keep DIOVAN HCT in a closed container in a dry place .
Keep DIOVANHCT and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about DIOVANHCT Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use DIOVAN HCT for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DIOVAN HCT to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about DIOVAN HCT .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about DIOVAN HCT that is written for health professionals .
For more information about DIOVAN HCT , go to www . DIOVAN . com or call 1 - 866 - 404 - 6359 .
What are the ingredients in DIOVANHCT ?
Active ingredients : Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
DIOVAN HCT can help your blood vessels relax and reduce the amount of water in your body so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood throughout the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
If high blood pressure is not treated , it can lead to stroke , heart attack , heart failure , kidney failure , and vision problems .
Eskalith ® and Lithobid ® are registered trademarks of Noven Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis Revised : MAY 2009 T2009 - 54 / T2008 - 20 DIOVAN LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
