The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 23 % , weight / weight ( w / w ) • Aqua , • Benzoic Acid , • Citral , • Dehydroacetic Acid , • Dicaprylyl Carbonate , • Glycerin , • Glyceryl Oleate , • Lauryl Glucoside , • Limonene , • Linalool • Olus Oil , • Parfum , • Phenoxyethanol , • Polyglyceryl - 2 Dipolyhydroxystearate , • Polysorbate 20 , • Propylene Glycol , • Tetrasodium EDTA Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 23 % w / w .
Purpose : Antibacterial / Antifungal Purpose Antibacterial / Antifungal , Hand Sanitizer Use Antibacterial Wet Wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
For external use only .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds Do not eat or drink while using the product .
Follow all the instructions to avoid risks on human and environmental health .
In case of contact with eyes : If you are wearing contact lenses , remove them immediately . Rinse your eyes with plenty of clean water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Seek a doctor if redness , swelling , itching , or burning occurs on skin Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Provides practical cleaning without the need of water and soap .
It is used for hand cleaning .
Open the label and pick up a wipe .
Gently wipe your hands with antibacterial wipe .
No rising required • Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store the product dry , cool , clean place and keep away from direct sunlight Inactive ingredients Aqua , Benzoic Acid , Citral , Dehydroacetic Acid , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Oleate , Lauryl Glucoside , Limonene , Linalool Olus Oil , Parfum , Phenoxyethanol , Polyglyceryl - 2 Dipolyhydroxystearate , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
