Active ingredient Coal Tar 2 % ( from Coal Tar Topical Solution , USP 20 % ) Purpose Psoriasis / Seborrheic Dermatitis Treatment Uses For the relief of symptoms associated with psoriasis and / or seborrheic dermatitis including itching , scaling , flaking , redness and irritation of the skin .
Helps prevent recurrence .
Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use • for prolonged periods • if condition covers a large area of the body • around the rectum or in the genital area or groin • with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • condition does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product , as it may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application .
Warning : This product contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Read all package directions and warnings before use .
• Use only as directed .
• Apply ( gently massage in ) a small amount of Psoriasin to affected areas .
• Apply one to four times daily or as directed by a doctor .
• Apply to thoroughly dry skin .
• Not recommended for scalp or hairline areas .
• The active ingredient , coal tar , in Psoriasin Ointment may affect very light hair color ; test first on a few strands of hair before broader application to areas where light colored hair is present .
• Wash affected areas at least daily with mild soap and warm water and dry thoroughly .
• Intended for use by normally healthy adults only .
• Persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by a doctor .
Other information You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients Ethanol , petrolatum , polysorbate 80 .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 Psoriasin Ointment Insert PSORIASIN DEEP MOISTURIZING OINTMENT DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED • Stops Psoriasis itching , scaling , redness • Can complement topical steroids • Visible results in just days • Helps prevent recurrence Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment treats psoriasis symptoms where they start , to help stop the itching , flaking , redness and related discomforts associated with psoriasis .
Formulated in a soothing ointment base , it penetrates the skin while the rich moisturizing ingredients help create a barrier to lock in moisture for hours - so it ' s great for overnight use .
Use Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment to relieve symptoms of psoriasis and to help restore your skin to a more natural looking appearance .
How Coal Tar Works The coal tar in Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment slows down the excessive skin cell production that is the root cause of psoriasis symptoms .
No other FDA compliant non - prescription drug ingredient works this way .
Slowing excessive skin cell production means it can help reduce the itching , scaling and redness of psoriasis .
With regular use as directed , Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment can even help prevent recurrence of psoriasis symptoms .
And coal tar can be used to complement topical steroid therapies .
The Role of Topical Steroids Topical steroids - similar to the natural corticosteroid hormones produced by the andrenal glands - are a frequently used psoriasis symptom treatment .
Topical steroids are used as anti - inflammatory agents to reduce the swelling and redness of lesions .
Although topical steroids can produce rapid symptom relief , continuous use of them may cause potential side effects such as skin thinning .
Topical Therapy Choices for Psoriasis Symptom Control Due to the well documented side effects of topical steroids , some experts recommend using intermittent therapy ( also called weekend or pulse therapy ) .
This type of treatment involves applying a topical steroid for three consecutive days each week followed by four days of a coal tar medication like Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment .
Ask your doctor if this approach might be right for you .
PSORIASIS SELF - CARE TIPS In addition to psoriasis treatments recommended by a doctor , you can help reduce psoriasis symptoms by using self - care approaches , including : Keep Skin Moisturized Using a moisturizer is an important part of self - care for psoriasis .
Dry skin makes irritation and itching caused by psoriasis worse than it needs to be .
A vicious cycle can result : dry skin can cause itching and scratching , leading to new psoriasis patches developing on the irritated skin .
Dermatologists recommend ointments and heavy creams to lock water into the skin .
Bathe with Care Too many baths and showers can dry your skin .
Here are a few suggestions : • Do n't bathe or shower with hot water , which can irritate .
Use lukewarm water instead .
• Do n't dry off by rubbing with a towel .
Pat yourself somewhat dry and then apply cream .
• Plain water can dry your skin .
Adding salts , oil or finely ground oatmeal to bath water can help to soothe your skin .
• Take fewer showers and baths .
They can strip your skin of natural oils .
Bathe every other day or every third day , especially during the winter months .
Reduce Stress Stress can cause psoriasis to flare for the first time or aggravate existing psoriasis .
Relaxation and stress reduction may help prevent stress from making your psoriasis worse .
• Engage in relaxation techniques , such as yoga , meditation , or massage • Excercise regularly • Get enough sleep Be Smart About Sunlight The ultraviolet rays in sunlight slow the growth of skin cells , so getting moderate doses of sun is good .
But make it brief and use sunscreen , because sunburn can trigger psoriasis flare - ups .
Some medications can make your skin more sensitive to ultraviolet rays , so talk to your doctor first .
Stick to the Plan Applying creams or ointments day after day can be inconvenient .
But compliance is the key for topical therapies .
Once you have a topical treatment regimen that ' s working for you , making it part of your daily routine can improve results .
Also , topical therapies help you avoid the potential side effects of systemic treatments for psoriasis .
The active ingredient in Psoriasin Deep Moisturizing Ointment has been recognized to be safe and effective by an FDA Expert Advisory Panel when used as directed .
USE THE FAMILY OF PSORIASIN PRODUCTS TO BUILD YOUR PSORIASIS TREATMENT REGIMEN : • PSORIASIN PROBLEM SKIN FORMULA CREAM Combines a low dose of coal tar with botanicals & Vitamin D3 in a soothing cream that wo n't irritate sensitive skin .
• PSORIASIN DEEP MOISTURIZING OINTMENT Delivers coal tar in a base that locks in moisture for hours to help restore your skin ' s appearance .
• PSORIASIN DAYTIME RELIEF VANISHING GEL Is a quick - drying , low - odor coal tar therapy WWW . PSORIASIN . COM .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
