Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external genital , feminine and anal itching Other uses or the use of the product for more than 7 days should be undertaken only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use in genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor , for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes • Do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • Do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor .
Rectal bleeding occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years : Ask a doctor For external anal and genital itching , adults : When practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age : Ask a doctor .
Other information • Store at 20ºC to 25º C ( 68ºF to 77º F ) • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see crimp of tube Inactive Ingredients Purified Water , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Petrolatum , Glyceryl Stearate , Polysorbate 60 , Sorbitan Stearate , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Disodium Edta PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL HYDROCORTISONE ANTI - ITCH CREAM NET WT 0 . 5 OZ .
( 14 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
