Injection , USP Fliptop Vial MUST BE DILUTED PRIOR TO ADMINISTRATION DESCRIPTION Dopamine , a sympathomimetic amine vasopressor , is the naturally occurring immediate precursor of norepinephrine .
Dopamine hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder , which may have a slight odor of hydrochloric acid .
It is freely soluble in water and soluble in alcohol .
Dopamine HCl is sensitive to alkalies , iron salts , and oxidizing agents .
Chemically it is designated as 4 - ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol hydrochloride , and its molecular formula is C 8 H 11 NO 2 • HCl .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and the molecular weight is 189 . 64 .
Dopamine hydrochloride injection is a clear , practically colorless , sterile , pyrogen - free , aqueous solution of dopamine HCl for intravenous infusion after dilution .
Each milliliter of the 40 mg / mL preparation contains 40 mg of dopamine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 32 . 31 mg of dopamine base ) .
Each milliliter of preparation contains the following : Sodium metabisulfite 9 mg added as an antioxidant ; citric acid , anhydrous 10 mg ; and sodium citrate , dihydrate 5 mg added as a buffer .
May contain additional citric acid and / or sodium citrate for pH adjustment .
pH is 3 . 3 ( 2 . 5 to 5 . 0 ) .
Dopamine must be diluted in an appropriate sterile parenteral solution before intravenous administration .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dopamine is a natural catecholamine formed by the decarboxylation of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) .
It is a precursor to norepinephrine in noradrenergic nerves and is also a neurotransmitter in certain areas of the central nervous system , especially in the nigrostriatal tract , and in a few peripheral sympathetic nerves .
Dopamine produces positive chronotropic and inotropic effects on the myocardium , resulting in increased heart rate and cardiac contractility .
This is accomplished directly by exerting an agonist action on beta - adrenoceptors and indirectly by causing release of norepinephrine from storage sites in sympathetic nerve endings .
Dopamine ' s onset of action occurs within five minutes of intravenous administration , and with dopamine ' s plasma half - life of about two minutes , the duration of action is less than ten minutes .
However , if monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors are present , the duration may increase to one hour .
The drug is widely distributed in the body but does not cross the blood - brain barrier to a significant extent .
Dopamine is metabolized in the liver , kidney , and plasma by MAO and catechol - O - methyltransferase to the inactive compounds homovanillic acid ( HVA ) and 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylacetic acid .
About 25 % of the dose is taken up into specialized neurosecretory vesicles ( the adrenergic nerve terminals ) , where it is hydroxylated to form norepinephrine .
It has been reported that about 80 % of the drug is excreted in the urine within 24 hours , primarily as HVA and its sulfate and glucuronide conjugates and as 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylacetic acid .
A very small portion is excreted unchanged .
The predominant effects of dopamine are dose - related , although it should be noted that actual response of an individual patient will largely depend on the clinical status of the patient at the time the drug is administered .
At low rates of infusion ( 0 . 5 – 2 mcg / kg / min ) dopamine causes vasodilation that is presumed to be due to a specific agonist action on dopamine receptors ( distinct from alpha - and beta - adrenoceptors ) in the renal , mesenteric , coronary , and intracerebral vascular beds .
At these dopamine receptors , haloperidol is an antagonist .
The vasodilation in these vascular beds is accompanied by increased glomerular filtration rate , renal blood flow , sodium excretion , and urine flow .
Hypotension sometimes occurs .
An increase in urinary output produced by dopamine is usually not associated with a decrease in osmolality of the urine .
At intermediate rates of infusion ( 2 – 10 mcg / kg / min ) dopamine acts to stimulate the beta 1 - adrenoceptors , resulting in improved myocardial contractility , increased SA rate and enhanced impulse conduction in the heart .
There is little , if any , stimulation of the beta 2 - adrenoceptors ( peripheral vasodilation ) .
Dopamine causes less increase in myocardial oxygen consumption than isoproterenol , and its use is not usually associated with a tachyarrhythmia .
Clinical studies indicate that it usually increases systolic and pulse pressure with either no effect or a slight increase in diastolic pressure .
Blood flow to the peripheral vascular beds may decrease while mesenteric flow increases due to increased cardiac output .
Total peripheral resistance ( alpha effects ) at low and intermediate doses is usually unchanged .
At higher rates of infusion ( 10 – 20 mcg / kg / min ) there is some effect on alpha - adrenoceptors , with consequent vasoconstrictor effects and a rise in blood pressure .
The vasoconstrictor effects are first seen in the skeletal muscle vascular beds , but with increasing doses , they are also evident in the renal and mesenteric vessels .
At very high rates of infusion ( above 20 mcg / kg / min ) , stimulation of alpha - adrenoceptors predominates and vasoconstriction may compromise the circulation of the limbs and override the dopaminergic effects of dopamine , reversing renal dilation and naturesis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dopamine HCl is indicated for the correction of hemodynamic imbalances present in the shock syndrome due to myocardial infarction , trauma , endotoxic septicemia , open - heart surgery , renal failure , and chronic cardiac decompensation as in congestive failure .
Patients most likely to respond adequately to dopamine HCl are those in whom physiological parameters , such as urine flow , myocardial function , and blood pressure , have not undergone profound deterioration .
Multiclinic trials indicate that the shorter the time interval between onset of signs and symptoms and initiation of therapy with blood volume correction and dopamine HCl , the better the prognosis .
Where appropriate , blood volume restoration with a suitable plasma expander or whole blood should be accomplished prior to administration of dopamine HCl .
Poor Perfusion of Vital Organs – Urine flow appears to be one of the better diagnostic signs by which adequacy of vital organ perfusion can be monitored .
Nevertheless , the physician should also observe the patient for signs of reversal of confusion or reversal of comatose condition .
Loss of pallor , increase in toe temperature , and / or adequacy of nail bed capillary filling may also be used as indices of adequate dosage .
Clinical studies have shown that when dopamine HCl is administered before urine flow has diminished to levels of approximately 0 . 3 mL / minute , prognosis is more favorable .
Nevertheless , in a number of oliguric or anuric patients , administration of dopamine HCl has resulted in an increase in urine flow , which in some cases reached normal levels .
Dopamine HCl may also increase urine flow in patients whose output is within normal limits and thus may be of value in reducing the degree of pre - existing fluid accumulation .
It should be noted that at doses above those optimal for the individual patient , urine flow may decrease , necessitating reduction of dosage .
Low Cardiac Output – Increased cardiac output is related to dopamine ' s direct inotropic effect on the myocardium .
Increased cardiac output at low or moderate doses appears to be related to a favorable prognosis .
Increase in cardiac output has been associated with either static or decreased systemic vascular resistance ( SVR ) .
Static or decreased SVR associated with low or moderate movements in cardiac output is believed to be a reflection of differential effects on specific vascular beds with increased resistance in peripheral beds ( e . g . , femoral ) and concomitant decreases in mesenteric and renal vascular beds .
Redistribution of blood flow parallels these changes so that an increase in cardiac output is accompanied by an increase in mesenteric and renal blood flow .
In many instances the renal fraction of the total cardiac output has been found to increase .
Increase in cardiac output produced by dopamine is not associated with substantial decreases in systemic vascular resistance as may occur with isoproterenol .
Hypotension – Hypotension due to inadequate cardiac output can be managed by administration of low to moderate doses of dopamine HCl which have little effect on SVR .
At high therapeutic doses , dopamine ' s alpha - adrenergic activity becomes more prominent and thus may correct hypotension due to diminished SVR .
As in the case of other circulatory decompensation states , prognosis is better in patients whose blood pressure and urine flow have not undergone profound deterioration .
Therefore , it is suggested that the physician administer dopamine HCl as soon as a definite trend toward decreased systolic and diastolic pressure becomes evident .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dopamine HCl should not be used in patients with pheochromocytoma .
Dopamine HCl should not be administered to patients with uncorrected tachyarrhythmias or ventricular fibrillation .
WARNINGS Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Do NOT add dopamine HCl to any alkaline diluent solution since the drug is inactivated in alkaline solution .
Patients who have been receiving MAO inhibitors prior to the administration of dopamine HCl will require substantially reduced dosage .
See Drug Interactions below .
PRECAUTIONS General • Monitoring – Careful monitoring of the following indices is necessary during dopamine HCl infusion , as with any adrenergic agent : blood pressure , urine flow , and , when possible , cardiac output and pulmonary wedge pressure .
• Hypovolemia – Prior to treatment with dopamine HCl , hypovolemia should be fully corrected , if possible , with either whole blood or plasma as indicated .
Monitoring of central venous pressure or left ventricular filling pressure may be helpful in detecting and treating hypovolemia .
• Hypoxia , Hypercapnia , Acidosis – These conditions , which may also reduce the effectiveness and / or increase the incidence of adverse effects of dopamine , must be identified and corrected prior to , or concurrently with , administration of dopamine HCl .
• Decreased Pulse Pressure – If a disproportionate increase in diastolic blood pressure and a marked decrease in pulse pressure are observed in patients receiving dopamine HCl , the rate of infusion should be decreased and the patient observed carefully for further evidence of predominant vasoconstrictor activity , unless such effect is desired .
• Ventricular Arrhythmias – If an increased number of ectopic beats are observed , the dose should be reduced if possible .
• Hypotension – At lower infusion rates , if hypotension occurs , the infusion rate should be rapidly increased until adequate blood pressure is obtained .
If hypotension persists , dopamine HCl should be discontinued and a more potent vasoconstrictor agent such as norepinephrine should be administered .
• Extravasation – Dopamine HCl should be infused into a large vein whenever possible to prevent the possibility of extravasation into tissue adjacent to the infusion site .
Extravasation may cause necrosis and sloughing of surrounding tissue .
Large veins of the antecubital fossa are preferred to veins in the dorsum of the hand or ankle .
Less suitable infusion sites should be used only if the patient ' s condition requires immediate attention .
The physician should switch to more suitable sites as rapidly as possible .
The infusion site should be continuously monitored for free flow .
• Occlusive Vascular Disease – Patients with a history of occlusive vascular disease ( for example , atherosclerosis , arterial embolism , Raynaud ' s disease , cold injury , diabetic endarteritis , and Buerger ' s disease ) should be closely monitored for any changes in color or temperature of the skin in the extremities .
If a change in skin color or temperature occurs and is thought to be the result of compromised circulation in the extremities , the benefits of continued dopamine HCl infusion should be weighed against the risk of possible necrosis .
This condition may be reversed by either decreasing the rate or discontinuing the infusion .
• IMPORTANT • Antidote for Peripheral Ischemia : To prevent sloughing and necrosis in ischemic areas , the area should be infiltrated as soon as possible with 10 to 15 mL of saline solution containing from 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate , an adrenergic blocking agent .
A syringe with a fine hypodermic needle should be used , and the solution liberally infiltrated throughout the ischemic area .
Sympathetic blockade with phentolamine causes immediate and conspicuous local hyperemic changes if the area is infiltrated within 12 hours .
Therefore , phentolamine should be given as soon as possible after the extravasation is noted .
• Weaning – When discontinuing the infusion , it may be necessary to gradually decrease the dose of dopamine HCl while expanding blood volume with intravenous fluids , since sudden cessation may result in marked hypotension .
Drug Interactions • Because dopamine is metabolized by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) , inhibition of this enzyme prolongs and potentiates the effect of dopamine .
Patients who have been treated with MAO inhibitorswithin two to three weeks prior to the administration of dopamine HCl should receive initial doses of dopamine HCl no greater than one - tenth ( 1 / 10 ) of the usual dose .
• Concurrent administration of dopamine HCl and diuretic agents may produce an additive or potentiating effect on urine flow .
• Tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the pressor response to adrenergic agents .
• Cardiac effects of dopamine are antagonized by beta - adrenergic blocking agents , such as propranolol and metoprolol .
The peripheral vasoconstriction caused by high doses of dopamine HCl is antagonized by alpha - adrenergic blocking agents .
Dopamine - induced renal and mesenteric vasodilation is not antagonized by either alpha - or beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
• Haloperidol appears to have strong central antidopaminergic properties .
Haloperidol and haloperidol - like drugs suppress the dopaminergic renal and mesenteric vasodilation induced at low rates of dopamine infusion .
• Cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability and may sensitize the myocardium to the action of certain intravenously administered catecholamines , such as dopamine .
This interaction appears to be related both to pressor activity and to beta - adrenergic stimulating properties of these catecholamines and may produce ventricular arrhythmias and hypertension .
Therefore , EXTREME CAUTION should be exercised when administering dopamine HCl to patients receiving cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics .
It has been reported that results of studies in animals indicate that dopamine - induced ventricular arrhythmias during anesthesia can be reversed by propranolol .
• The concomitant use of vasopressors and some oxytocic drugs may result in severe persistent hypertension .
See Labor and Delivery below .
• Administration of phenytoin to patients receiving dopamine HCl has been reported to lead to hypotension and bradycardia .
It is suggested that in patients receiving dopamine HCl , alternatives to phenytoin should be used if anticonvulsant therapy is needed .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Animal studies have revealed no evidence of teratogenic effects due to dopamine .
However , in one study , administration of dopamine HCl to pregnant rats resulted in a decreased survival rate of the newborn and a potential for cataract formation in the survivors .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women and it is not known if dopamine crosses the placental barrier .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if , in the judgment of the physician , the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery In obstetrics , if vasopressor drugs are used to correct hypotension or are added to a local anesthetic solution , some oxytocic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension and may even cause rupture of a cerebral blood vessel to occur during the postpartum period .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when dopamine HCl is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Dopamine HCl has been used in a limited number of pediatric patients , but such use has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there are not enough data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Cardiovascular System : ventricular arrhythmia atrial fibrillation ectopic beats tachycardia anginal pain palpitation cardiac conduction abnormalities widened QRS complex bradycardia hypotension hypertension vasoconstriction Respiratory System : dyspnea Gastrointestinal System : nausea vomiting Metabolic / Nutritional System : azotemia Central Nervous System : headache anxiety Dermatological System : piloerection Other : Gangrene of the extremities has occurred when high doses were administered for prolonged periods or in patients with occlusive vascular disease receiving low doses of dopamine HCl .
OVERDOSAGE In the case of accidental overdosage , as evidenced by excessive elevation of blood pressure , reduce rate of administration or temporarily discontinue dopamine HCl until patient ' s condition stabilizes .
Since dopamine ' s duration of action is quite short , no additional remedial measures are usually necessary .
If these measures fail to stabilize the patient ' s condition , use of the short - acting alpha - adrenergic blocking agent phentolamine should be considered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION WARNING : This is a potent drug ; it must be diluted before administration to the patient .
Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is administered ( only after dilution ) by intravenous infusion .
Suggested Dilution – For the 40 mg / mL preparation , transfer by aseptic technique the contents containing either 5 mL , 200 mg or 10 mL , 400 mg of Dopamine Hydrochloride to either a 250 mL or 500 mL bottle of one of the sterile intravenous solutions listed below : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and Lactated Ringer ' s Injection Sodium Lactate Injection , USP 1 / 6 Molar Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP The resultant dilutions are summarized in the following chart : Concentration of Dopamine Hydrochloride 40 mg / mL Volume of Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection , USP 5 mL 10 mL 250 mL Bottle of I . V . Solution 800 mcg / mL 1600 mcg / mL 500 mL Bottle of I . V . Solution 400 mcg / mL 800 mcg / mL 1000 mL Bottle of I . V . Solution 200 mcg / mL 400 mcg / mL Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection , USP has been found to be stable for a minimum of 24 hours after dilution in the foregoing intravenous solutions .
However , as with all intravenous admixtures , dilution should be made just prior to administration .
Do NOT add Dopamine Hydrochloride to Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP or other alkaline intravenous solutions , since the drug is inactivated in alkaline solution .
Rate of Administration – Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection , USP after dilution , is administered intravenously by infusion via a suitable intravenous catheter or needle .
When administering Dopamine Hydrochloride ( or any potent medication ) by continuous intravenous infusion , it is advisable to use a precision volume control intravenous set .
Each patient must be individually titrated to the desired hemodynamic or renal response to dopamine .
In titrating to the desired increase in systolic blood pressure , the optimum dosage rate for renal response may be exceeded , thus necessitating a reduction in rate after the hemodynamic condition is stabilized .
Administration at rates greater than 50 mcg / kg / min have safely been used in advanced circulatory decompensation states .
If unnecessary fluid expansion is of concern , adjustment of drug concentration may be preferred over increasing the flow rate of a less concentrated dilution .
Suggested Regimen : • When appropriate , increase blood volume with whole blood or plasma until central venous pressure is 10 to 15 cm H 2 O or pulmonary wedge pressure is 14 to 18 mm Hg .
• Begin infusion of diluted solution at doses of 2 – 5 mcg / kg / min of Dopamine Hydrochloride in patients who are likely to respond to modest increments of heart force and renal perfusion .
In more seriously ill patients , begin infusion of diluted solution at doses of 5 mcg / kg / min of Dopamine Hydrochloride and increase gradually using 5 to 10 mcg / kg / min increments up to a rate of 20 to 50 mcg / kg / min as needed .
If doses in excess of 50 mcg / kg / min are required , it is advisable to check urine output frequently .
Should urinary flow begin to decrease in the absence of hypotension , reduction of dopamine dosage should be considered .
Multiclinic trials have shown that more than 50 percent of patients have been satisfactorily maintained on doses less than 20 mcg / kg / min .
In patients who do not respond to these doses with adequate arterial pressures or urine flow , additional increments of dopamine may be given in an effort to produce an appropriate arterial pressure and central perfusion .
• Treatment of all patients requires constant evaluation of therapy in terms of blood volume , augmentation of cardiac contractility , and distribution of peripheral perfusion .
Dosage of dopamine should be adjusted according to the patient ' s response , with particular attention to diminution of established urine flow rate , increasing tachycardia or development of new dysrhythmias as indices for decreasing or temporarily suspending the dosage .
• As with all potent intravenously administered drugs , care should be taken to control the rate of administration to avoid inadvertent administration of a bolus of the drug .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is supplied as follows ( 40 mg / mL ) : Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) NDC 0409 - 5820 - 01 25 Fliptop Vials in a Tray 200 mg / 5 mL ( 40 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 9104 - 20 25 Fliptop Vials in a Tray 400 mg / 10 mL ( 40 mg / mL ) Avoid contact with alkalies ( including sodium bicarbonate ) , oxidizing agents or iron salts .
Do not use the injection if it is darker than slightly yellow or discolored in any other way .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1154 - 3 . 0 Revised : 02 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL 5 mL Single - dose DOPamine HCl Inj . , USP 200 mg / 5 mL ( 40 mg / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - OUTER PACKAGE 1 x 5 mL Single - dose Fliptop Vial NDC 71872 - 7066 - 1 DOPamine Hydrochloride Inj . , USP 200 mg / 5 mL ( 40 mg / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
