( Potency expressed as Betamethasone ) For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
DESCRIPTION Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has high corticosteroid activity and slight mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 64 mg betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in a lotion base of carbomer homopolymer type B , isopropyl alcohol , and purified water .
Sodium hydroxide is used to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones , secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics - The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Twenty - five pediatric patients ages 6 to 12 years , with atopic dermatitis , were enrolled in an open - label , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis safety study .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 45 % ( range 35 % to 72 % ) .
In 11 of 15 ( 73 % ) evaluable patients , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a < 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol < 18 mcg / dL and an increase of < 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % is a medium - potency corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in these preparations .
PRECAUTIONS General - Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary - free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
In an open - label pediatric study of 15 evaluable patients , of the 11 subjects who showed evidence of suppression , 6 subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % , and 4 of the 6 ( 67 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients - This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
5 .
Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % without first talking to your physician .
Laboratory Tests - The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : • Urinary - free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in - vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in - vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 0 . 5 and 4 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison , respectively .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 0 . 03 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Use of Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % in pediatric patients 12 years of age and younger is not recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
In an open - label study , 11 of 15 ( 73 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 6 years - 12 years old ) using betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % for treatment of atopic dermatitis for 2 - 3 weeks demonstrated adrenal suppression ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % is used as recommended in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria .
Adverse reactions reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with betamethasone dipropionate lotion 0 . 05 % during a pediatric study include : paresthesia ( burning ) , erythema , erythematous rash , and dry skin .
These adverse reactions each occurred in a different patient ; 4 % of the 25 patient population , respectively .
An adverse reaction reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment in 2 different patients , 8 % , of the 25 patients is puritis .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a few drops of Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % to the affected area and massage lightly until it disappears .
Apply twice daily , in the morning and at night .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % is not to be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % is available as follows : 60 mL bottle ( NDC 45802 - 021 - 46 ) Shake well before using .
STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and freezing .
Store in carton until contents are used .
Made in Israel Manufactured by Padagis Yeruham , Israel Distributed By Padagis Allegan , MI 49010 • www . padagis . com Rev 02 - 22 23JA3 RC F5 Principal Display Panel Rx Only Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP , 0 . 05 % ( Potency expressed as Betamethasone ) For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use NET CONTENTS 60 mL ( 56 . 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
