DESCRIPTION Noxifol - D tablet is an orally administered prescription strength folate product for the dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels , Vitamin D levels , or used in improving the nutritional status of patients with folic acid and vitamin D deficiency .
Noxifol - D should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) is a white , crystalline powder , very soluble in water .
Folic acid occurs as a yellow or yellowish - orange crystalline powder and is very soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structural formula of Vitamin D3 and folic acid are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) Folic Acid Each tablet contains : Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin D3 ( Cholecalciferol ) 2500 IU Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Dicalcium Phosphate , Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , Silicon Dioxide , Pharmaceutical Glaze ( Shellac ) , Carmine ( color ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Noxifol - D is indicated for dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels , Vitamin D levels , or used in improving the nutritional status of patients with folic acid and vitamin D deficiency [ 1 ] [ 1 ] This statement has not been evaluated by the FDA .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent disease .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in vivo synthesis of the major biologically active metabolites of vitamin D occurs in two steps .
The first hydroxylation of Vitamin D takes place in the liver ( to 25 - hydroxyvitamin D ) and the second in the kidneys ( to 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D ) .
Vitamin D metabolites promote the active absorption of calcium and phosphorus by the small intestine , thus elevating serum calcium and phosphate levels sufficiently to permit bone mineralization .
Vitamin D metabolites also mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone and probably increase the reabsorption of calcium and perhaps also of phosphate by the renal tubules .
There is a time lag of 10 to 24 hours between the administration of vitamin D and the initiation of its action in the body due to the necessity of synthesis of the active metabolites in the liver and kidneys .
Parathyroid hormone is responsible for the regulation of this metabolism in the kidneys .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions in the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Impairment of thymidylate synthesis in patients with folic acid deficiency is thought to account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megaloblastic and macrocytic anemias .
Folic acid is absorbed rapidly from the small intestine , primarily from the proximal portion .
Naturally occurring conjugated folates are reduced enzymatically to folic acid in the gastrointestinal tract prior to absorption .
Folic acid appears in the plasma approximately 15 to 30 minutes after an oral dose ; peak levels are generally reached within 1 hour .
CONTRAINDCATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Noxifol - D is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia , malabsorption syndrome , abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D , and hypervitaminosis D . WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of an accidental overdose , call a doctor or a poison control center immediately .
Tell your doctor if you have : kidney problems or thyroid disease .
This medication should be used as directed by your physician during pregnancy or while breast - feeding .
Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
There is evidence that the anticonvulsant action of phenytoin is antagonized by folic acid .
A patient whose epilepsy is completely controlled by phenytoin may require increased doses to prevent convulsions if folic acid is given .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Call your doctor if you experience any of the following rare but possible signs of hypervitaminosis D : nausea , vomiting , constipation , loss of appetite , increased thirst , increased urination , mental / mood changes or unusual tiredness .
You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events .
To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information , contact Solutech Pharmaceuticals LLC , at 1 - 877 - 829 - 3135 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily or as directed by a healthcare practitioner .
HOW SUPPLIED Noxifol - D tablets are dispensed in bottles of 30 ct ( NDC 70350 - 2602 - 3 ) Noxifol - D tablets are pink , round , scored tablets with slightly scattered spots and debossed " ST " on one side and plain on the other side .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This product is an Rx only and may be administered only under a physician ' s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
STORAGE KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from heat , light and moisture .
Manufactured for : Solutech Pharmaceuticals LLC Peoria , AZ 85345 Rx only PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tablet Bottle Label NDC 70350 - 2602 - 3 RX ONLY NOXIFOL - D Dietary Supplement 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
