Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions ■ apply liberally { and evenly } 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , polyester - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , arachidyl alcohol , beeswax , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , behenyl alcohol , tocopherol , arachidyl glucoside , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , potassium hydroxide , fragrance , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Dist by Foolhold USA , LLC Landover , MD 20785 1 - 877 - 848 - 8949 ( c ) S & S Brands , LLC Quality guraranteed or your money back .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Ultra Guard Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
* Oxybenzone & Octinoxate Free Principal Panel Display Care One Compare to Coppertone sunscreen Lotion Ultra Guard SPF 50 * SUNSCREEN LOTION SPF 50 UVA / UVB protection BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 • Water - Resistand ( 80 minutes ) • Enriched with moisturizers • Hypoallergenic Reef friendly 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
