DESCRIPTION Probenecid and colchicine contains probenecid , which is a uricosuric agent , and colchicine , which has antigout activity , the mechanism of which is unknown .
Probenecid is the generic name for 4 - [ ( dipropylamino ) sulfonyl ] benzoic acid .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C13H19NO4S M . W . 285 . 36 Probenecid is a white or nearly white , fine , crystalline powder .
It is soluble in dilute alkali , in alcohol , in chloroform , and in acetone ; it is practically insoluble in water and in dilute acids .
Colchicine is an alkaloid obtained from various species of Colchicum .
The chemical name for colchicine is ( S ) - N - ( 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 3 , 10 - tetramethoxy - 9 - oxobenzo [ α ] heptalen - 7 - yl ) acetamide .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H25NO6 M . W . 399 . 44 Colchicine consists of pale yellow scales or powder ; it darkens on exposure to light .
Colchicine is soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol and in chloroform , and slightly soluble in ether .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 500 mg of probenecid and 0 . 5 mg of colchicine .
Each tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Probenecid is a uricosuric and renal tubular blocking agent .
It inhibits the tubular reabsorption of urate , thus increasing the urinary excretion of uric acid and decreasing serum urate levels .
Effective uricosuria reduces the miscible urate pool , retards urate deposition , and promotes resorption of urate deposits .
Probenecid inhibits the tubular secretion of penicillin and usually increases penicillin plasma levels by any route the antibiotic is given .
A 2 - fold to 4 - fold elevation has been demonstrated for various penicillins .
Probenecid also has been reported to inhibit the renal transport of many other compounds including amino hippuric acid ( PAH ) , aminosalicylic acid ( PAS ) , indomethacin , sodium iodomethamate and related iodinated organic acids , 17 - ketosteroids , pantothenic acid , phenolsulfonphthalein ( PSP ) , sulfonamides , and sulfonylureas .
See also Drug Interactions .
Probenecid decreases both hepatic and renal excretion of sulfobromophthalein ( BSP ) .
The tubular reabsorption of phosphorus is inhibited in hypoparathyroid but not in euparathyroid individuals .
Probenecid does not influence plasma concentrations of salicylates , nor the excretion of streptomycin , chloramphenicol , chlortetracycline , oxytetracycline , or neomycin .
The mode of action of colchicine in gout is unknown .
It is not an analgesic , though it relieves pain in acute attacks of gout .
It is not a uricosuric agent and will not prevent progression of gout to chronic gouty arthritis .
It does have a prophylactic , suppressive effect that helps to reduce the incidence of acute attacks and to relieve the residual pain and mild discomfort that patients with gout occasionally feel .
In man and certain other animals , colchicine can produce a temporary leukopenia that is followed by leukocytosis .
Colchicine has other pharmacologic actions in animals : It alters neuromuscular function , intensifies gastrointestinal activity by neurogenic stimulation , increases sensitivity to central depressants , heightens response to sympathomimetic compounds , depresses the respiratory center , constricts blood vessels , causes hypertension by central vasomotor stimulation , and lowers body temperature .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of chronic gouty arthritis when complicated by frequent , recurrent acute attacks of gout .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to this product or to probenecid or colchicine .
Probenecid and colchicine tablets are contraindicated in children under 2 years of age .
Not recommended in persons with known blood dyscrasias or uric acid kidney stones .
Therapy with probenecid and colchicine should not be started until an acute gouty attack has subsided .
Pregnancy Probenecid crosses the placental barrier and appears in cord blood .
Colchicine can arrest cell division in animals and plants .
In certain species of animals under certain conditions , colchicine has produced teratogenic effects .
The possibility of such effects in humans also has been reported .
Because of the colchicine component , probenecid and colchicine is contraindicated in pregnant patients .
The use of any drug in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against the possible hazards .
WARNINGS Exacerbation of gout following therapy with probenecid and colchicine may occur ; in such cases additional colchicine or other appropriate therapy is advisable .
Probenecid increases plasma concentrations of methotrexate in both animals and humans .
In animal studies , increased methotrexate toxicity has been reported .
If probenecid and colchicine is given with methotrexate , the dosage of methotrexate should be reduced and serum levels may need to be monitored .
In patients on probenecid and colchicine the use of salicylates in either small or large doses is contraindicated because it antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid .
The biphasic action of salicylates in the renal tubules accounts for the so - called “ paradoxical effect ” of uricosuric agents .
In patients on probenecid and colchicine who require a mild analgesic agent the use of acetaminophen rather than small doses of salicylates would be preferred .
Rarely , severe allergic reactions and anaphylaxis have been reported with the use of probenecid and colchicine .
Most of these have been reported to occur within several hours after readministration following prior usage of the drug .
The appearance of hypersensitivity reactions requires cessation of therapy with probenecid and colchicine .
Colchicine has been reported to adversely affect spermatogenesis in animals .
Reversible azoospermia has been reported in one patient .
PRECAUTIONS General Hematuria , renal colic , costovertebral pain , and formation of uric acid stones associated with the use of probenecid and colchicine in gouty patients may be prevented by alkalization of the urine and a liberal fluid intake ( see DOSAGE AND ADMlNlSTRATION ) .
In these cases when alkali is administered , the acid - base balance of the patient should be watched .
Use with caution in patients with a history of peptic ulcer .
Probenecid and colchicine has been used in patients with some renal impairment but dosage requirements may be increased .
Probenecid and colchicine may not be effective in chronic renal insufficiency particularly when the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mL / minute or less .
A reducing substance may appear in the urine of patients receiving probenecid .
This disappears with discontinuance of therapy .
Suspected glycosuria should be confirmed by using a test specific for glucose .
Adequate animal studies have not been conducted to determine the carcinogenicity potential of probenecid or this drug combination .
Since colchicine is an established mutagen , its ability to act as a carcinogen must be suspected and administration of probenecid and colchicine should involve a weighing of the benefit - vs - risk when long - term administration is contemplated .
Drug Interactions When probenecid is used to elevate plasma concentrations of penicillin , or other beta - lactams , or when such drugs are given to patients taking probenecid therapeutically , high plasma concentrations of the other drug may increase the incidence of adverse reactions associated with that drug .
In the case of penicillin , or other beta - lactams , psychic disturbances have been reported .
The use of salicylates antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid ( see WARNINGS ) .
The uricosuric action of probenecid is also antagonized by pyrazinamide .
Probenecid produces an insignificant increase in free sulfonamide plasma concentrations but a significant increase in total sulfonamide plasma levels .
Since probenecid decreases the renal excretion of conjugated sulfonamides , plasma concentrations of the latter should be determined from time to time when a sulfonamide and probenecid and colchicine are coadministered for prolonged periods .
Probenecid may prolong or enhance the action of oral sulfonylureas and thereby increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
It has been reported that patients receiving probenecid require significantly less thiopental for induction of anesthesia .
In addition , ketamine and thiopental anesthesia were significantly prolonged in rats receiving probenecid .
The concomitant administration of probenecid increases the mean plasma elimination half - life of a number of drugs which can lead to increased plasma concentrations .
These include agents such as indomethacin , acetaminophen , naproxen , ketoprofen , meclofenamate , lorazepam , and rifampin .
Although the clinical significance of this observation has not been established , a lower dosage of the drug may be required to produce a therapeutic effect , and increases in dosage of the drug in question should be made cautiously and in small increments when probenecid is being co - administrated .
Although specific instances of toxicity due to this potential interaction have not been observed to date , physicians should be alert to this possibility .
Probenecid given concomitantly with sulindac had only a slight effect on plasma sulfide levels , while plasma levels of sulindac and sulfone were increased .
Sulindac was shown to produce a modest reduction in the uricosuric action of probenecid , which probably is not significant under most circumstances .
In animals and in humans , probenecid has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of methotrexate ( see WARNINGS ) .
Falsely high readings for theophylline have been reported in an in vitro study , using the Schack and Waxler technique , when therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and probenecid were added to human plasma .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Probenecid Central Nervous System : headache , dizziness .
Metabolic : precipitation of acute gouty arthritis .
Gastrointestinal : hepatic necrosis , vomiting , nausea , anorexia , sore gums .
Genitourinary : nephrotic syndrome , uric acid stones with or without hematuria , renal colic , costovertebral pain , urinary frequency .
Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , fever , urticaria , pruritus .
Hematologic : aplastic anemia , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia which in some patients could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells , anemia .
Integumentary : dermatitis , alopecia , flushing .
Colchicine Side effects due to colchicine appear to be a function of dosage .
The possibility of increased colchicine toxicity in the presence of hepatic dysfunction should be considered .
The appearance of any of the following symptoms may require reduction of dosage or discontinuance of the drug .
Central Nervous System : peripheral neuritis .
Musculoskeletal : muscular weakness .
Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , or diarrhea may be particularly troublesome in the presence of peptic ulcer or spastic colon .
Hypersensitivity : urticaria .
Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis .
Integumentary : dermatitis , purpura , alopecia .
At toxic doses , colchicine may cause severe diarrhea , generalized vascular damage , and renal damage with hematuria and oliguria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy with probenecid and colchicine should not be started until an acute gouty attack has subsided .
However , if an acute attack is precipitated during therapy , probenecid and colchicine may be continued without changing the dosage , and additional colchicine or other appropriate therapy should be given to control the acute attack .
The recommended adult dosage is 1 tablet of probenecid and colchicine daily for one week , followed by 1 tablet twice a day thereafter .
Some degree of renal impairment may be present in patients with gout .
A daily dosage of 2 tablets may be adequate .
However , if necessary , the daily dosage may be increased by 1 tablet every four weeks within tolerance ( and usually not above 4 tablets per day ) if symptoms of gouty arthritis are not controlled or the 24 hour uric acid excretion is not above 700 mg .
As noted , probenecid may not be effective in chronic renal insufficiency particularly when the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mL / minute or less .
Gastric intolerance may be indicative of overdosage , and may be corrected by decreasing the dosage .
As uric acid tends to crystallize out of an acid urine , a liberal fluid intake is recommended , as well as sufficient sodium bicarbonate ( 3 to 7 . 5 g daily ) or potassium citrate ( 7 . 5 g daily ) to maintain an alkaline urine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Alkalization of the urine is recommended until the serum urate level returns to normal limits and tophaceous deposits disappear , i . e . , during the period when urinary excretion of uric acid is at a high level .
Thereafter , alkalization of the urine and the usual restriction of purine - producing foods may be somewhat relaxed .
Probenecid and colchicine ( or probenecid ) should be continued at the dosage that will maintain normal serum urate levels .
When acute attacks have been absent for six months or more and serum urate levels remain within normal limits , the daily dosage of probenecid and colchicine may be decreased by 1 tablet every six months .
The maintenance dosage should not be reduced to the point where serum urate levels tend to rise .
HOW SUPPLIED Probenecid and Colchicine Tablets USP 500 mg - 0 . 5 mg are bisected , white , capsule - shaped tablets imprinted DAN DAN and 5325 supplied in bottles of 100 .
Dispense in a well closed , light - resistant container with child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Ltd .
Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised : December 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 5325 - 01 Probenecid and Colchicine Tablets USP 500 mg / 0 . 5 mg Actavis 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
