WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue trandolapril as soon as possible .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( See WARNINGS : Fetal Toxicity . )
DESCRIPTION Trandolapril is the ethyl ester prodrug of a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor , trandolaprilat .
Trandolapril is chemically described as ( 2 S , 3 aR , 7 aS ) - 1 - [ ( S ) - N - [ ( S ) - 1 - Carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ] alanyl ] hexahydro - 2 - indolinecarboxylic acid , 1 - ethyl ester .
Its molecular formula is C24H34N2O5 and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] M . W . = 430 . 54 Melting Point = 125 ° C Trandolapril USP is a white or almost white powder that is soluble ( > 100 mg / mL ) in chloroform , dichloromethane , and methanol .
Trandolapril tablets USP contain 1 mg , 2 mg , or 4 mg of trandolapril USP for oral administration .
Each tablet also contains lactose monohydrate , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , povidone , and sodium stearyl fumarate .
In addition 1 mg and 4 mg tablet also contains ferric oxide red and 2 mg tablet contains ferric oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Trandolapril is deesterified to the diacid metabolite , trandolaprilat , which is approximately eight times more active as an inhibitor of ACE activity .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II is a potent peripheral vasoconstrictor that also stimulates secretion of aldosterone by the adrenal cortex and provides negative feedback for renin secretion .
The effect of trandolapril in hypertension appears to result primarily from the inhibition of circulating and tissue ACE activity thereby reducing angiotensin II formation , decreasing vasoconstriction , decreasing aldosterone secretion , and increasing plasma renin .
Decreased aldosterone secretion leads to diuresis , natriuresis , and a small increase of serum potassium .
In controlled clinical trials , treatment with trandolapril alone resulted in mean increases in potassium of 0 . 1 mEq / L .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
ACE is identical to kininase II , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin , a potent peptide vasodilator ; whether increased levels of bradykinin play a role in the therapeutic effect of trandolapril remains to be elucidated .
While the principal mechanism of antihypertensive effect is thought to be through the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , trandolapril exerts antihypertensive actions even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Trandolapril was an effective antihypertensive in all races studied .
Both black patients ( usually a predominantly low - renin group ) and non - black patients responded to 2 to 4 mg of trandolapril .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Pharmacokinetics Trandolapril ’ s ACE - inhibiting activity is primarily due to its diacid metabolite , trandolaprilat .
Cleavage of the ester group of trandolapril , primarily in the liver , is responsible for conversion .
Absolute bioavailability after oral administration of trandolapril is about 10 % as trandolapril and 70 % as trandolaprilat .
After oral trandolapril under fasting conditions , peak trandolapril levels occur at about one hour and peak trandolaprilat levels occur between 4 and 10 hours .
The elimination half - life of trandolapril is about 6 hours .
At steady state , the effective half - life of trandolaprilat is 22 . 5 hours .
Like all ACE inhibitors , trandolaprilat also has a prolonged terminal elimination phase , involving a small fraction of administered drug , probably representing binding to plasma and tissue ACE .
During multiple dosing of trandolapril , there is no significant accumulation of trandolaprilat .
Food slows absorption of trandolapril , but does not affect AUC or Cmax of trandolaprilat or Cmax of trandolapril .
Metabolism and Excretion After oral administration of trandolapril , about 33 % of parent drug and metabolites are recovered in urine , mostly as trandolaprilat , with about 66 % in feces .
The extent of the absorbed dose which is biliary excreted has not been determined .
Plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC of trandolapril and Cmax of trandolaprilat ) are dose proportional over the 1 to 4 mg range , but the AUC of trandolaprilat is somewhat less than dose proportional .
In addition to trandolaprilat , at least 7 other metabolites have been found , principally glucuronides or deesterification products .
Serum protein binding of trandolapril is about 80 % , and is independent of concentration .
Binding of trandolaprilat is concentration - dependent , varying from 65 % at 1000 ng / mL to 94 % at 0 . 1 ng / mL , indicating saturation of binding with increasing concentration .
The volume of distribution of trandolapril is about 18 liters .
Total plasma clearances of trandolapril and trandolaprilat after approximately 2 mg IV doses are about 52 liters / hour and 7 liters / hour respectively .
Renal clearance of trandolaprilat varies from 1 to 4 liters / hour , depending on dose .
Special Populations Pediatric Trandolapril pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in patients < 18 years of age .
Geriatric and Gender Trandolapril pharmacokinetics have been investigated in the elderly ( > 65 years ) and in both genders .
The plasma concentration of trandolapril is increased in elderly hypertensive patients , but the plasma concentration of trandolaprilat and inhibition of ACE activity are similar in elderly and young hypertensive patients .
The pharmacokinetics of trandolapril and trandolaprilat and inhibition of ACE activity are similar in male and female elderly hypertensive patients .
Race Pharmacokinetic differences have not been evaluated in different races .
Renal Insufficiency Compared to normal subjects , the plasma concentrations of trandolapril and trandolaprilat are approximately 2 - fold greater and renal clearance is reduced by about 85 % in patients with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min and in patients on hemodialysis .
Dosage adjustment is recommended in renally impaired patients .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Hepatic Insufficiency Following oral administration in patients with mild to moderate alcoholic cirrhosis , plasma concentrations of trandolapril and trandolaprilat were , respectively , 9 - fold and 2 - fold greater than in normal subjects , but inhibition of ACE activity was not affected .
Lower doses should be considered in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Drug Interactions Trandolapril did not affect the plasma concentration ( pre - dose and 2 hours post - dose ) of oral digoxin ( 0 . 25 mg ) .
Coadministration of trandolapril and cimetidine led to an increase of about 44 % in Cmax for trandolapril , but no difference in the pharmacokinetics of trandolaprilat or in ACE inhibition .
Coadministration of trandolapril and furosemide led to an increase of about 25 % in the renal clearance of trandolaprilat , but no effect was seen on the pharmacokinetics of furosemide or trandolaprilat or on ACE inhibition .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects A single 2 mg dose of trandolapril produces 70 to 85 % inhibition of plasma ACE activity at 4 hours with about 10 % decline at 24 hours and about half the effect manifest at 8 days .
Maximum ACE inhibition is achieved with a plasma trandolaprilat concentration of 2 ng / mL .
ACE inhibition is a function of trandolaprilat concentration , not trandolapril concentration .
The effect of trandolapril on exogenous angiotensin I was not measured .
Hypertension Four placebo - controlled dose response studies were conducted using once - daily oral dosing of trandolapril in doses from 0 . 25 to 16 mg per day in 827 black and non - black patients with mild to moderate hypertension .
The minimal effective once - daily dose was 1 mg in non - black patients and 2 mg in black patients .
Further decreases in trough supine diastolic blood pressure were obtained in non - black patients with higher doses , and no further response was seen with doses above 4 mg ( up to 16 mg ) .
The antihypertensive effect diminished somewhat at the end of the dosing interval , but trough / peak ratios are well above 50 % for all effective doses .
There was a slightly greater effect on the diastolic pressure , but no difference on systolic pressure with b . i . d . dosing .
During chronic therapy , the maximum reduction in blood pressure with any dose is achieved within one week .
Following 6 weeks of monotherapy in placebo - controlled trials in patients with mild to moderate hypertension , once - daily doses of 2 to 4 mg lowered supine or standing systolic / diastolic blood pressure 24 hours after dosing by an average 7 to 10 / 4 to 5 mmHg below placebo responses in non - black patients .
Once - daily doses of 2 to 4 mg lowered blood pressure 4 to 6 / 3 to 4 mmHg in black patients .
Trough to peak ratios for effective doses ranged from 0 . 5 to 0 . 9 .
There were no differences in response between men and women , but responses were somewhat greater in patients under 60 than in patients over 60 years old .
Abrupt withdrawal of trandolapril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
Administration of trandolapril to patients with mild to moderate hypertension results in a reduction of supine , sitting and standing blood pressure to about the same extent without compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted .
( See WARNINGS . )
Use of trandolapril in combination with thiazide diuretics gives a blood pressure lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone , and the additional effect of trandolapril is similar to the effect of monotherapy .
Heart Failure Post Myocardial Infarction or Left Ventricular Dysfunction Post Myocardial Infarction The Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation ( TRACE ) Trial was a Danish , 27 - center , double - blind , placebo controlled , parallel - group study of the effect of trandolapril on all - cause mortality in stable patients with echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction 3 to 7 days after a myocardial infarction .
Subjects with residual ischemia or overt heart failure were included .
Patients tolerant of a test dose of 1 mg trandolapril were randomized to placebo ( n = 873 ) or trandolapril ( n = 876 ) and followed for 24 months .
Among patients randomized to trandolapril , who began treatment on 1 mg , 62 % were successfully titrated to a target dose of 4 mg once daily over a period of weeks .
The use of trandolapril was associated with a 16 % reduction in the risk of all - cause mortality ( p = 0 . 042 ) , largely cardiovascular mortality .
Trandolapril was also associated with a 20 % reduction in the risk of progression of heart failure ( p = 0 . 047 ) , defined by a time - to - first - event analysis of death attributed to heart failure , hospitalization for heart failure , or requirement for open - label ACE inhibitor for the treatment of heart failure .
There was no significant effect of treatment on other end - points : subsequent hospitalization , incidence of recurrent myocardial infarction , exercise tolerance , ventricular function , ventricular dimensions , or NYHA class .
The population in TRACE was entirely Caucasian and had less usage than would be typical in a U . S . population of other post - infarction interventions : 42 % thrombolysis , 16 % beta - adrenergic blockade , and 6 . 7 % PTCA or CABG during the entire period of follow - up .
Blood pressure control , especially in the placebo group , was poor : 47 to 53 % of patients randomized to placebo and 32 to 40 % of patients randomized to trandolapril had blood pressures > 140 / 95 at 90 - day follow - up visits .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Trandolapril tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive medication such as hydrochlorothiazide .
Heart Failure Post Myocardial Infarction or Left - Ventricular Dysfunction Post Myocardial Infarction Trandolapril tablets USP are indicated in stable patients who have evidence of left - ventricular systolic dysfunction ( identified by wall motion abnormalities ) or who are symptomatic from congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction .
Administration of trandolapril to Caucasian patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death ( principally cardiovascular death ) and to decrease the risk of heart failure - related hospitalization ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Heart Failure or Left - Ventricular Dysfunction Post Myocardial Infarction for details of the survival trial ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Trandolapril tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product , in patients with hereditary / idiopathic angioedema and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with trandolapril in patients with diabetes ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Trandolapril tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer trandolapril tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors , including trandolapril , may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions did not occur when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared when the ACE inhibitors were inadver tently readministered .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Head and Neck Angioedema In controlled trials ACE inhibitors ( for which adequate data are available ) cause a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients .
Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors including trandolapril .
Symptoms suggestive of angioedema or facial edema occurred in 0 . 13 % of trandolapril - treated patients .
Two of the four cases were life - threatening and resolved without treatment or with medication ( corticosteroids ) .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue or glottis occurs , treatment with trandolapril should be discontinued immediately , the patient treated in accordance with accepted medical care and carefully observed until the swelling disappears .
In instances where swelling is confined to the face and lips , the condition generally resolves without treatment ; antihistamines may be useful in relieving symptoms .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx , likely to cause airway obstruction , emergency therapy , including but not limited to subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1 , 000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered .
( SeePRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Patients receiving coadministration of an ACE inhibitor with an mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) or a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) may be at increased risk for angioedema .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Hypotension Trandolapril can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Like other ACE inhibitors , trandolapril has only rarely been associated with symptomatic hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been salt - or volume - depleted as a result of prolonged treatment with diuretics , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating treatment with trandolapril .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
In controlled and uncontrolled studies , hypotension was reported as an adverse event in 0 . 6 % of patients and led to discontinuations in 0 . 1 % of patients .
In patients with concomitant congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria or azotemia , and rarely , with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , trandolapril therapy should be started at the recommended dose under close medical supervision .
These patients should be followed closely during the first 2 weeks of treatment and , thereafter , whenever the dosage of trandolapril or diuretic is increased .
( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Care in avoiding hypotension should also be taken in patients with ischemic heart disease , aortic stenosis , or cerebrovascular disease .
If symptomatic hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , normal saline may be administered intravenously .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses ; however , lower doses of trandolapril or reduced concomitant diuretic therapy should be considered .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another ACE inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression rarely in patients with uncomplicated hypertension , but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen - vascular disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of trandolapril are insufficient to show that trandolapril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
As with other ACE inhibitors , periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen - vascular disease and / or renal disease should be considered .
Hepatic Failure ACE inhibitors rarely have been associated with a syndrome of cholestatic jaundice , fulminant hepatic necrosis , and death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue trandolapril as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue trandolapril , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to trandolapril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
Doses of 0 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 9 . 4 mg / m2 / day ) in rabbits , 1000 mg / kg / day ( 7000 mg / m2 / day ) in rats , and 25 mg / kg / day ( 295 mg / m2 / day ) in cynomolgus monkeys did not produce teratogenic effects .
These doses represent 10 and 3 times ( rabbits ) , 1250 and 2564 times ( rats ) , and 312 and 108 times ( monkeys ) the maximum projected human dose of 4 mg based on body - weight and body - surface - area , respectively assuming a 50 kg woman .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including trandolapril , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine have been observed in some patients following ACE inhibitor therapy .
These increases were almost always reversible upon discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when ACE inhibitors have been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of any diuretic and / or the ACE inhibitor may be required .
Evaluation of hypertensive patients should always include assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Hyperkalemia and Potassium - sparing Diuretics In clinical trials , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 6 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 0 . 4 % of hypertensive patients receiving trandolapril .
In most cases , elevated serum potassium levels were isolated values , which resolved despite continued therapy .
None of these patients were discontinued from the trials because of hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes , which should be used cautiously , if at all , with trandolapril .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions . )
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
In controlled trials of trandolapril , cough was present in 2 % of trandolapril patients and 0 % of patients given placebo .
There was no evidence of a relationship to dose .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , trandolapril will block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur at any time during treatment with ACE inhibitors , including trandolapril .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to stop taking the drug until they have consulted with their physician .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Symptomatic Hypotension Patients should be cautioned that light - headedness can occur , especially during the first days of trandolapril therapy , and should be reported to a physician .
If actual syncope occurs , patients should be told to stop taking the drug until they have consulted with their physician .
( See WARNINGS . )
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting , resulting in reduced fluid volume , may precipitate an excessive fall in blood pressure with the same consequences of light - headedness and possible syncope .
Patients planning to undergo any surgery and / or anesthesia should be told to inform their physician that they are taking an ACE inhibitor that has a long duration of action .
Hyperkalemia Patients should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Neutropenia Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to trandolapril during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
NOTE : As with many other drugs , certain advice to patients being treated with trandolapril is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Drug Interactions Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on trandolapril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with trandolapril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with trandolapril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
Concomitant Diuretic Therapy As with other ACE inhibitors , patients on diuretics , especially those on recently instituted diuretic therapy , may experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with trandolapril .
The possibility of exacerbation of hypotensive effects with trandolapril may be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or cautiously increasing salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with trandolapril .
If it is not possible to discontinue the diuretic , the starting dose of trandolapril should be reduced .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Trandolapril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics and increase serum potassium when used alone .
Use of potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes concomitantly with ACE inhibitors can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
If concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be used with caution and with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Antidiabetic Agents Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors and antidiabetic medicines ( insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents ) may cause an increased blood glucose lowering effect with greater risk of hypoglycemia .
Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving concomitant lithium and ACE inhibitor therapy .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including trandolapril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving trandolapril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including trandolapril may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including trandolapril .
Mammalian Target of Rapamycin ( mTOR ) Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema ( see Warnings – Head and Neck Angioedema ) .
Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors ( e . g . , sacubitril ) may be at increased risk for angioedema ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction has been found between trandolaprilat and food , cimetidine , digoxin , or furosemide .
The anticoagulant effect of warfarin was not significantly changed by trandolapril .
The hypotensive effect of certain inhalation anesthetics may be enhanced by ACE inhibitors including trandolapril .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Surgery / Anesthesia . )
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies were conducted with oral trandolapril administered by gavage to mice ( 78 weeks ) and rats ( 104 and 106 weeks ) .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was seen in mice dosed up to 25 mg / kg / day ( 85 mg / m2 / day ) or rats dosed up to 8 mg / kg / day ( 60 mg / m2 / day ) .
These doses are 313 and 32 times ( mice ) , and 100 and 23 times ( rats ) the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHDD ) of 4 mg based on body - weight and body - surface - area , respectively assuming a 50 kg individual .
The genotoxic potential of trandolapril was evaluated in the microbial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test , the point mutation and chromosome aberration assays in Chinese hamster V79 cells , and the micronucleus test in mice .
There was no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential in these in vitro and in vivo assays .
Reproduction studies in rats did not show any impairment of fertility at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 710 mg / m2 / day ) of trandolapril , or 1250 and 260 times the MRHDD on the basis of body - weight and body - surface - area , respectively .
Nursing Mothers Radiolabeled trandolapril or its metabolites are secreted in rat milk .
Trandolapril should not be administered to nursing mothers .
Geriatric Use In placebo - controlled studies of trandolapril , 31 . 1 % of patients were 60 years and older , 20 . 1 % were 65 years and older , and 2 . 3 % were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients .
( Greater sensitivity of some older individual patients cannot be ruled out . )
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to trandolapril If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
The safety and effectiveness of trandolapril in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety experience in U . S . placebo - controlled trials included 1069 hypertensive patients , of whom 832 received trandolapril .
Nearly 200 hypertensive patients received trandolapril for over one year in open - label trials .
In controlled trials , withdrawals for adverse events were 2 . 1 % on placebo and 1 . 4 % on trandolapril .
Adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment occurring in 1 % of trandolapril - treated patients and more common on trandolapril than placebo , pooled for all doses , are shown below , together with the frequency of discontinuation of treatment because of these events .
ADVERSE EVENTS IN PLACEBO - CONTROLLED HYPERTENSION TRIALS Occurring at 1 % or greater TRANDOLAPRIL ( N = 832 ) % Incidence ( % Discontinuance ) PLACEBO ( N = 237 ) % Incidence ( % Discontinuance ) Cough 1 . 9 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 4 ) Dizziness 1 . 3 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 4 ) Diarrhea 1 ( 0 ) 0 . 4 ( 0 ) Headache and fatigue were all seen in more than 1 % of trandolapril - treated patients but were more frequently seen on placebo .
Adverse events were not usually persistent or difficult to manage .
Left Ventricular Dysfunction Post Myocardial Infarction Adverse reactions related to trandolapril occurring at a rate greater than that observed in placebo - treated patients with left ventricular dysfunction , are shown below .
The incidences represent the experiences from the TRACE study .
The follow - up time was between 24 and 50 months for this study .
Percentage of Patients with Adverse Events Greater Than Placebo Placebo - Controlled ( TRACE ) Mortality Study Adverse Event Trandolapril N = 876 Placebo N = 873 Cough 35 22 Dizziness 23 17 Hypotension 11 6 . 8 Elevated serum uric acid 15 13 Elevated BUN 9 7 . 6 PICA or CABG 7 . 3 6 . 1 Dyspepsia 6 . 4 6 Syncope 5 . 9 3 . 3 Hyperkalemia 5 . 3 2 . 8 Bradycardia 4 . 7 4 . 4 Hypocalcemia 4 . 7 3 . 9 Myalgia 4 . 7 3 . 1 Elevated creatinine 4 . 7 2 . 4 Gastritis 4 . 2 3 . 6 Cardiogenic shock 3 . 8 < 2 Intermittent claudication 3 . 8 < 2 Stroke 3 . 3 3 . 2 Asthenia 3 . 3 2 . 6 Clinical adverse experiences possibly or probably related or of uncertain relationship to therapy occurring in 0 . 3 % to 1 % ( except as noted ) of the patients treated with trandolapril ( with or without concomitant calcium ion antagonist or diuretic ) in controlled or uncontrolled trials ( N = 1134 ) and less frequent , clinically significant events seen in clinical trials or post - marketing experience include ( listed by body system ) : General Body Function Chest pain .
Cardiovascular AV first degree block , bradycardia , edema , flushing , and palpitations .
Central Nervous System Drowsiness , insomnia , paresthesia , vertigo .
Dermatologic Pruritus , rash , pemphigus .
Eye , Ear , Nose , Throat Epistaxis , throat inflammation , upper respiratory tract infection .
Emotional , Mental , Sexual States Anxiety , impotence , decreased libido .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention , abdominal pain / cramps , constipation , dyspepsia , diarrhea , vomiting , nausea .
Hemopoietic Decreased leukocytes , decreased neutrophils .
Metabolism and Endocrine Increased liver enzymes including SGPT ( ALT ) .
Musculoskeletal System Extremity pain , muscle cramps , gout .
Pulmonary Dyspnea .
Postmarketing The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of trandolapril .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General Body Function Malaise , fever .
Cardiovascular Myocardial infarction , myocardial ischemia , angina pectoris , cardiac failure , ventricular tachycardia , tachycardia , transient ischemic attack , arrhythmia .
Central Nervous System Cerebral hemorrhage .
Dermatologic Alopecia , sweating , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Emotional , Mental , Sexual States Hallucination , depression .
Gastrointestinal Dry mouth , pancreatitis , jaundice and hepatitis .
Hemopoietic Agranulocytosis , pancytopenia .
Metabolism and Endocrine Increased SGOT ( AST ) .
Pulmonary Bronchitis .
Renal and Urinary Renal failure .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Hematology Thrombocytopenia .
Serum Electrolytes Hyponatremia .
Creatinine and Blood Urea Nitrogen Increases in creatinine levels occurred in 1 . 1 % of patients receiving trandolapril alone and 7 . 3 % of patients treated with trandolapril , a calcium ion antagonist and a diuretic .
Increases in blood urea nitrogen levels occurred in 0 . 6 % of patients receiving trandolapril alone and 1 . 4 % of patients receiving trandolapril , a calcium ion antagonist , and a diuretic .
None of these increases required discontinuation of treatment .
Increases in these laboratory values are more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency or those pretreated with a diuretic and , based on experience with other ACE inhibitors , would be expected to be especially likely in patients with renal artery stenosis .
( See PRECAUTIONS and WARNINGS . )
Liver Function Tests Occasional elevation of transaminases at the rate of 3 X upper normals occurred in 0 . 8 % of patients and persistent increase in bilirubin occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients .
Discontinuation for elevated liver enzymes occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients .
Other Another potentially important adverse experience , eosinophilic pneumonitis , has been attributed to other ACE inhibitors .
OVERDOSAGE No data are available with respect to overdosage in humans .
The oral LD50 of trandolapril in mice was 4875 mg / Kg in males and 3990 mg / Kg in females .
In rats , an oral dose of 5000 mg / Kg caused low mortality ( 1 male out of 5 ; 0 females ) .
In dogs , an oral dose of 1000 mg / Kg did not cause mortality and abnormal clinical signs were not observed .
In humans , the most likely clinical manifestation would be symptoms attributable to severe hypotension .
Symptoms also expected with ACE inhibitors are hypotension , hyperkalemia , and renal failure .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of trandolapril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of trandolapril overdose .
No data are available to suggest that physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) might accelerate elimination of trandolapril and its metabolites .
Trandolaprilat is removed by hemodialysis .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist antidote in the setting of trandolapril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of trandolapril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat trandolapril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The recommended initial dosage of trandolapril tablets for patients not receiving a diuretic is 1 mg once daily in non - black patients and 2 mg in black patients .
Dosage should be adjusted according to the blood pressure response .
Generally , dosage adjustments should be made at intervals of at least 1 week .
Most patients have required dosages of 2 to 4 mg once daily .
There is little clinical experience with doses above 8 mg .
Patients inadequately treated with once - daily dosing at 4 mg may be treated with twice - daily dosing .
If blood pressure is not adequately controlled with trandolapril tablets monotherapy , a diuretic may be added .
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of trandolapril tablets .
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued two to three days prior to beginning therapy with trandolapril tablets .
( See WARNINGS . )
Then , if blood pressure is not controlled with trandolapril tablets alone , diuretic therapy should be resumed .
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 0 . 5 mg trandolapril tablets should be used with careful medical supervision for several hours until blood pressure has stabilized .
The dosage should subsequently be titrated ( as described above ) to the optimal response .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and Drug Interactions . )
Concomitant administration of trandolapril tablets with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassium sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Heart Failure Post Myocardial Infarction or Left - Ventricular Dysfunction Post Myocardial Infarction The recommended starting dose is 1 mg , once daily .
Following the initial dose , all patients should be titrated ( as tolerated ) toward a target dose of 4 mg , once daily .
If a 4 mg dose is not tolerated , patients can continue therapy with the greatest tolerated dose .
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Impairment or Hepatic Cirrhosis For patients with a creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min .
or with hepatic cirrhosis , the recommended starting dose , based on clinical and pharmacokinetic data , is 0 . 5 mg daily .
Patients should subsequently have their dosage titrated ( as described above ) to the optimal response .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 71335 - 1431 NDC : 71335 - 1431 - 1 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1431 - 2 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE Trandolapril 2 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
