Active ingredient Potassium nitrate 5 % Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Uses • • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• • pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
• • brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing • • children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients ( refreshing peppermint ) water , sorbitol , hydrated silica , glycerin , flavor , cocamidopropyl betaine , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , sodium saccharin Inactive ingredients ( whitening action ) water , sorbitol , hydrated silica , glycerin , cocamidopropyl betaine , flavor , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , sodium saccharin , sodium hydroxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 844 - 2797 Additional Information Does not contain : SLS / sulfates • artificial dyes • parabens • triclosan • peroxide Minerals keep enamel strong and white .
But acidic foods & drinks can dissolve surface minerals .
Your saliva naturally replenishes minerals but can ’ t always keep up , leading to enamel loss .
Pronamel Mineral Boost improves natural mineral absorption for strong white teeth , protected from sensitivity .
ACIDS DISSOLVE SURFACE MINERALS … … PRONAMEL BOOSTS MINERAL ABSORPTION FROM SALIVA Replenishes vital minerals in enamel .
Developed to maximize the effect of fluoride to boost the absorption of calcium & phosphate into the enamel surface .
With twice - daily brushing , Pronamel helps to : • • Protect against effects of dietary acids • • Prevent enamel loss • • Relieve sensitive teeth • • Protect against cavities • • Clean and freshen your mouth Recyclable Carton Save Water Turn off tap while brushing Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0450 - 01 SENSODYNE PRONAMEL MINERAL BOOST new TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION Replenishes Vital Minerals For Stronger , Healthier Enamel infused with refreshing peppermint NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) gsk © 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
62000000049368 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0480 - 01 SENSODYNE PRONAMEL MINERAL BOOST new TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION Replenishes Vital Minerals For Stronger , Healthier Enamel With gentle whitening action NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) gsk © 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
62000000049369 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
