Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat , Dimethicone , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Tocopheryl acetate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Hydrolyzed rice protein , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Panax ginseng root extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Silica , Isopropyl myristate , Sodium benzoate , Tocopherol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Description No7 Early Defence Skincare System Protects and boosts young skin ' s natural defences to help it look younger for longer .
With GLOW ACTIVATING Serum , for glowing , healthier looking skin in just 1 week .
No7 Early Defence Glow Activating Serum 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz No7 Early Defence Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
No7 Early Defence Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
Description Our best defence for young skin When life is fast take control of your skin with No7 ' s Early Defence Skincare , with super light formulations that work to keep young skin looking younger for longer .
This daily skincare system includes our No7 Early Defence Day and Night Creams , which work to slow down the effects that everyday life can have on young skin ; as well as our Early Defence GLOW ACTIVATING Serum for glowing , healthier looking skin in just 1 week .
Enriched with our unique Double Defence technology - a powerful blend of antioxidants - the regime works to help protect your skin from every day environmental stress ; while a combination of Lipopeptides with Vitamin A in our Day and Night Creams - and Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM in our serum - helps to reduce the appearance of those first fine lines .
Formulated by No7 , leaders in age - defying skincare .
SERUM Glowing , healthier looking skin in 1 week .
Your busy lifestyle , the sun & pollution all put stresses on your skin , dulling its natural radiance and even causing breakouts .
Our formulation works to boost your skin ' s natural renewal process , helping clear and refine pores and get your skin glowing again .
Day by day our unique Double Defence technology supports your skin ' s natural defences , reduces your skins ' s reactivity to stresses , and protects from everyday pollution .
Powered by Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM to reduce the appearance of those first fine lines .
After just 1 week skin appears more radiant and looks healthier and clearer , withe less visible pores .
DAY CREAM This super - light and non pore - blocking day cream is formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 to help give your skin protection from the No 1 cause of visible skin ageing .
Double Defence technology protects skin and boosts natural defences against environmental stress .
Upon first application skin feels softer and looks more radiant .
In just 2 weeks the appearance of pores is visibly reduced .
NIGHT CREAM This super - light and non pore - blocking night cream works while you sleep to help skin recover from the day .
with Double Defence technology to give young skin effective night time protection against the damaging effects of free radicals generated from the sun and environmental stress during the day .
For Best Results : After cleansing , smooth No7 Early Defence Glow Activating Serum on to your face and neck .
In the morning , follow with No7 Early Defence Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Early Defence Night Cream .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . boots . com / no7 carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
