WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS ( NSF ) Gadolinium - based contrast agents increase the risk for nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ( NSF ) in patients with : • acute or chronic severe renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • acute renal insufficiency of any severity due to the hepato - renal syndrome or in the perioperative liver transplantation period .
In these patients , avoid use of gadolinium - based contrast agents unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating systemic fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle , and internal organs .
Screen all patients for renal dysfunction by obtaining a history and / or laboratory tests .
When administering a gadolinium - based contrast agent , do not exceed the recommended dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the agent from the body prior to any re - administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS ( NSF ) See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Gadolinium - based contrast agents increase the risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ( NSF ) in patients with : • acute or chronic severe renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • acute renal insufficiency of any severity due to the hepato - renal syndrome or in the perioperative liver transplantation period .
In these patients , avoid use of gadolinium - based contrast agents unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating systemic fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle , and internal organs .
Screen all patients for renal dysfunction by obtaining a history and / or laboratory tests .
When administering a gadolinium - based contrast agent , do not exceed the recommended dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the agent from the body prior to any re - administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VASOVIST is indicated for use as a contrast agent in magnetic resonance angiography ( MRA ) to evaluate aortoiliac occlusive disease ( AIOD ) in adults with known or suspected peripheral vascular disease [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
VASOVIST Injection is a gadolinium - based contrast agent indicated for use as a contrast agent in magnetic resonance angiography ( MRA ) to evaluate aortoiliac occlusive disease ( AIOD ) in adults with known or suspected peripheral vascular disease .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer VASOVIST Injection by an intravenous bolus , manually or by power injection , at a dose of 0 . 12 mL / kg body weight ( 0 . 03 mmol / kg ) over a period of time up to 30 seconds followed by a 25 - 30 mL normal saline flush .
Imaging is performed in two stages , the dynamic stage which begins immediately following VASOVIST Injection and the steady - state stage , which begins following dynamic imaging ; generally 5 to 7 minutes after VASOVIST Injection .
2 . 1 Dosing Guidelines Administer VASOVIST as an intravenous bolus injection , manually or by power injection , at a dose of 0 . 12 mL / kg body weight ( 0 . 03 mmol / kg ) over a period of time up to 30 seconds followed by a 25 - 30 mL normal saline flush .
( See Table 1 for weight - adjusted dose volumes ) .
TABLE 1 .
Weight - Adjusted Volumes for the 0 . 03 mmol / kg Dose Body Weight Volume Kilograms ( kg ) Pounds ( lb ) Milliliters ( mL ) 40 88 4 . 8 50 110 6 . 0 60 132 7 . 2 70 154 8 . 4 80 176 9 . 6 90 198 10 . 8 100 220 12 . 0 110 242 13 . 2 120 264 14 . 4 130 286 15 . 6 140 308 16 . 8 150 330 18 . 0 160 352 19 . 2 Inspect the VASOVIST vial visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use the solution if it is discolored or particulate matter is present .
VASOVIST is intended for single use only and should be used immediately upon opening .
Discard any unused portion of the VASOVIST vial .
Do not mix intravenous medications or parenteral nutrition solutions with VASOVIST .
Do not administer any other medications in the same intravenous line simultaneously with VASOVIST .
2 . 2 Imaging Guidelines VASOVIST imaging is completed in two stages : the dynamic imaging stage and the steady - state imaging stage .
Both stages are essential for adequate evaluation of the arterial system , and dynamic imaging always precedes steady - state imaging .
During interpretation of the steady - state images , VASOVIST within the venous system may limit or confound the detection of arterial lesions .
To assess the initial distribution of VASOVIST within the arterial system , begin dynamic imaging immediately upon injection .
Begin steady state imaging after dynamic imaging has been completed , generally 5 to 7 minutes following VASOVIST administration .
At this time point , VASOVIST is generally distributed throughout the blood .
In clinical trials , steady - state imaging was completed within approximately one hour following VASOVIST injection .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VASOVIST is a sterile solution for intravenous injection containing 244 mg / mL ( 0 . 25 mmol / mL ) gadofosveset trisodium [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] Each mL of VASOVIST Injection contains 244 mg gadofosveset trisodium ( equivalent to 0 . 25 mmol / mL ) and is available in single - use vials ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a prior allergic reaction to a gadolinium - based contrast agent .
• History of a prior allergic reaction to a gadolinium - based contrast agent ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis may result from administration of gadolinium - based contrast agents to certain patients ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid and / or anaphylactic reactions may result from VASOVIST administration .
Assess patients for a history of allergic reactions to gadolinium - based contrast agents and monitor patients closely for need of emergency cardiorespiratory support ( 5 . 2 ) • Gadolinium - based contrast agents , including VASOVIST may increase the risk for acute renal failure in patients with a history of renal insufficiency ( 5 . 3 ) .
• QTc prolongation has been reported following VASOVIST administration .
Assess patients for a history of underlying conditions that may predispose to arrhythmias due to QTc prolongation ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis Gadolinium - based contrast agents increase the risk for nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ( NSF ) in patients with acute or chronic severe renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and in patients with acute renal insufficiency of any severity due to the hepato - renal syndrome or in the perioperative liver transplantation period .
In these patients , avoid use of gadolinium - based contrast agents unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrast enhanced MRA .
For patients receiving hemodialysis , physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of a gadolinium - based contrast agent in order to enhance the contrast agent ' s elimination .
VASOVIST binds to blood albumin and use of a high - flux dialysis procedure is essential to optimized VASOVIST elimination in patients receiving chronic hemodialysis .
The usefulness of hemodialysis in the prevention of NSF is unknown [ see Boxed Warning and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Among the factors that may increase the risk for NSF are repeated or higher than recommended doses of a gadolinium - based contrast agent and the degree of renal function impairment at the time of exposure .
Post - marketing reports have identified the development of NSF following single and multiple administrations of gadolinium - based contrast agents .
These reports have not always identified a specific agent .
Prior to marketing of Vasovist ® , where a specific agent was identified , the most commonly reported agent was gadodiamide ( OmniscanTM ) , followed by gadopentetate dimeglumine ( Magnevist ® ) and gadoversetamide ( OptiMARK ® ) .
NSF has also developed following sequential administrations of gadodiamide with gadobenate dimeglumine ( MultiHance ® ) or gadoteridol ( ProHance ® ) .
The number of post - marketing reports is subject to change over time and may not reflect the true proportion of cases associated with any specific gadolinium - based contrast agent .
The extent of risk for NSF following exposure to any specific gadolinium - based contrast agent is unknown and may vary among the agents .
Published reports are limited and predominantly estimate NSF risks with gadodiamide .
In one retrospective study of 370 patients with severe renal insufficiency who received gadodiamide , the estimated risk for development of NSF was 4 % ( J Am Soc Nephrol 2006 ; 17 : 2359 ) .
The risk , if any , for the development of NSF among patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency or normal renal function is unknown .
Screen all patients for renal dysfunction by obtaining a history and / or laboratory tests .
When administering a gadolinium - based contrast agent , do not exceed the recommended dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the agent prior to any re - administration .
NSF was not reported in clinical trials of VASOVIST [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions VASOVIST may cause anaphylactoid and / or anaphylactic reactions , including life - threatening or fatal reactions .
In clinical trials , anaphylactoid and / or anaphylactic reactions occurred in two of 1676 subjects .
If anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions occur , stop VASOVIST Injection and immediately begin appropriate therapy .
Observe patients closely , particularly those with a history of drug reactions , asthma , allergy or other hypersensitivity disorders , during and up to several hours after VASOVIST administration .
Have emergency resuscitative equipment available prior to and during VASOVIST administration .
5 . 3 Acute Renal Failure In patients with renal insufficiency , acute renal failure requiring dialysis or worsening renal function have occurred with the use of other gadolinium agents .
The risk of renal failure may increase with increasing dose of gadolinium contrast .
Screen all patients for renal dysfunction by obtaining a history and / or laboratory tests .
Consider follow - up renal function assessments for patients with a history of renal dysfunction .
No reports of acute renal failure were observed in clinical trials of VASOVIST [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 QTc Prolongation and Risk for Arrhythmias In clinical trials , a small increase ( 2 . 8 msec ) in the average change from baseline in QTc was observed at 45 minutes following VASOVIST administration ; no increase was observed at 24 and 72 hours .
A QTc change of 30 to 60 msec from baseline was observed in 39 / 702 ( 6 % ) patients at 45 min following VASOVIST administration .
At this time point , 3 / 702 ( 0 . 4 % ) patients experienced a QTc increase of > 60 msec .
These QTc prolongations were not associated with arrhythmias or symptoms .
In patients at high risk for arrhythmias due to QTc prolongation ( e . g . , concomitant medications , underlying cardiac conditions ) consider obtaining baseline electrocardiograms to help assess the risks for VASOVIST administration .
If VASOVIST is administered to these patients , consider follow - up electrocardiograms and risk reduction measures ( e . g . , patient counseling or intensive electrocardiography monitoring ) until most VASOVIST has been eliminated from the blood .
In patients with normal renal function , most VASOVIST was eliminated from the blood by 72 hours following injection [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common ( > 2 % ) adverse reactions are pruritis , headache , nausea , vasodilatation , and paresthesia ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions were the most common serious reactions observed following VASOVIST injection administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
In all clinical trials evaluating VASOVIST with MRA , a total of 1 , 676 ( 1379 patients and 297 healthy subjects ) were exposed to various doses VASOVIST .
The mean age of the 1379 patients who received VASOVIST was 63 years ( range 18 to 91 years ) ; 66 % ( 903 ) were men and 34 % ( 476 ) were women .
In this population , there were 80 % ( 1100 ) Caucasian , 8 % ( 107 ) Black , 12 % ( 159 ) Hispanic , 1 % ( 7 ) Asian , and < 1 % ( 6 ) patients of other racial or ethnic groups .
Table 2 shows the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) experienced by subjects receiving VASOVIST at a dose of 0 . 03 mmol / kg .
Table 2 Common Adverse Reactions in 802 Subjects Receiving VASOVIST at 0 . 03 mmol / kg Preferred Term n ( % ) Pruritis 42 ( 5 ) Headache 33 ( 4 ) Nausea 33 ( 4 ) Vasodilatation 26 ( 3 ) Paresthesia 25 ( 3 ) Injection site bruising 19 ( 2 ) Dysgeusia 18 ( 2 ) Burning sensation 17 ( 2 ) Venipuncture site bruise 17 ( 2 ) Hypertension 11 ( 1 ) Dizziness ( excluding vertigo ) 8 ( 1 ) Feeling cold 7 ( 1 ) 6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience Because post - marketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The profile of adverse reactions identified during the post - marketing experience outside the United States was similar to that observed during the clinical studies experience .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Following injection , VASOVIST binds to blood albumin and has the potential to alter the binding of other drugs that also bind to albumin .
No drug interaction reactions were observed in clinical trials .
Consider the possibility of VASOVIST interaction with concomitantly administered medications that bind to albumin .
An interaction may enhance or decrease the activity of the concomitant medication [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 1 Warfarin In a clinical trial of 10 patients receiving a stable dose of warfarin , a single dose of VASOVIST ( 0 . 05 mmol / kg ) did not alter the anticoagulant activity of warfarin as measured by the International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of VASOVIST in pregnant women .
In animal studies , pregnant rabbits treated with gadofosveset trisodium at doses 3 times the human dose ( based on body surface area ) experienced higher rates of fetal loss and resorptions .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , only use VASOVIST during pregnancy if the diagnostic benefit justifies the potential risks to the fetus .
In reproductive studies , pregnant rats and rabbits received gadofosveset trisodium at various doses up to approximately 11 ( rats ) and 21 . 5 ( rabbits ) times the human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
The highest dose resulted in maternal toxicity in both species .
In rabbits that received gadofosveset trisodium at 3 times the human dose ( based on body surface area ) , increased post - implantation loss , resorptions , and dead fetuses were observed .
Fetal anomalies were not observed in the rat or rabbit offspring .
Because pregnant animals received repeated daily doses of VASOVIST , their overall exposure was significantly higher than that achieved with a single dose administered to humans .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether gadofosveset is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when VASOVIST is administered to a woman who is breastfeeding .
The risks associated with exposure of infants to gadolinium - based contrast agents in breast milk are unknown .
Limited case reports indicate that 0 . 01 to 0 . 04 % of the maternal gadolinium dose is excreted in human breast milk .
Studies of other gadolinium products have shown limited gastrointestinal absorption .
These studies were conducted with gadolinium products with shorter half - lives than VASOVIST .
Avoid VASOVIST administration to women who are breastfeeding unless the diagnostic information is essential and not obtainable with non - contrast MRA .
Less than 1 % of gadofosveset at doses up to 0 . 3 mmol / kg was secreted in the milk of lactating rats .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VASOVIST in patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
The risks associated with VASOVIST administration to pediatric patients are unknown and insufficient data are available to establish a dose .
Because VASOVIST is eliminated predominantly by the kidneys , pediatric patients with immature renal function may be at particular risk for adverse reactions .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials , no overall differences in safety and efficacy were observed between subjects 65 years and older and younger subjects .
Whereas current clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , greater susceptibility to adverse experiences of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE VASOVIST Injection has been administered to humans up to a dose of 0 . 15 mmol / kg ( 5 times the clinical dose ) .
No VASOVIST overdoses were reported in clinical trials .
In the event of an overdose , direct treatment toward the support of all vital functions and prompt institution of symptomatic therapy .
Gadofosveset has been shown to be removed by hemodialysis using a high flux dialysis procedure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION VASOVIST ( gadofosveset trisodium ) Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , formulation of a stable gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( GdDTPA ) chelate derivative with a diphenylcyclohexylphosphate group .
Each mL of VASOVIST Injection contains 244 mg of gadofosveset trisodium ( 0 . 25 mmol ) , 0 . 27 mg of fosveset , and water for injection .
It contains no preservative and the solution pH ranges between 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 .
Gadofosveset trisodium is chemically trisodium - { ( 2 - ( R ) - [ ( 4 , 4 - diphenylcyclohexyl ) phosphonooxymethyl ] - diethylenetriaminepentaacetato ) ( aquo ) gadolinium ( III ) , with a molecular weight of 975 . 88 g / mol , and an empirical formula of C33H40GdN3Na3O15P .
It has a structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pertinent physiochemical data of VASOVIST Injection are provided below : Table 3 .
Physiochemical Characteristics Parameter Condition Value Osmolality ( mOsmol / kg water ) @ 37 ° C 825 Viscosity ( cP ) @ 20 ° C 3 . 0 Density ( g / mL ) @ 25 ° C 1 . 1224 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Following intravenous injection , gadofosveset binds reversibly to endogenous serum albumin resulting in longer vascular residence time than non - protein binding contrast agents .
The binding to serum albumin also increases the magnetic resonance relaxivity of gadofosveset and decreases the relaxation time ( T1 ) of water protons resulting in an increase in signal intensity ( brightness ) of blood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In human studies , gadofosveset substantially shortened blood T1 values for up to 4 hours after intravenous bolus injection .
Relaxivity in plasma was measured to be 33 . 4 to 45 . 7 mM - 1 s - 1 ( 0 . 47 T ) over the dose range of up to 0 . 05 mmol / kg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered gadofosveset conforms to a two - compartment open model with mean plasma concentrations ( reported as mean ± SD ) of 0 . 43 ± 0 . 04 mmol / L at 3 minutes post - injection , and 0 . 24 ± 0 . 03 mmol / L at one hour post - injection .
The mean half - life of the distribution phase is 0 . 48 ± 0 . 11 hours and the mean half - life of the elimination phase is 16 . 3 ± 2 . 6 hours .
The mean total clearance of gadofosveset is 6 . 57 ± 0 . 97 mL / h / kg following the administration of 0 . 03 mmol / kg .
Distribution : The mean volume of distribution at steady state for gadofosveset was 148 ± 16 mL / kg , roughly equivalent to that of extracellular fluid .
A significant portion of circulating gadofosveset is bound to plasma proteins .
At 0 . 05 , 0 . 5 , 1 and 4 hours after injection of 0 . 03 mmol / kg the plasma protein binding of gadofosveset ranges from 79 . 8 to 87 . 4 % .
Metabolism : Gadofosveset does not undergo measurable metabolism in humans .
Excretion : Gadofosveset is eliminated primarily in the urine with approximately 83 . 5 % of an injected dose excreted in the urine over 14 days .
Ninety - four percent ( 94 % ) of urinary excretion occurs in the first 72 hours .
A small portion of gadofosveset dose is recovered in feces ( approximately 4 . 7 % ) .
Special Populations Renal Insufficiency : Administration of gadolinium - based contrast agents , including VASOVIST to patients with severe renal insufficiency increases the risk for NSF .
Administration of these agents to patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency may increase the risk for worsened renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 and 5 . 3 ) ] .
Prior to use of VASOVIST in these patients , ensure that no satisfactory diagnostic alternatives are available .
In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( glomerular filtration rate < 60 mL / kg / m2 ) , administer VASOVIST at a dose of 0 . 01 mmol / kg to 0 . 02 mmol / kg .
Consider follow - up renal function assessments following VASOVIST administration to any patients with renal insufficiency .
A clinical study of gadofosveset , at a dose of 0 . 05 mmol / kg , was conducted in patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment .
The clearance decreased substantially as renal function decreased and the systemic exposure ( AUC ) increased almost 1 . 75 - fold in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance : 30 to 50 mL / min ) and 2 . 25 - fold in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
The elimination half - life increased from 19 hours in normal subjects to 49 hours in patients with moderate and 70 hours in patients with severe renal impairment .
The volume of distribution at steady state and plasma protein binding of gadofosveset were not affected by renal impairment .
Fecal elimination of gadofosveset increased as a function of increasing renal impairment ( 6 . 5 % in normal subjects to 13 . 3 % in patients with severe renal impairment ) .
Hemodialysis : Gadofosveset is removed from the body by hemodialysis using high - flux filters .
Elimination of the total administered dose of gadolinium in dialysate over 3 dialysis sessions using high - flux filters averaged 46 . 8 % , 12 . 9 % , and 6 . 11 % for the first , second , and third sessions , respectively .
Hepatic Insufficiency : The pharmacokinetics and plasma protein binding of gadofosveset was not significantly influenced by moderate hepatic impairment .
A slight decrease in fecal elimination of gadofosveset was seen for the hepatic impaired subjects ( 2 . 7 % ) compared to normal subjects ( 4 . 8 % ) .
Gender : No dosage adjustment is necessary based on gender .
Gender had no meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gadofosveset .
Geriatric : No dosage adjustment is necessary based on age .
Age had no meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gadofosveset .
Pediatric : Studies of gadofosveset in pediatric patients have not been performed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of gadofosveset .
Gadofosveset was negative in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , in vitro CHO chromosome aberration assay , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Administration of up to 1 . 5 mmol / kg ( 8 . 3 times the human dose ) to female rats for 2 weeks and to male rats for 4 weeks did not impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Safety and efficacy of VASOVIST were assessed in two multi - center , open - label , Phase 3 clinical trials .
In both trials , patients with known or suspected peripheral vascular disease underwent MRA with and without VASOVIST as well as catheter - based X - ray arteriography .
Diagnostic efficacy was based upon comparisons of sensitivity and specificity between MRA with and without VASOVIST , with X - ray arteriography as the reference standard .
Out of 493 patients enrolled in these two trials , 424 were included in the comparison of the diagnostic efficacy of VASOVIST - MRA to that of non - contrast MRA in detection / exclusion of occlusive vascular disease ( ≥ 50 % stenosis ) in 7 vessel - segments in the aortoiliac region .
The interpretation of MRA images from both trials was conducted by three independent radiologist readers who were blinded to clinical data , including the results of X - ray arteriography .
In these 424 patients , the median age was 67 years with a range of 29 to 87 years ; 58 % of the patients were over 65 years of age ; 83 % were white and 68 % were male .
The primary efficacy analyses were designed to demonstrate superiority in sensitivity and non - inferiority in specificity of VASOVIST - MRA as compared to non - contrast MRA at the vessel - segment level .
The uninterpretable images were assigned an outcome of " wrong diagnosis " .
Additionally , success was also based upon acceptable performance characteristics for the uninterpretable non - contrast MRA vessel segments that became interpretable following VASOVIST administration .
Specifically , the sensitivity and specificity for these VASOVIST images were required to exceed 50 % .
These pre - specified success criteria were to be achieved by at least the same two readers for all primary analyses .
Superiority in sensitivity and non - inferiority in specificity was demonstrated for VASOVIST - MRA by all three blinded readers .
On average , 316 vessel segments were assessed for sensitivity and 2230 for specificity , by each reader .
Table 4 summarizes the efficacy results , by reader .
Table 4 .
Performance Characteristics of VASOVIST - MRA and Non - contrast MRAReader SENSITIVITY SPECIFICITY VASOVIST - MRA [ A ] Non - contrast MRA [ B ] [ A ] – [ B ] ( 95 % CI ) [ 1 ] VASOVIST MRA [ A ] Non - contrast MRA [ B ] [ A ] – [ B ] ( 95 % CI ) null 1 89 % 69 % 20 % ( 15 % , 25 % ) 72 % 71 % 1 % ( - 3 % , 5 % ) 2 82 % 70 % 12 % ( 7 % , 17 % ) 81 % 73 % 8 % ( 4 % , 12 % ) 3 79 % 64 % 15 % ( 9 % , 21 % ) 85 % 85 % 0 % ( - 2 % , 2 % ) [ 1 ] ( Based on cluster - corrected McNemar Test ) Among the three readers , 5 to 12 % of the vessel - segments were deemed uninterpretable by non - contrast MRA .
For these vessel segments , sensitivity of VASOVIST - MRA ranged from 72 % [ 95 % CI ( 54 % , 90 % ) ] to 97 % [ 95 % CI ( 93 % , 100 % ) ] and specificity ranged from 72 % [ 95 % CI ( 67 % , 76 % ) ] to 84 % [ 95 % CI ( 81 % , 88 % ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VASOVIST Injection is a sterile , clear , colorless to pale yellow solution containing 244 mg / mL ( 0 . 25 mmol / mL ) of gadofosveset trisodium in rubber - stoppered vials with an aluminum seal .
VASOVIST Injection is supplied as follows : • NDC 50419 - 310 - 01 - 10 mL fills in 10 mL single use vials packages of 10 vials • NDC 50419 - 310 - 02 - 15 mL fills in 20 mL single use vials in packages of 10 vials Store VASOVIST Injection at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F : excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C [ 59 to 86 ° F ] ) .
Protect from light and freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients receiving VASOVIST Injection to inform their physician or healthcare provider if they : • are pregnant or breast feeding • have a history of allergic reaction to contrast media , a history of bronchial asthma or allergic respiratory disorder • have a history of kidney and / or liver disease • have recently received a gadolinium - based contrast agent • have a history of heart rhythm disturbances , or cardiac disease • are taking any prescription or over - the counter medications Gadolinium - based contrast agents , including VASOVIST , increase the risk for NSF in patients with severe renal insufficiency or acute renal insufficiency of any severity due to the hepato - renal syndrome or in the perioperative setting of liver transplantation .
Patients with less severe renal insufficiency who receive repetitive administrations of a gadolinium - based contrast agent may have an increased risk for the development of NSF , especially if the time interval between the administrations precludes clearance of the previously administered contrast agent from the body .
If VASOVIST is administered in these situations , instruct patients to contact their physician or healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of NSF , such as burning , itching , swelling , scaling , hardening and tightening of the skin , red or dark patches on the skin , stiffness in joints with trouble moving , bending or straightening of the arms , hands , legs , or feet , pain deep in the hip bones or ribs , or muscle weakness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients that they may experience : • reactions at the injection site , such as : redness , mild and transient burning or pain or feeling of warmth or coldness • side effects of itching or nausea Distributed by Bayer Healthcare , Inc . , Wayne , NJ Co - Developed by EPIX Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Lexington , MA US Patents : 7 , 060 , 250 ; 7 , 229 , 606 ; and 5 , 919 , 967
