Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 75 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire / flame For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • as a diaper wipe When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • open resealable sticker label .
Pull wipes as needed .
Close the resealable sticker label firmly to keep wipes moist , prevent from drying out and maintain the quality • wipe hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry • dispose the wipe after use • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing • do not flush down the toilet Other information • store between 15 - 30 ˚ C ( 59 - 86 ˚ F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ˚ C ( 104 ˚ F ) Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , propylene glycol , disodium cocoamphodiacetate , 2 - bromo - 2 - nitropropane - 1 , 3 - diol , methychloroisothiazolinone , methylisothiazolinone , PEG - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , vitamin E , aloe vera ( Aloe barbadensis ) extract .
Questions ?
+ 1 - 909 - 442 - 0096 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM kills up to 99 . 9 % of bacteria * THICK & DURABLE DEEP , GENTLE CLEAN QUICK & EASY UNSCENTED - HYPOALLERGENIC 75 % plant based alcohol enriched with aloe vera vitamin E NO FRAGRANCE NO PARABEN NO SULPHATES ( * ) Tested under lab conditions .
Distributed by : The Germ Safe Company , Inc .
701 Brickell Key Boulevard , # 1903 Miami , FL - 33131 MADE IN VIETNAM Manufacturing date : Printed on the label Expiration date : 36 months from manufacturing date NOT TESTED ON ANIMALS ISO GMP Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
