Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • • temporarily relieves : • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • • the intensity of coughing • • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • • measure only with dosing cup provided • • do not use dosing cup with other products • • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 5 mL – 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 2 . 5 mL – 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • • each 5 mL contains : sodium 2 mg • • Tamper evident : do not use if printed inner seal under cap is torn or missing • • store at room temperature • • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C red # 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton Compare to the Active Ingredients in Children ’ s Mucinex ® cough NDC 69842 - 577 - 04 Children ' s Cough Relief Dextromethorphan HBr , 5 mg Guaifenesin , 100 mg Natural Cherry Flavor Dosage Cup Included Ages 4 + years Controls Cough Relieves Chest Congestion Breaks up Mucus 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by RB Health ( USA ) , distributor of Children ’ s Mucinex ® Cough .
IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
