Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 0 . 45 % Zinc Oxide 20 % Purpose External Analgesic Astringent Uses Multipurpose moisture barrier that aids in protecting irritated skin conditions in the perineum , buttocks , lower abdomen and inner thigh due to moisture , occlusion , chafing or continued contact with urine or feces .
Helps relieve the local itching , discomfort , pain , burning and irritation associated with anorectal disorders and hemorroids . May provide a cooling sensation .
Warnings For external use only Stop use and consult a doctor • in case of bleeding • if conditions worsenor deos not improve within 7 days < Do not exceed recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctorDo not put prodcut into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicatorAllergy Alert : Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to this product .
If the symptoms develop or increase , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
> Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions < Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected areawith a mild soap and warm water and rinse thorughly .
Gently dry by pattingor blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth beforeapplication of this product . Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Apply extrenally to the affectedarea u pto 6 times a day .
> Other information Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Calamine , Codliver Oil , Disodium EDTA , Lanolin , Methylparaben , Microcrystalline Wax , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Propylparaben , Sodium Borate , Sorbitan Sequioleate , Talc , Water ( Purified ) Principal Display Panel - Tube [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 49035 - 156 - 22 Equate Dual Action Barrier Cream with Pain Relief Anorectal Cream Zinc Oxide 20 % - Protects and soothes irritated or chafed skin associated with Incontinence Menthol 0 . 45 % - Provided Temporary Relief of Pain & Itching Made in the USA NET WT 4 oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
