WARNING : ADDICTION , ABUSE , AND MISUSE ; LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION ; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION ; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME ; and INTERACTION WITH ALCOHOL • Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse • Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets expose patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction , abuse , and misuse , which can lead to overdose and death .
Assess each patient ’ s risk prior to prescribing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors or conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Life - threatening Respiratory Depression • Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Monitor for respiratory depression , especially during initiation of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets or following a dose increase .
Instruct patients to swallow oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole ; crushing , chewing , or dissolving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxymorphone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Accidental Ingestion • Accidental ingestion of even one dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , especially by children , can result in a fatal overdose of oxymorphone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome • Prolonged use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , which may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated , and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts .
If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman , advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Interaction with Alcohol • Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or non - prescription products that contain alcohol while taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
The co - ingestion of alcohol with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may result in increased plasma levels and a potentially fatal overdose of oxymorphone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Risks From Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• • Reserve concomitant prescribing of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
• Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
• Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
WARNING : ADDICTION , ABUSE , AND MISUSE ; LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION ; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION ; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME ; and INTERACTION WITH ALCOHOL See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets expose users to risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse , which can lead to overdose and death .
Assess each patient ’ s risk before prescribing , and monitor regularly for development of these behaviors or conditions .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Serious life - threatening or fatal respiratory depression may occur .
Monitor closely , especially upon initiation or following a dose increase .
Instruct patients to swallow oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole to avoid exposure to a potentially fatal dose of oxymorphone .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Accidental ingestion of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , especially in children , can result in fatal overdose of oxymorphone .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Prolonged use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , which may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated .
If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman , advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available ( 5 . 3 ) .
• • Instruct patients not to consume alcohol or any product containing alcohol while taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets because co - ingestion can result in fatal plasma oxymorphone levels .
( 5 . 4 ) Boxed Warning 4 / 2014 Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 4 / 2014 Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) 4 / 2014 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) 4 / 2014 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily , around - the - clock , long - term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limitations of Usage Because of the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse with opioids , even at recommended doses , and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended - release opioid formulations , reserve oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options ( e . g . , non - opioid analgesics or immediate - release opioids ) are ineffective , not tolerated , or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated as an as - needed ( prn ) analgesic .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily , around - the - clock , long - term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • • Because of the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse with opioids , even at recommended doses , and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended - release opioid formulations , reserve oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options ( e . g . , non - opioid analgesics or immediate - release opioids ) are ineffective , not tolerated , or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain .
( 1 ) • • Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated as an as - needed ( prn ) analgesic .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • For opioid - naïve and opioid non - tolerant patients , initiate with 5 mg tablets orally every 12 hours .
( 2 . 1 ) • • To convert to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets from another opioid , use available conversion factors to obtain estimated dose .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Dose can be increased every 3 to 7 days , using increments of 5 to 10 mg every 12 hours ( i . e . , 10 to 20 mg per day ) .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Administer on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour prior to or 2 hours after eating .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not abruptly discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in a physically dependent patient .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 15 ) • • Instruct patients to swallow oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets intact .
( 2 . 4 ) • • Reduce the dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with mild hepatic impairment and patients with renal impairment .
( 2 . 5 , 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Initial Dosing To avoid medication errors , prescribers and pharmacists must be aware that oxymorphone is available as both immediate - release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets and extended - release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ] .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain .
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient ’ s prior analgesic treatment experience and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be taken whole , one tablet at a time , with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in the mouth [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Crushing , chewing , or dissolving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of oxymorphone and can lead to overdose or death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered at a frequency of twice daily ( every 12 hours ) .
Administer on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour prior to or 2 hours after eating .
Use of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets with the 5 mg tablet orally every 12 - hours .
Use of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets 5 mg orally every 12 hours .
Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving , for one week or longer , at least 60 mg oral morphine per day , 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour , 30 mg oral oxycodone per day , 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day , 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day , or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid .
Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression .
Conversion from Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets may be converted to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets by administering half the patient ' s total daily oral oxymorphone hydrochloride dose as oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , every 12 hours .
Conversion from Parenteral Oxymorphone to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets The absolute oral bioavailability of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets is approximately 10 % .
Convert patients receiving parenteral oxymorphone to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets by administering 10 times the patient ' s total daily parenteral oxymorphone dose as oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in two equally divided doses ( e . g . , [ IV dose x 10 ] divided by 2 ) .
Due to patient variability with regards to opioid analgesic response , upon conversion monitor patients closely to evaluate for adequate analgesia and side effects .
Conversion from Other Oral Opioids to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Discontinue all other around - the - clock opioid drugs when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy is initiated .
While there are useful tables of opioid equivalents readily available , there is substantial inter - patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products .
As such , it is preferable to underestimate a patient ’ s 24 - hour oral oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets requirements and provide rescue medication ( e . g . , immediate - release opioid ) than to overestimate the 24 - hour oral oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets requirements which could result in adverse reactions .
In an oxymorphone clinical trial with an open - label titration period , patients were converted from their prior opioid to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets using Table 1 as a guide for the initial oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose .
Consider the following when using the information in Table 1 : • • This is not a table of equianalgesic doses .
• • The conversion factors in this table are only for the conversion from one of the listed oral opioid analgesics to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • This table cannot be used to convert from oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets to another opioid .
Doing so will result in an over - estimation of the dose of the new opioid and may result in fatal overdose .
CONVERSION FACTORS TO OXYMORPHONE HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS Prior Oral Opioid Approximate Oral Conversion Factor Oxymorphone 1 Hydrocodone 0 . 5 Oxycodone 0 . 5 Methadone 0 . 5 Morphine 0 . 333 To calculate the estimated oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose using Table 1 : • • For patients on a single opioid , sum the current total daily dose of the opioid and then multiply the total daily dose by the conversion factor to calculate the approximate oral ( active opioid ) daily dose .
• • For patients on a regimen of more than one opioid , calculate the approximate oral ( active opioid ) dose for each opioid and sum the totals to obtain the approximate total ( active opioid ) daily dose .
• • For patients on a regimen of fixed - ratio opioid / non - opioid analgesic products , use only the opioid component of these products in the conversion Always round the dose down , if necessary , to the appropriate oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets strength ( s ) available .
Example conversion from a single opioid to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets : • Step 1 : Sum the total daily dose of the opioid oxycodone 20 mg BID 20 mg former opioid 2 times daily = 40 mg total daily dose of former opioid • Step 2 : Calculate the approximate equivalent dose of oral ( active opioid ) based on the total daily dose of the current opioid using Table 1 40 mg total daily dose of former opioid x 0 . 5 mg Conversion Factor = 20 mg of oral ( active opioid ) daily • Step 3 : Calculate the approximate starting dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets to be given every 12 hours .
Round down , if necessary , to the appropriate oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets strengths available .
10 mg oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets every 12 hours Conversion from Methadone to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists .
The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure .
Methadone has a long half - life and can accumulate in the plasma .
2 . 2 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions .
Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , and misuse .
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration .
During chronic therapy , periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics .
If the level of pain increases , attempt to identify the source of increased pain , while adjusting the oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose to decrease the level of pain .
Because steady - state plasma concentrations are approximated within 3 days , oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dosage adjustments , preferably at increments of 5 to 10 mg every 12 hours , may be done every 3 to 7 days .
Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate - release analgesic .
If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization , attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose .
If unacceptable opioid - related adverse reactions are observed , the subsequent dose may be reduced .
Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse reactions .
2 . 3 Discontinuation of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets When a patient no longer requires therapy with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , use a gradual downward titration of the dose every two to four days , to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically - dependent patient .
Do not abruptly discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
2 . 4 Administration of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Instruct patients to swallow oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets intact .
The tablets are not to be crushed , dissolved , or chewed due to the risk of rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxymorphone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administer on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour prior to or 2 hours after eating .
2 . 5 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
In opioid - naïve patients with mild hepatic impairment , initiate treatment with the 5 mg dose .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets at 50 % lower than the starting dose for a patient with normal hepatic function on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory or central nervous system depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance rates less than 50 mL / min , start oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the opioid - naïve patient with the 5 mg dose .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets at 50 % lower than the starting dose for a patient with normal renal function on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory or central nervous system depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 7 Geriatric Patients The steady - state plasma concentrations of oxymorphone are approximately 40 % higher in elderly subjects than in young subjects .
Initiate dosing with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients 65 years of age and over using the 5 mg dose and monitor closely for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression when initiating and titrating oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets to adequate analgesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets at 50 % lower than the starting dose for a younger patient on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The 5 mg dosage form is pink to light pink , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RH 29 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 7 . 5 mg dosage form is gray to light gray , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RI 36 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 10 mg dosage form is orange to light orange , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RH 30 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 15 mg dosage form is white to off - white , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RI 37 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 20 mg dosage form is green to light green , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RH 31 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 30 mg dosage form is reddish brown , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RI 38 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
The 40 mg dosage form is yellow to light yellow , round , biconvex film - coated tablet , debossed with ‘ RH 32 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
• • Extended - release tablets : 5 mg , 7 . 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , and 40 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • • Significant respiratory depression • • Acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia • • Known or suspected paralytic ileus • • Moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity ( e . g . anaphylaxis ) to oxymorphone , any other ingredients in oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , or to morphine analogs such as codeine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• • Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) • • Acute or severe bronchial asthma ( 4 ) • • Known or suspected paralytic ileus ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to oxymorphone ( 4 ) • • Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • See Boxed WARNINGS • • Interaction with CNS depressants : Concomitant use may cause profound sedation , respiratory depression , and death .
If coadministration is required , consider dose reduction of one or both drugs because of additive pharmacological effects .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) • • Elderly , cachectic , and debilitated patients and those with chronic pulmonary disease : Monitor closely because of increased risk for life - threatening respiratory depression .
( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) • • Anaphylaxis , Angioedema , and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions : If symptoms occur , stop administration immediately , discontinue permanently , and do not rechallenge with any other oxymorphone formulation .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Adrenal Insufficiency : If diagnosed , treat with physiologic replacement of corticosteroids , and wean patient off of the opioid .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Hypotensive effect : Monitor during dose initiation and titration .
( 5 . 10 ) • • Patients with head injury or increased intracranial pressure : Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression .
Avoid use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma susceptible to intracranial effects of CO2 retention .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets contain oxymorphone , a Schedule II controlled substance .
As an opioid , oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets expose users to the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
As modified - release products such as oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets deliver the opioid over an extended period of time , there is a greater risk for overdose and death due to the larger amount of oxymorphone present .
Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown , it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and in those who obtain the drug illicitly .
Addiction can occur at recommended doses and if the drug is misused or abused .
Assess each patient ’ s risk for opioid abuse or addiction , abuse , or misuse prior to prescribing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and monitor all patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets for the development of these behaviors or conditions .
Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse ( including drug or alcohol addiction or abuse ) or mental illness ( e . g . , major depression ) .
The potential for these risks should not , however , prevent the prescribing of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets for the proper management of pain in any given patient .
Patients at increased risk may be prescribed modified - release opioid formulations such as oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction , abuse , and misuse .
Abuse , or misuse of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets by crushing , chewing , snorting , or injecting the dissolved product will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the oxymorphone and can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Opioid agonists such as oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
5 . 2 Life Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of modified - release opioids , even when used as recommended .
Respiratory depression from opioid use , if not immediately recognized and treated , may lead to respiratory arrest and death .
Management of respiratory depression may include close observation , supportive measures , and use of opioid antagonists , depending on the patient ’ s clinical status [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) retention from opioid - induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids .
While serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dose increase .
Closely monitor patients for respiratory depression when initiating therapy with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and following dose increases .
To reduce the risk of respiratory depression , proper dosing and titration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are essential [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
Overestimating the oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose when converting patients from another opioid product can result in fatal overdose with the first dose .
Accidental ingestion of even one dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose , especially by children , can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxymorphone .
5 . 3 Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can result in withdrawal signs in the neonate .
Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults , may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated , and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts .
If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman , advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available .
Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability , hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern , high pitched cry , tremor , vomiting , diarrhea and failure to gain weight .
The onset , duration , and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used , duration of use , timing and amount of last maternal use , and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn .
5 . 4 Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death may result from the concomitant use of oxymorphone hydrochloride with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( e . g . , non - benzodiazepine sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , other opioids , alcohol ) .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone .
Because of similar pharmacological properties , it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid , and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic , and titrate based on clinical response .
Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when oxymorphone hydrochloride is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol and illicit drugs ) .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined .
Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders , including opioid abuse and misuse , and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 5 Use in Elderly , Cachectic , and Debilitated Patients Life - threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly , cachectic , or debilitated patients as they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger , healthier patients .
Monitor such patients closely , particularly when initiating and titrating oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Monitor patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , and patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or pre - existing respiratory depression for respiratory depression , particularly when initiating therapy and titrating with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , as in these patients , even usual therapeutic doses of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Consider the use of alternative non - opioid analgesics in these patients if possible .
5 . 7 Anaphylaxis , Angioedema , and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions Potentially life - threatening hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and angioedema , have occurred in patients treated with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the postmarket setting .
The most commonly described clinical features in these reports were swelling of the face , eyes , mouth , lips , tongue , hands , and / or throat ; dyspnea ; hives , pruritus , and / or rash ; and nausea / vomiting .
If anaphylaxis or other hypersensitivity occurs , stop administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately , discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets permanently , and do not rechallenge with any formulation of oxymorphone .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 8 Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than one 1 month of use .
Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non - specific symptoms and signs including nausea , vomiting , anorexia , fatigue , weakness , dizziness , and low blood pressure .
If adrenal insufficiency is suspected , confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible .
If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed , treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids .
Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers .
Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency .
The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency .
5 . 9 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment A study of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with hepatic disease indicated greater plasma concentrations than those with normal hepatic function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
In patients with mild hepatic impairment reduce the starting dose to the lowest dose and monitor for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 10 Hypotensive Effect Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients .
There is an increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs ( e . g . phenothiazines or general anesthetics ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In patients with circulatory shock , oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
Avoid the use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with circulatory shock .
5 . 11 Use in Patients with Head Injury or Increased Intracranial Pressure Monitor patients taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention ( e . g . , those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors ) for signs of sedation and respiratory depression , particularly when initiating therapy with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may reduce respiratory drive , and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure .
Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury .
Avoid the use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma .
5 . 12 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with paralytic ileus .
Avoid the use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with other GI obstruction .
The oxymorphone in oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi .
Monitor patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis , for worsening symptoms .
Opioids may cause increases in the serum amylase .
5 . 13 Use in Patients with Convulsive or Seizure Disorders The oxymorphone in oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders , and may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings .
Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy .
5 . 14 Avoidance of Withdrawal Avoid the use of mixed agonist / antagonist ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , and butorphanol ) and partial agonist ( buprenorphine ) analgesics in patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with an opioid agonist analgesic , including oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In these patients , mixed agonists / antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and / or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
When discontinuing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gradually taper the dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Do not abruptly discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
5 . 15 Driving and Operating Machinery Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and know how they will react to the medication .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Addicition , Abuse , and Misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Life Threatening Respiratory Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Interactions with Other CNS Depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Anaphylaxis , Angioedema , and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Adrenal Insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Hypotensive Effect [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] Adverse reactions in ≥ 2 % of patients in placebo - controlled trials : nausea , constipation , dizziness , somnolence , vomiting , pruritus , headache , sweating increased , dry mouth , sedation , diarrhea , insomnia , fatigue , appetite decreased , and abdominal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - Ranbaxy ( 726 - 2299 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets was evaluated in a total of 2011 patients in open - label and controlled clinical trials .
The clinical trials enrolled of patients with moderate to severe chronic non - malignant pain , cancer pain , and post surgical pain .
The most common serious adverse events reported with administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets were chest pain , pneumonia and vomiting .
Tables 1 and 2 list the most frequently occurring adverse reactions ( in at least 5 % of patients ) from the placebo - controlled trials in patients with low back pain .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients During the Open - Label Titration Period and Double - Blind Treatment Period by Preferred Term — Number ( % ) of Treated Patients ( 12 - Week Study In Opioid - Naïve Patients with Low Back Pain ) Open - Label Titration Period Double - Blind Treatment Period Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo Preferred Term ( N = 325 ) ( N = 105 ) ( N = 100 ) Constipation 26 % 7 % 1 % Somnolence 19 % 2 % 0 % Nausea 18 % 11 % 9 % Dizziness 11 % 5 % 3 % Headache 11 % 4 % 2 % Pruritus 7 % 3 % 1 % Table 2 .
Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients During the Open - Label Titration Period and Double - Blind Treatment Period by Preferred Term — Number ( % ) of Treated Patients ( 12 - Week Study In Opioid - Experienced Patients with Low Back Pain ) Open - Label Titration Period Double - Blind Treatment Period Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo Preferred Term ( N = 250 ) ( N = 70 ) ( N = 72 ) Nausea 20 % 3 % 1 % Constipation 12 % 6 % 1 % Headache 12 % 3 % 0 % Somnolence 11 % 3 % 0 % Vomiting 9 % 0 % 1 % Pruritus 8 % 0 % 0 % Dizziness 6 % 0 % 0 % The following table lists adverse reactions that were reported in at least 2 % of patients in placebo - controlled trials ( N = 5 ) .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Reported in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials with Incidence ≥ 2 % in Patients Receiving Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets .
MedDRA Preferred Term Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( N = 1259 ) Placebo ( N = 461 ) Nausea 33 % 13 % Constipation 28 % 13 % Dizziness ( Excl Vertigo ) 18 % 8 % Somnolence 17 % 2 % Vomiting 16 % 4 % Pruritus 15 % 8 % Headache 12 % 6 % Sweating increased 9 % 9 % Dry mouth 6 % < 1 % Sedation 6 % 8 % Diarrhea 4 % 6 % Insomnia 4 % 2 % Fatigue 4 % 1 % Appetite decreased 3 % < 1 % Abdominal pain 3 % 2 % The common ( ≥ 1 % to < 10 % ) adverse drug reactions reported at least once by patients treated with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the clinical trials organized by MedDRA ’ s ( Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities ) System Organ Class and not represented in Table 1 were : Eye disorders : vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia General disorders and administration site conditions : dry mouth , appetite decreased , fatigue , lethargy , weakness , pyrexia , dehydration , weight decreased , edema Nervous system disorders : insomnia Psychiatric disorders : anxiety , confusion , disorientation , restlessness , nervousness , depression Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea Vascular disorders : flushing and hypertension Other less common adverse reactions known with opioid treatment that were seen < 1 % in the oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets trials include the following : Bradycardia , palpitation , syncope , tachycardia , postural hypotension , miosis , abdominal distention , ileus , hot flashes , allergic reactions , hypersensitivity , urticaria , oxygen saturation decreased , central nervous system depression , depressed level of consciousness , agitation , dysphoria , euphoric mood , hallucination , mental status changes , difficult micturition , urinary retention , hypoxia , respiratory depression , respiratory distress , clamminess , dermatitis , hypotension .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Nervous system disorder : amnesia , convulsion , memory impairment Serotonin syndrome , adrenal insufficiency Anaphylaxis , angioedema , and other hypersensitivity reactions Androgen deficiency : Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis , leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido , impotence , erectile dysfunction , amenorrhea , or infertility .
The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical , physical , lifestyle , and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date .
Patients presenting with symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome .
Discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Mixed agonist / antagonist and partial agonist opioid analgesics : Avoid use with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets can result in an increase of oxymorphone plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose of oxymorphone .
Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or non - prescription products containing alcohol while on oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Clinical Impact : Due to additive pharmacologic effect , the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol , increases the risk of respiratory depression , profound sedation , coma , and death .
Intervention : Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Examples : Benzodiazepines and other sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , other opioids , alcohol .
7 . 3 Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , triptans , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system ( e . g . , mirtazapine , trazodone , tramadol ) , and monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others , such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue ) , has resulted in serotonin syndrome .
If concomitant use is warranted , carefully observe the patient , particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment .
Discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
7 . 4 Interactions with Mixed Agonist / Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , and butorphanol ) , and partial agonists ( buprenorphine ) may reduce the analgesic effect of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
Avoid the use of mixed agonist / antagonist and partial agonist analgesics in patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
7 . 5 Muscle Relaxants Oxymorphone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
Monitor patients receiving muscle relaxants and oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected .
7 . 6 Cimetidine Cimetidine can potentiate opioid - induced respiratory depression .
Monitor patients for respiratory depression when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and cimetidine are used concurrently .
7 . 7 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and / or severe constipation , which may lead to paralytic ileus .
Monitor patients for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used concurrently with anticholinergic drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • • Nursing mothers : Closely monitor infants of nursing women receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Clinical Considerations Fetal / neonatal adverse reactions Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth .
Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , such as poor feeding , diarrhea , irritability , tremor , rigidity , and seizures , and manage accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride administration did not cause malformations at any doses evaluated during developmental toxicity studies in rats ( ≤ 25 mg / kg / day ) or rabbits ( ≤ 50 mg / kg / day ) .
These doses are ~ 3 - fold and ~ 12 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours , based on body surface area .
There were no developmental effects in rats treated with 5 mg / kg / day or rabbits treated with 25 mg / kg / day .
Fetal weights were reduced in rats and rabbits given doses of ≥ 10 mg / kg / day and 50 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are ~ 1 . 2 - fold and ~ 12 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours based on body surface area , respectively .
There were no effects of oxymorphone hydrochloride on intrauterine survival in rats at doses ≤ 25 mg / kg / day , or rabbits at ≤ 50 mg / kg / day in these studies ( see Non - teratogenic Effects , below ) .
In a study that was conducted prior to the establishment of Good Laboratory Practices ( GLP ) and not according to current recommended methodology , a single subcutaneous injection of oxymorphone hydrochloride on gestation day 8 was reported to produce malformations in offspring of hamsters that received 15 . 5 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours based on body surface area .
This dose also produced 20 % maternal lethality .
Non - teratogenic Effects Oxymorphone hydrochloride administration to female rats during gestation in a pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity study reduced mean litter size ( 18 % ) at a dose of 25 mg / kg / day , attributed to an increased incidence of stillborn pups .
An increase in neonatal death occurred at ≥ 5 mg / kg / day .
Post - natal survival of the pups was reduced throughout weaning following treatment of the dams with 25 mg / kg / day .
Low pup birth weight and decreased postnatal weight gain occurred in pups born to oxymorphone - treated pregnant rats given a dose of 25 mg / kg / day .
This dose is ~ 3 - fold higher than the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours on a body surface area basis .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression in neonates .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for use in women during and immediately prior to labor , when shorter acting analgesics or other analgesic techniques are more appropriate .
Opioid analgesics can prolong labor through actions that temporarily reduce the strength , duration , and frequency of uterine contractions .
However this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilatation , which tends to shorten labor .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether oxymorphone is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs , including some opioids , are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Monitor infants who may be exposed to oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets through breast milk for excess sedation and respiratory depression .
Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breast - fed infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped , or when breast - feeding is stopped .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients below the age of 18 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , 27 % were 65 and over , while 9 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
There were several adverse events that were more frequently observed in subjects 65 and over compared to younger subjects .
These adverse events included dizziness , somnolence , confusion , and nausea .
On average , age greater than 65 years was associated with a 1 . 4 - fold increase in oxymorphone AUC and a 1 . 5 - fold increase in Cmax .
Initiate dosing with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients 65 years of age and over using the 5 mg dose and monitor closely for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression when initiating and titrating oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start at 50 % of the starting dose for a younger patient on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with mild hepatic impairment have an increase in oxymorphone bioavailability of 1 . 6 - fold .
In opioid - naïve patients with mild hepatic impairment , initiate oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets using the 5 mg dose and monitor closely for respiratory and central nervous system depression .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated for patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start at the 50 % of the dose for that a patient with normal hepatic function on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment were shown to have an increase in oxymorphone bioavailability ranging from 57 to 65 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Start opioid - naïve patients with the 5 mg dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and titrate slowly while closely monitoring for respiratory and central nervous system depression [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
For patients on prior opioid therapy , start at 50 % of the dose for a patient with normal renal function on prior opioids and titrate slowly .
8 . 8 Infertility Chronic use of opioids may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential .
It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets contain oxymorphone , a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids including fentanyl , hydromorphone , methadone , morphine , oxycodone and tapentadol .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The high drug content in extended release formulations adds to the risk of adverse outcomes from abuse and misuse .
9 . 2 Abuse All patients treated with opioids require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , since use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use .
Drug abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of an over - the - counter or prescription drug , even once , for its rewarding psychological or physiological effects .
Drug abuse includes , but is not limited to the following examples : the use of a prescription or over - the counter drug to get " high " , or the use of steroids for performance enhancement and muscle build up .
Drug addiction is a cluster of behavioral , cognitive , and physiological phenomena that develop after repeated substance use and include : a strong desire to take the drug , difficulties in controlling its use , persisting in its use despite harmful consequences , a higher priority given to drug use than to other activities and obligations , increased tolerance , and sometimes a physical withdrawal .
" Drug seeking " behavior is very common to addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated claims of loss of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
“ Doctor shopping ” ( visiting multiple prescribers ) to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Preoccupation with achieving adequate pain relief can be appropriate behavior in a patient with poor pain control .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , like other opioids , can be diverted for non - medical use into illicit channels of distribution .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests as required by state law , is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to reduce abuse of opioid drugs .
Risks Specific to Abuse of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are for oral use only .
Abuse of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets poses a risk of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets with alcohol and other substances .
Taking cut , broken , chewed , crushed , or dissolved oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets enhances drug release and increases the risk of over dose and death .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
9 . 3 Dependence Both tolerance and physical dependence can develop during chronic opioid therapy .
Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Tolerance may occur to both the desired and undesired effects of drugs , and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Physical dependence results in withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug .
Withdrawal also may be precipitated through the administration of drugs with opioid antagonist activity , e . g . , naloxone , nalmefene , mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics ( pentazocine , butorphanol , nalbuphine ) , or partial agonists ( buprenorphine ) .
Physical dependence may not occur to a clinically significant degree until after several days to weeks of continued opioid usage .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be abruptly discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
If oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are abruptly discontinued in a physically - dependent patient , an abstinence syndrome may occur .
Some or all of the following can characterize this syndrome : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other signs and symptoms also may develop , including : irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdosage with oxymorphone is manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , and , sometimes , pulmonary edema , bradycardia , hypotension , and death .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to severe hypoxia in overdose situations .
Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose , priorities are the re - establishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation if needed .
Employ other supportive measures ( including oxygen , vasopressors ) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life support techniques .
The opioid antagonists , naloxone or nalmefene , are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose .
Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to oxymorphone overdose .
Such agents should be administered cautiously to patients who are known , or suspected to be , physically dependent on oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In such cases , an abrupt or complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
Because the duration of reversal would be expected to be less than the duration of action of oxymorphone in oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably re - established .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets will continue to release oxymorphone adding to the oxymorphone load for up to 24 hours after administration , necessitating prolonged monitoring .
If the response to opioid antagonists is suboptimal or not sustained , additional antagonist should be given as directed in the product ’ s prescribing information .
In an individual physically dependent on opioids , administration of an opioid receptor antagonist may precipitate an acute withdrawal .
The severity of the withdrawal produced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered .
If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , administration of the antagonist should be begun with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist .
11 DESCRIPTION Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are for oral use and contain oxymorphone , a semi - synthetic opioid analgesic .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are supplied in 5 mg , 7 . 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , and 40 mg tablet strengths for oral administration .
The tablet strength describes the amount of oxymorphone hydrochloride , USP per tablet .
The tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : hydrophobic colloidal silica , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , silicified microcrystalline cellulose , sodium stearyl fumarate , talc , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 5 mg and 30 mg tablets contain FD & C red No . 40 .
The 7 . 5 mg tablets contain ferric oxide black , and ferric oxide yellow .
The 10 mg tablets contain ferric oxide yellow and FD & C yellow No . 6 .
The 20 mg tablets contain D & C yellow No . 10 , FD & C blue No . 1 , and FD & C yellow No . 6 .
The 30 mg tablets contain FD & C blue No . 1 and FD & C yellow No . 6 .
The 40 mg tablets contain D & C yellow No . 10 and FD & C yellow No . 6 .
The chemical name of oxymorphone hydrochloride is 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 , 14 - dihydroxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride , a white to off - white powder , which is sparingly soluble in alcohol , but freely soluble in water .
The molecular weight of oxymorphone hydrochloride is 337 . 80 .
The molecular formula of oxymorphone hydrochloride is C17H19NO4 . HCl .
The pKa1 and pKa2 of oxymorphone at 37 ° C are 8 . 17 and 9 . 54 , respectively .
The octanol / aqueous partition coefficient at 37 ° C and pH 7 . 4 is 0 . 98 .
The structural formula for oxymorphone hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxymorphone , an opioid agonist , is relatively selective for the mu receptor , although it can interact with other opioid receptors at higher doses .
The precise mechanism of analgesia , the principal therapeutic action of oxymorphone , is unknown .
Specific central nervous system ( CNS ) opiate receptors and endogenous compounds with morphine - like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are likely to play a role in the expression and perception of analgesic effects .
In addition , opioid receptors have also been identified within the peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) .
The role that these receptors play in these drugs ’ analgesic effects is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Concentration - Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective plasma concentration of oxymorphone for analgesia varies widely among patients , especially among patients who have been previously treated with agonist opioids .
As a result , individually titrate patients to achieve a balance between therapeutic and adverse effects .
The minimum effective analgesic concentration of oxymorphone for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain , progression of disease , development of a new pain syndrome and / or potential development of analgesic tolerance .
Concentration - Adverse Experience Relationships There is a general relationship between increasing opioid plasma concentration and increasing frequency of adverse experiences such as nausea , vomiting , CNS effects , and respiratory depression .
CNS Depressant / Alcohol Interaction Additive pharmacodynamic effects may be expected when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression .
Effects on the Central Nervous System ( CNS ) The principal therapeutic action of oxymorphone is analgesia .
Oxymorphone causes respiratory depression , in part by a direct effect on the brainstem respiratory centers .
The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation .
Oxymorphone depresses the cough reflex by direct effect on the cough center in the medulla .
Oxymorphone causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origin may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Other therapeutic effects of oxymorphone include anxiolysis , euphoria , and feeling of relaxation , drowsiness and changes in mood .
Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and on Other Smooth Muscle Gastric , biliary and pancreatic secretions are decreased by oxymorphone .
Oxymorphone causes a reduction in motility and is associated with an increase in tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone is increased to the point of spasm .
The end result is constipation .
Oxymorphone can cause a marked increase in biliary tract pressure as a result of spasm of the sphincter of Oddi , and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Oxymorphone may also cause spasm of the sphincter of the urinary bladder .
Effects on the Cardiovascular System Oxymorphone produces peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension .
Release of histamine can occur and may contribute to opioid - induced hypotension .
Manifestations of histamine release may include orthostatic hypotension , pruritus , flushing , red eyes , and sweating .
Effects on the Endocrine System Opioid agonists have been shown to have a variety of effects on the secretion of hormones .
Opioids inhibit the secretion of ACTH , cortisol , and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) in humans .
They also stimulate prolactin , growth hormone ( GH ) secretion , and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon .
Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute oral bioavailability of oxymorphone is approximately 10 % .
Steady - state levels are achieved after three days of multiple dose administration .
Under both single - dose and steady - state conditions , dose proportionality has been established for the 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg doses of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , for both peak plasma levels ( Cmax ) and extent of absorption ( AUC ) ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Mean ( ± SD ) Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Pharmacokinetic Parameters Regimen Dosage Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUC ( ng • hr / mL ) T1 / 2 ( hr ) Single Dose 5 mg 0 . 27 ± 0 . 13 4 . 54 ± 2 . 04 11 . 30 ± 10 . 81 10 mg 0 . 65 ± 0 . 29 8 . 94 ± 4 . 16 9 . 83 ± 5 . 68 20 mg 1 . 21 ± 0 . 77 17 . 81 ± 7 . 22 9 . 89 ± 3 . 21 40 mg 2 . 59 ± 1 . 65 37 . 90 ± 16 . 20 9 . 35 ± 2 . 94 Multiple Dosea 5 mg 0 . 70 ± 0 . 55 5 . 60 ± 3 . 87 NA 10 mg 1 . 24 ± 0 . 56 9 . 77 ± 3 . 52 NA 20 mg 2 . 54 ± 1 . 35 19 . 28 ± 8 . 32 NA 40 mg 4 . 47 ± 1 . 91 36 . 98 ± 13 . 53 NA NA = not applicable a Results after 5 days of q12h dosing .
Food Effect Two studies examined the effect of food on the bioavailability of single doses of 20 and 40 mg of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in healthy volunteers .
In both studies , after the administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the Cmax was increased by approximately 50 % in fed subjects compared to fasted subjects .
A similar increase in Cmax was also observed with oxymorphone solution .
The AUC was unchanged in one study and increased by approximately 18 % in the other study in fed subjects following the administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Examination of the AUC suggests that most of the difference between fed and fasting conditions occurs in the first four hours after dose administration .
After oral dosing with a single dose of 40 mg , a peak oxymorphone plasma level of 2 . 8 ng / mL is achieved at 1 hour in fasted subjects and a peak of 4 . 25 ng / mL is achieved at 2 hours in fed subjects and that beyond the 12 hour time point , there is very little difference in the curves .
As a result , oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be dosed at least one hour prior to or two hours after eating [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distribution Formal studies on the distribution of oxymorphone in various tissues have not been conducted .
Oxymorphone is not extensively bound to human plasma proteins ; binding is in the range of 10 % to 12 % .
Metabolism Oxymorphone is highly metabolized , principally in the liver , and undergoes reduction or conjugation with glucuronic acid to form both active and inactive metabolites .
The two major metabolites of oxymorphone are oxymorphone - 3 - glucuronide and 6 - OH - oxymorphone .
The mean plasma AUC for oxymorphone - 3 - glucuronide is approximately 90 - fold higher than the parent compound .
The pharmacologic activity of the glucuronide metabolite has not been evaluated .
6 - OH - oxymorphone has been shown in animal studies to have analgesic bioactivity .
The mean plasma 6 - OH - oxymorphone AUC is approximately 70 % of the oxymorphone AUC following single oral doses , but is essentially equivalent to the parent compound at steady - state .
Excretion Because oxymorphone is extensively metabolized , < 1 % of the administered dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
On average , 33 % to 38 % of the administered dose is excreted in the urine as oxymorphone - 3 - glucuronide and less than 1 % excreted as 6 - OH - oxymorphone in subjects with normal hepatic and renal function .
In animals given radiolabeled oxymorphone , approximately 90 % of the administered radioactivity was recovered within 5 days of dosing .
The majority of oxymorphone - derived radioactivity was found in the urine and feces .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients The steady - state plasma concentrations of oxymorphone , 6 - OH - oxymorphone , and oxymorphone - 3 - glucuronide are approximately 40 % higher in elderly subjects ( ≥ 65 years of age ) than in young subjects ( 18 to 40 years of age ) .
On average , age greater than 65 years was associated with a 1 . 4 - fold increase in oxymorphone AUC and a 1 . 5 - fold increase in Cmax .
This observation does not appear related to a difference in body weight , metabolism , or excretion of oxymorphone [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Gender The effect of gender was evaluated following single - and multiple - doses of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in male and female adult volunteers .
There was a consistent tendency for female subjects to have slightly higher AUCss and Cmax values than male subjects ; however , gender differences were not observed when AUCss and Cmax were adjusted by body weight .
Hepatic Impairment The bioavailability of orally administered oxymorphone is markedly increased in patients with moderate to severe liver disease .
The disposition of oxymorphone was compared in six patients with mild , five patients with moderate , and one patient with severe hepatic impairment and 12 subjects with normal hepatic function .
The bioavailability of oxymorphone was increased by 1 . 6 - fold in patients with mild hepatic impairment and by 3 . 7 - fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
In one patient with severe hepatic impairment , the bioavailability was increased by 12 . 2 - fold .
The half - life of oxymorphone was not significantly affected by hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment Data from a pharmacokinetic study involving 24 patients with renal dysfunction show an increase of 26 % , 57 % , and 65 % in oxymorphone bioavailability in mild ( creatinine clearance 51 to 80 mL / min ; n = 8 ) , moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ; n = 8 ) , and severe ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ; n = 8 ) patients , respectively , compared to healthy controls .
Drug Interaction / Alcohol Interaction An in vivo study of the effect of alcohol ( 40 % , 20 % , 4 % and 0 % ) on the bioavailability of a single dose of 40 mg of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets in healthy , fasted volunteers demonstrated a highly variable effect on Cmax with concomitant administration of alcohol and oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
The change in Cmax ranged from a decrease of 50 % to an increase of 270 % across all conditions studied .
Following administration of 240 mL of 40 % ethanol , the Cmax increased on average by 70 % and up to 270 % in individual subjects .
Following the concomitant administration of 240 mL of 20 % ethanol , the Cmax increased on average by 31 % and up to 260 % in individual subjects .
Following the concomitant administration of 240 mL of 4 % ethanol , the Cmax increased 7 % on average and by as much as 110 % for individual subjects .
After oral dosing with a single dose of 40 mg in fasted subjects , the mean peak oxymorphone plasma level is 2 . 4 ng / mL and the median Tmax is 2 hours .
Following co - administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and alcohol ( 240 mL of 40 % ethanol ) in fasted subjects , the mean peak oxymorphone level is 3 . 9 ng / mL and the median Tmax is 1 . 5 hours ( range 0 . 75 to 6 hours ) .
The oxymorphone mean AUC was 13 % higher after co - administration of 240 mL of 40 % alcohol .
The AUC was essentially unaffected in subjects following the co - administration of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and ethanol ( 240 mL of 20 % or 4 % ethanol ) .
In vitro studies have demonstrated that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not release oxymorphone more rapidly in 500 mL of 0 . 1 N HCl solutions containing ethanol ( 4 % , 20 % , and 40 % ) , Instruct patients to avoid use of alcohol when taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In vitro studies revealed little to no biotransformation of oxymorphone to 6 - OH - oxymorphone by any of the major cytochrome P450 ( CYP P450 ) isoforms at therapeutically relevant oxymorphone plasma concentrations .
No inhibition of any of the major CYP P450 isoforms was observed when oxymorphone was incubated with human liver microsomes at concentrations of ≤ 15 . 1 mcg / mL .
An inhibition of CYP3A4 activity occurred at oxymorphone concentrations ≥ 45 . 3 mcg / mL .
Therefore , it is not expected that oxymorphone , or its metabolites will act as inhibitors of any of the major CYP P450 enzymes in vivo .
Increases in the activity of the CYP 2C9 and CYP 3A4 isoforms occurred when oxymorphone was incubated with human hepatocytes .
However , clinical drug interaction studies with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets showed no induction of CYP450 3A4 or 2C9 enzyme activity , indicating that no dose adjustment for CYP 3A4 - or 2C9 - mediated drug - drug interactions is required .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies have been completed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of oxymorphone in both Sprague - Dawley rats and CD - 1 mice .
Oxymorphone HCl was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats ( 2 . 5 , 5 , and 10 mg / kg / day in males and 5 , 10 , and 25 mg / kg / day in females ) for 2 years by oral gavage .
The systemic drug exposure ( AUC ng • h / mL ) at the 10 mg / kg / day in male rats was 0 . 34 - fold and at the 25 mg / kg / day dose in female rats was 1 . 5 - fold the human exposure at a dose of 260 mg / day .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in rats .
Oxymorphone was administered to CD - 1 mice ( 10 , 25 , 75 and 150 mg / kg / day ) for 2 years by oral gavage .
The systemic drug exposure ( AUC ng • h / mL ) at the 150 mg / kg / day dose in mice was 14 . 5 - fold ( in males ) and 17 . 3 - fold ( in females ) times the human exposure at a dose of 260 mg / day .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice .
Mutagenesis Oxymorphone hydrochloride was not mutagenic when tested in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) at concentrations of ≤ 5270 mcg / plate , or in an in vitro mammalian cell chromosome aberration assay performed with human peripheral blood lymphocytes at concentrations ≤ 5000 mcg / mL with or without metabolic activation .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride tested positive in both the rat and mouse in vivo micronucleus assays .
An increase in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes occurred in mice given doses ≥ 250 mg / kg and in rats given doses of 20 and 40 mg / kg .
A subsequent study demonstrated that oxymorphone hydrochloride was not aneugenic in mice following administration of up to 500 mg / kg .
Additional studies indicate that the increased incidence of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in rats may be secondary to increased body temperature following oxymorphone administration .
Doses associated with increased micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes also produce a marked , rapid increase in body temperature .
Pretreatment of animals with sodium salicylate minimized the increase in body temperature and prevented the increase in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes after administration of 40 mg / kg oxymorphone .
Impairment of Fertility Oxymorphone hydrochloride did not affect reproductive function or sperm parameters in male rats at any dose tested ( ≤ 50 mg / kg / day ) .
The highest dose tested is ~ 6 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours , based on body surface area .
In female rats , an increase in the length of the estrus cycle and decrease in the mean number of viable embryos , implantation sites and corpora lutea were observed at doses of oxymorphone ≥ 10 mg / kg / day .
The dose of oxymorphone associated with reproductive findings in female rats is 1 . 2 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours based on a body surface area .
The dose of oxymorphone that produced no adverse effects on reproductive findings in female rats is 0 . 6 - fold the human dose of 40 mg every 12 hours on a body surface area basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets have been evaluated in double - blind , controlled clinical trials in opioid - naïve and opioid - experienced patients with moderate to severe pain including low back pain .
12 - Week Study in Opioid - Naïve Patients with Low Back Pain Patients with chronic low back pain who were suboptimally responsive to their non - opioid therapy entered a 4 - week , open - label dose titration phase .
Patients initiated therapy with two days of treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets 5 mg , every 12 hours .
Thereafter , patients were titrated to a stabilized dose , at increments of 5 to 10 mg every 12 hours every 3 to 7 days .
Of the patients who were able to stabilize within the Open - Label Titration Period , the mean ± SD VAS score at Screening was 69 . 4 ± 11 . 8 mm and at Baseline ( beginning of Double - Blind Period ) were 18 . 5 ± 11 . 2 mm and 19 . 3 ± 11 . 3 mm for the oxymorphone ER and placebo groups , respectively .
Sixty three percent of the patients enrolled were able to titrate to a tolerable dose and were randomized into a 12 - week double - blind treatment phase with placebo or their stabilized dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
The mean ± SD stabilized doses were 39 . 2 ± 26 . 4 mg and 40 . 9 ± 25 . 3 mg for the oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and placebo groups , respectively ; total daily doses ranged from 10 to 140 mg .
During the first 4 days of double - blind treatment patients were allowed an unlimited number of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets , an immediate - release ( IR ) formulation of oxymorphone , 5 mg tablets , every 4 to 6 hours as supplemental analgesia ; thereafter the number of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets was limited to two tablets per day .
This served as a tapering method to minimize opioid withdrawal symptoms in placebo patients .
Sixty - eight percent of patients treated with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets completed the 12 - week treatment compared to 47 % of patients treated with placebo .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets provided superior analgesia compared to placebo .
The analgesic effect of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets was maintained throughout the double - blind treatment period in 89 % of patients who completed the study .
These patients reported a decrease , no change , or a ≤ 10 mm increase in VAS score from Day 7 until the end of the study .
The proportion of patients with various degrees of improvement from screening to study endpoint is shown in Figure 1 .
The figure is cumulative , so that patients whose change from baseline is , for example , 30 % , are also included at every level of improvement below 30 % .
Patients who did not complete the study were assigned 0 % improvement .
Figure 1 : Percent Reduction in Average Pain Intensity from Screening to Final Visit [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 - Week Study in Opioid - Experienced Patients with Low Back Pain Patients on chronic opioid therapy entered a 4 - week , open - label titration phase with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dosed every 12 hours at an approximated equianalgesic dose of their pre - study opioid medication .
Of the patients who were able to stabilize within the Open - Label Titration Period , the mean ± SD VAS score at Screening was 69 . 5 ± 17 mm and at Baseline ( beginning of Double - Blind Period ) were 23 . 9 ± 12 . 1 mm and 22 . 2 ± 10 . 8 mm for the oxymorphone ER and placebo groups , respectively .
Stabilized patients entered a 12 - week double - blind treatment phase with placebo or their stabilized dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
The mean ± SD stabilized doses were 80 . 9 ± 59 . 3 mg and 93 . 3 ± 61 . 3 mg for the oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and placebo groups , respectively ; total daily doses ranged from 20 to 260 mg .
During the first 4 days of double - blind treatment , patients were allowed an unlimited number of oxymorphone hydrochloride 5 mg tablets , every 4 to 6 hours as supplemental analgesia ; thereafter the number of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets was limited to two tablets per day .
This served as a tapering method to minimize opioid withdrawal symptoms in placebo patients .
Fifty seven percent of patients were titrated to a stabilized dose within approximately 4 weeks of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose titration .
Seventy percent of patients treated with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets and 26 % of patients treated with placebo completed the 12 - week treatment .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets provided superior analgesia compared to placebo .
The analgesic effect of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets was maintained throughout the double - blind treatment period in 80 % of patients who completed the study .
These patients reported a decrease , no change , or a ≤ 10 mm increase in VAS score from Day 7 until the end of the study .
The proportion of patients with various degrees of improvement from screening to study endpoint is shown in Figure 2 .
The figure is cumulative , so that patients whose change from baseline is , for example , 30 % , are also included at every level of improvement below 30 % .
Patients who did not complete the study were assigned 0 % improvement .
Figure 2 : Percent Reduction in Average Pain Intensity from Screening to Final Visit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are supplied as follows : 5 mg Pink to light pink , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RH 29 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 218 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 218 - 05 Bottles of 500 7 . 5 mg Gray to light gray , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RI 36 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 219 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 219 - 05 Bottles of 500 10 mg Orange to light orange , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RH 30 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 220 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 220 - 05 Bottles of 500 15 mg White to off - white , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RI 37 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 221 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 221 - 05 Bottles of 500 20 mg Green to light green , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RH 31 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 222 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 222 - 05 Bottles of 500 30 mg Reddish brown , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RI 38 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 223 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 223 - 05 Bottles of 500 40 mg Yellow to light yellow , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with ‘ RH 32 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 63304 - 224 - 30 Bottles of 30 with child - resistant closure NDC 63304 - 224 - 05 Bottles of 500 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse Inform patients that the use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , even when taken as recommended , can result in addiction , abuse , and misuse , which can lead to overdose or death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients not to share oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets with others and to take steps to protect oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets from theft or misuse .
Life - threatening Respiratory Depression Inform patients of the risk of life - threatening respiratory depression , including information that the risk is greatest when starting oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets or when the dose is increased , and that it can occur even at recommended doses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients how to recognize respiratory depression and to seek medical attention if breathing difficulties develop .
Accidental Ingestion Inform patients that accidental ingestion , especially in children , may result in respiratory depression or death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to take steps to store oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets securely to dispose of unused oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets by flushing the tablets down the toilet .
Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Inform female patients of reproductive potential that prolonged use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , which may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Interactions with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Inform patients and caregivers that potentially fatal additive effects may occur if oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants , including alcohol , and not to use these concomitantly unless supervised by a health care provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Anaphylaxis .
Angioedema , and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with ingredients contained in oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Advise patients how to recognize such a reaction and when to seek medical attention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 .
7 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Inform patients that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets could cause a rare but potentially life - threatening condition resulting from concomitant administration of serotonergic drugs .
Warn patients of the symptoms of serotonin syndrome and to seek medical attention right away if symptoms develop .
Instruct patients to inform their physicians if they are taking , or plan to take serotonergic medications [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Adrenal Insufficiency Inform patients that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets could cause adrenal insufficiency , a potentially life ‑ threatening condition .
Adrenal insufficiency may present with non - specific symptoms and signs such as nausea , vomiting , anorexia , fatigue , weakness , dizziness , and low blood pressure .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they experience a constellation of these symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients how to properly take oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , including the following : • • Swallowing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole • • Not crushing , chewing , or dissolving the tablets • • Using oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed to reduce the risk of life - threatening adverse reactions ( e . g . , respiratory depression ) • • Not discontinuing oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets without first discussing the need for a tapering regimen with the prescriber Hypotension Inform patients that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope .
Instruct patients how to recognize symptoms of low blood pressure and how to reduce the risk of serious consequences should hypotension occur ( e . g . , sit or lie down , carefully rise from a sitting or lying position ) .
Driving or Operating Heavy Machinery Inform patients that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair the ability to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating heavy machinery .
Advise patients not to perform such tasks until they know how they will react to the medication .
Constipation Advise patients of the potential for severe constipation , including management instructions and when to seek medical attention .
Pregnancy Advise female patients that oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause fetal harm and to inform the prescriber if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Disposal of Unused Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Advise patients to flush the unused tablets down the toilet when oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are no longer needed .
MEDICATION GUIDE OXYMORPHONE HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , FOR ORAL USE , CII Rx only Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets are : • • A strong prescription pain medicine that contains an opioid ( narcotic ) that is used to manage pain severe enough to require daily around - the - clock , long - term treatment with an opioid , when other pain treatments such as non - opioid pain medicines or immediate - release opioid medicines do not treat your pain well enough or you cannot tolerate them .
• • A long - acting ( extended - release ) opioid pain medicine that can put you at risk for overdose and death .
Even if you take your dose correctly as prescribed you are at risk for opioid addiction , abuse , and misuse that can lead to death .
• • Not for use to treat pain that is not around - the - clock .
Important information about oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets : • • Get emergency help right away if you take too much oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( overdose ) .
When you first start taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , when your dose is changed , or if you take too much ( overdose ) , serious or life - threatening breathing problems that can lead to death may occur .
• • Taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets with other opioid medicines , benzodiazepines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , decreased awareness , breathing problems , coma , and death .
• • Never give anyone your oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
They could die from taking it .
Store oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets away from children and in a safe place to prevent stealing or abuse .
Selling or giving away oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets is against the law .
Do not take oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you have : • • severe asthma , trouble breathing , or other lung problems .
• • a bowel blockage or have narrowing of the stomach or intestines .
Before taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you have a history of : • • head injury , seizures • • liver , kidney , thyroid problems • • problems urinating • • pancreas or gallbladder problems • • abuse of street or prescription drugs , alcohol addiction , or mental health problems .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are : • • pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
Prolonged use of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can cause withdrawal symptoms in your newborn baby that could be life - threatening if not recognized and treated .
• • breastfeeding .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride passes into breast milk and may harm your baby .
• • taking prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets with certain other medicines can cause serious side effects .
When taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets : • • Do not change your dose .
Take oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• • Take your prescribed dose every 12 hours at the same time every day on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals .
Do not take more than your prescribed dose in 24 hours .
If you miss a dose , take your next dose at your usual time .
• • Swallow oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
Do not cut , break , chew , crush , dissolve , snort , or inject oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets because this may cause you to overdose and die .
• • Call your healthcare provider if the dose you are taking does not control your pain .
• • Do not stop taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets without talking to your healthcare provider .
• • After you stop taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets , flush any unused tablets down the toilet .
While taking oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets DO NOT : • • Drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets affect you .
Oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets can make you sleepy , dizzy , or lightheaded .
• • Drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
Using products containing alcohol during treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause you to overdose and die .
The possible side effects of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets : • • constipation , nausea , sleepiness , vomiting , tiredness , headache , dizziness , abdominal pain .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any of these symptoms and they are severe .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • • trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , chest pain , swelling of your face , tongue , throat , or hands , hives , itching , rash , extreme drowsiness , light - headedness when changing positions , feeling faint , agitation , high body temperature , trouble walking , stiff muscles , or mental changes such as confusion .
These are not all the possible side effects of oxymorphone hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
For more information go to dailymed . nlm . nih . gov This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA www . ranbaxyusa . com or call 1 - 888 - 726 - 2299 • September 2016 FDA - 06 PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 218 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 5 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 219 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 7 . 5 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 220 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 10 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 221 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 15 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 222 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 20 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 223 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 30 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RANBAXY NDC 63304 - 224 - 30 Twice - A - Day ( every 12 hours ) OXYMORPHONE HCl EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , CII 40 mg DISPENSE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT • Rx only30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
