Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl Alcohol 80 % V / V Purpose Antiseptic Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that can potentially cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do Not Use - On children less than 2 months of age - On open skin wounds Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other Information - Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) - Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Purified water , Glycerin , Hydrogen Peroxide FRAGRANCE FREE * Close Cap After Use * NPN 80103441 NDC 78806 - 600 - XX Manufactured By : All Clean Natural 5310 1 St SW Calgary , AB T2H 0C8 allcleannatural . com DIRECTIONS : For first use , remove lid .
Thread wipe from center of roll through dispensing hole in the lid and pull wipe up and slightly downwards to the side .
Snap lid securely shut .
Remove cap and pull wipe to the side to dispense .
Keep cap closed between uses to prevent moisture loss .
Wipe hands , discard .
WARNING : For external use only .
Do not ingest .
If ingested , drink plenty of water and contact poison control .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
If skin irritation occurs , discontinue use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Children must be under adult supervision while using this product .
This product contains 80 % ethyl alcohol and may damage certain surfaces .
Always test in an inconspicuous area first to ensure the surface will not be damaged .
Not recommended for varnished , painted , or coated surfaces where other solvents may damage the finish .
WHO Recommended Formula .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
