Drug Facts Active Ingredients & Purposes Active Ingredient Purpose Benzocaine 10 % ........................................................
Oral pain reliever Uses Temporarily relieves pain due to • canker sores • cold sores • fever blisters • minor irritations or injury of the mouth and gums Warnings For oral use only .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Flammability warning : Keep away from fire or flame .
Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens swelling , rash , or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply product with cotton swab or clean fingertip to the affected area • adults and children 2 years of age and older : use up times 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children should be supervised in the use of this product .
• children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not use if imprinted safety seal is torn , broken or missing prior to opening • keep carton for full drug facts Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , peppermint oil , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , sodium saccharin , tannic acid Questions ?
1 - 855 - 452 - 9500 or email at info @ leosonsintl . com Principal Display Panel • canker sores • gum irritations • cold sores • fever blisters Tanac ® Benzocaine 10 % Oral Pain Reliever NO STING LIQUID 0 . 45 FL Oz .
( 13 . 3 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
