WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Women over 35 years old who smoke should not use Fayosim .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
[ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Contraindications ( 4 ) 8 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) 8 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fayosim is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy ( 1 ) .
Fayosim ™ is indicated for use by females of reproductive age to prevent pregnancy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days ( 2 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended - Cycle wallet .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Take Fayosim Instruct patients to take Fayosim once a day by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Fayosim must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
For patient instructions regarding missed pills , seeFDA - approved patient labeling .
2 . 2 How to Start Fayosim For each 91 - day course , take in the following order : • Start the first pink tablet ( 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol ) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , take the tablet on that day .
Then take one pink tablet once a day for a total of 42 consecutive days .
Use a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of treatment .
• One white tablet ( 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol ) once a day for 21 consecutive days .
• One lightblue tablet ( 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol ) once a day for 21 days .
• One mustard tablet ( 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol ) once a day for 7 days .
Bleeding should occur during mustard tablet use .
Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day courses of Fayosim without interruption on the same day of the week ( i . e . , Sunday ) on which the patient began her first dose .
Follow the same schedule as the initial 91 - day course : pink tablet once a day for 42 days , white tablet once a day for 21 days , light blue tablet once a day for 21 days , and mustard tablet once a day for 7 days .
If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack , instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until she has taken a pink tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider .
For a postpartum woman who is not breastfeeding or after a second trimester abortion , start Fayosim no earlier than four weeks postpartum due to increased risk of thromboembolism .
If the patient starts on Fayosim postpartum and has not yet had a period , evaluate for possible pregnancy , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a pink tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation .
2 . 3 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a pink , white or light blue tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - approved patient labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Fayosim consist of 91 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 42 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , • 21 white tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and • 21 light blue tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and • 7 mustard tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
( 3 ) Fayosim ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) are available as round , film - coated , biconvex tablets debossed with " LU " on one side , packaged in Extended - Cycle wallet , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets in the following order : • 42 pink tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " U19 " on the other side • 21 white tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " U20 " on the other side • 21 light blue tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " V21 " on the other side and • 7 mustard tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " V22 " on the other side 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) Do not prescribe Fayosim to women who are known to have the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have cerebrovascular disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have coronary artery disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Have diabetes with vascular disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ] .
• Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with or without aura if over age 35 [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop Fayosim if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop Fayosim at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start Fayosim no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue Fayosim if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : Do not prescribe Fayosim for women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease .
( 5 . 3 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Fayosim .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Fayosim if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems Stop Fayosim if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event ( VTE ) occurs .
Stop Fayosim if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
If feasible , stop Fayosim at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE .
Start Fayosim no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC .
Data from a large , prospective cohort safety study of various COCs suggest that this increased risk , as compared to that in non - COC users , is greatest during the first 6 months of COC use .
Data from this safety study indicate that the greatest risk of VTE is present after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Use of Fayosim provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly oral contraceptives containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 and 13 weeks of exposure to progestin and estrogen , respectively , per year ) .
In the clinical trial , three cases of deep vein thrombosis were reported .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) , although , in general , the risk is greatest among older ( > 35 years of age ) , and hypertensive women who also smoke .
COCs also increase the risk for stroke in women with other underlying risk factors .
Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Fayosim in women with acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
Acute disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Fayosim if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Fayosim is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 High Blood Pressure Fayosim is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Fayosim if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentration of progestin .
5 . 4 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains obmitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Fayosim prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
Fayosim can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking Fayosim .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance in a dose - related fashion .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking Fayosim develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Fayosim if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Fayosim in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities Bleeding and / or spotting that occurs at any time while taking the first 84 tablets ( pink , white and light blue ) of each extended - cycle regimen is considered " unscheduled " bleeding / spotting .
Bleeding that occurs during the time a woman takes the seven tablets ( mustard ) containing 10 mcg of ethinyl estradiol is considered " scheduled " bleeding .
Unscheduled and Scheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first 3 months of use .
If unscheduled bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles on Fayosim , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC .
Before prescribing Fayosim , consider the occurrence of fewer scheduled menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) against the occurrence of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
A 12 - month open - label study of the efficacy of Fayosim in preventing pregnancy assessed scheduled and unscheduled bleeding [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] in 3 , 597 women who completed 34 , 087 28 - day cycles of exposure .
A total of 178 ( 4 . 9 % ) of the women discontinued Fayosim , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly stable over time , with an average of 3 to 4 days of bleeding and / or spotting per each 91 - day cycle .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 1 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding , spotting , and unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting in Treatment Cycles 1 to 4 .
Table 1 Number of Unscheduled Bleeding , Spotting and Bleeding and / or Spotting Days per 91 - day CycleQ1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Bleeding per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 7 . 2 0 4 10 1 . 0 2 ( 2820 ) 3 . 3 0 0 4 0 . 0 3 ( 2433 ) 2 . 5 0 0 3 0 . 0 4 ( 2213 ) 2 . 2 0 0 2 0 . 0 Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Spotting per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 10 . 7 2 7 15 1 . 8 2 ( 2820 ) 6 . 7 0 3 9 0 . 8 3 ( 2433 ) 5 . 2 0 2 6 0 . 5 4 ( 2213 ) 4 . 4 0 1 5 0 . 3 Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 3330 ) 17 . 9 5 14 27 3 . 5 2 ( 2820 ) 10 . 0 1 5 14 1 . 3 3 ( 2433 ) 7 . 7 0 3 10 0 . 8 4 ( 2213 ) 6 . 6 0 3 8 0 . 8 Figure 1 shows the percent of Fayosim subjects in the primary clinical trial with ≥ 7 days or ≥ 20 days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , or just unscheduled bleeding , during each 91 - day treatment cycle .
Figure 1 : Percent of Women Taking Fayosim Who Reported Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who are not pregnant and use Fayosim may experience amenorrhea .
Based on data from the clinical trial , amenorrhea occurred in approximately 1 . 9 % of women during Cycle 1 , 7 . 7 % during Cycle 2 , 10 . 7 % during Cycle 3 , and 10 . 1 % during Cycle 4 using Fayosim .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects are concerned , when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue Fayosim if pregnancy is confirmed .
The administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Fayosim if depression recurs to a serious degree .
Six cases of suicidality ( suicide attempts and suicidal behavior ) were reported in the clinical trial ; several of these cases occurred in women with a psychiatric history .
5 . 11 Carcinoma of the Breast and Cervix Fayosim is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
There is substantial evidence that COCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that COCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin sex hormone - binding globulin and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated health care .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occur with COC use , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Advise women who tend to develop chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Fayosim .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in clinical trials for Fayosim were headaches , heavy / irregular vaginal bleeding , nausea / vomiting , acne , dysmenorrhea , weight increased , mood changes , anxiety / panic attack , breast pain and migraines ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below are from a 12 - month , US , open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 to 40 , of whom 3 , 597 took at least one dose of Fayosim ( 2 , 661 woman - years of exposure ) [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation 13 . 3 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % of women ) leading to discontinuation were heavy / irregular bleeding ( 5 . 0 % ) , mood swings / alteration / affect lability ( 1 . 4 % ) , headaches / migraines ( 1 . 3 % ) , weight increased ( 1 . 3 % ) and acne ( 1 . 0 % ) .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) Headaches ( 12 . 2 % ) , heavy / irregular vaginal bleeding ( 9 . 7 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 8 . 8 % ) , acne ( 5 . 4 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 5 . 4 % ) , weight increased ( 4 . 6 % ) , mood changes ( depression , depressed mood , crying , major depression , affective disorder , depression suicidal , dysthymic disorder ) ( 2 . 9 % ) , anxiety / panic attack ( 2 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness / pain / discomfort ( 2 . 2 % ) , migraine ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 women ) Abortion Spontaneous , Suicide Attempt , Cholecystitis / Cholelithiasis , Deep Vein Thrombosis , Ectopic Pregnancy .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of other extended - cycle COCs containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal distension , vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions Chest pain , fatigue , malaise , edema peripheral , pain Immune system disorders Hypersensitivity reaction Investigations Blood pressure increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscle spasms , pain in extremity Nervous system disorders Dizziness , loss of consciousness Psychiatric disorders Insomnia Reproductive and breast disorders Dysmenorrhea Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Pulmonary embolism , pulmonary thrombosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Alopecia Vascular disorders Thrombosis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) Consult the labeling of concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Fayosim .
7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate and products containing St . John ' s wort .
Interactions between oral contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Substances Increasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Protease Inhibitors and Non - nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV / HCV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Antibiotics There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds .
COCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Vaccine ( HCV ) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Fayosim with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Not recommended for nursing mothers ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
COCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Fayosim have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of Fayosim before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Fayosim has not been studied in women who have reached menopause and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment on the disposition of Fayosim .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
[ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of renal impairment on the disposition of Fayosim .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Fayosim ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) is an extended - cycle oral contraceptive .
Fayosim consists of 42 pink tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 white tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 21 light blue tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 mustard tablets containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Levonorgestrel is a progestin and ethinyl estradiol is an estrogen .
The structural formulas , molecular formulas , molecular weights , and chemical names for the active components are shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - ( 17α ) - ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
Each pink tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 1 aluminum lake , FD & C Red # 40 aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone and titanium dioxide .
Each white tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone and titanium dioxide .
Each light bluetablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 1 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone and titanium dioxide .
Each mustard tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrillin potassium , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP meets USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Fayosim .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours after Fayosim administration .
Levonorgestrel is completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is approximately 40 % .
The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol absorption following oral administration of Fayosim have not been evaluated .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of levonorgestrel following administration of another levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol combination tablet with an equal dose of levonorgestrel for 84 days , in healthy women are reported in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters for 150 mcg Levonorgestrel Following Administration of a Levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol Combination Tablet Once Daily for 84 Days AUC0to24hr ( mean ± SD ) Cmax ( mean ± SD ) Tmax ( mean ± SD ) Day 1 18 . 2 ± 6 . 1 ng · hr / mL 3 . 0 ± 1 . 0 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 21 64 . 4 ± 25 . 1 ng · hr / mL 6 . 2 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 84 60 . 2 ± 24 . 6 ng · hr / mL 5 . 5 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours Following repeated daily dosing of levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased SHBG levels that are induced by ethinyl estradiol , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Systemic exposure to ethinyl estradiol following administration of a LNG / EE combination tablet increases linearly in an approximate dose - proportional manner over the range of doses of 20 mcg to 30 mcg within this product .
Systemic exposure to EE ( as assessed by AUC ) at steady state following administration of levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives is approximately 20 % higher than expected based on single - dose data for the dose range of 20 to 30 mcg .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
The apparent volume of distribution of ethinyl estradiol is reported to be approximately 4 . 3 L / kg .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 95 to 97 % bound to serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate and to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol involves formation of ethinyl estradiol - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed ethinyl estradiol by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
The mean terminal elimination half - life for levonorgestrel after a single dose of Fayosim ranged from 36 to 41 hours .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The terminal elimination half - life of ethinyl estradiol following single doses of Fayosim is approximately 16 . 5 hours .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month , multicenter , open - label , single - arm clinical trial conducted in the US , 3 , 667 women , 18 to 40 years old , were enrolled and 3 , 565 were treated for up to four 91 - day cycles , which equates to thirteen 28 - day cycles , to assess the safety and efficacy of Fayosim , completing the equivalent of 33 , 895 28 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those treated was : Caucasian ( 64 % ) , African - American ( 19 % ) , Hispanic ( 11 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 3 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range of those women treated was 83 to 402 lbs . , with a mean weight of 162 . 5 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 44 % were current hormonal contraceptive users , 39 % were prior users ( who had used hormonal contraceptives in the past ) , and 17 % were new starters .
Of treated women , 13 . 2 % were lost to follow - up , 12 . 8 % discontinued due to an adverse event , and 6 . 1 % discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women aged 18 to 35 years was 3 . 19 pregnancies per 100 woman - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 2 . 49 , 4 . 03 ) , based on 70 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and up to and including 7 days after the last pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes patients who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Fayosim ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) are available in Extended - Cycle Wallets each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets in the following order : • 42 pink , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " LU " on one side and " U19 " on the other side .
• 21 white , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " LU " on one side and " U20 " on the other side .
• 21 light blue , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " LU " on one side and " V21 " on the other side .
• 7 mustard , round , biconvex film - coated tablets , containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol : debossed with " LU " on one side and " V22 " on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : 1 extended cycle wallet of 91 tablets which is packed in a pouch ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 11 ) .
Such one pouch is packed in a carton ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 12 ) .
2 extended cycle wallets of 91 tablets each which is packed in a pouch ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 11 ) .
Such two pouches are packed in a carton ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 13 ) .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Counsel patients on the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC .
• Fayosim does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• The Warnings and Precautions associated with COCs .
• Fayosim is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Fayosim , instruct the patient to stop further intake .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS section of FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a pink tablet for 7 consecutive days .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea , and rule out pregnancy if amenorrhea is associated with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
Distributed by : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 INDIA November 2017 ID # : 242170 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Guide for Using Fayosim ™ [ levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg and 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg ) , and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( 0 . 01 mg ) ] WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use Fayosim if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Birth control pills help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
What is Fayosim ?
Fayosim is a birth control pill .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol and a progestin called levonorgestrel .
How Well Does Fayosim Work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a single clinical study lasting 12 months , 2 to 4 women out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Fayosim .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How Do I Take Fayosim ?
1 .
Take one pill every day at the same time .
Take pills in the order directed on the Extended - Cycle wallet .
Do not skip pills or delay taking your pills .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) , you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
2 .
You may have spotting or light bleeding , or feel sick to your stomach during the first few months of taking Fayosim .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
If you vomit or have diarrhea within 4 hours after taking your pill , follow the instructions in " What To Do If You Miss Pills . "
3 .
Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
4 .
If you have trouble remembering to take Fayosim , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
Before you start taking Fayosim 1 .
Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
2 .
Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Wallet .
Your Extended - Cycle Wallet consists of 3 blister strips that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 42 pink tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 white tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 025 mg ethinyl estradiol , 21 light blue tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 mustard tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
Blister strip 1 contains 4 rows of 7 pink pills .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Blister strip 2 contains 2 rows of 7 pink pills ( a total of 14 pink pills ) followed by 2 rows of 7 white pills ( a total of 14 white pills ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Blister strip 3 contains 1 row of 7 white pills , followed by three rows of 7 light blue pills ( a total of 21 light blue pills ) , followed by the last row , which contains 7 mustard pills .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Also find : • Where on the first blister strip in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner at the start arrow ) and • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks and arrow ) .
4 .
Be sure you have another kind of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) ready at all times , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When to Start Fayosim • Take the first pink pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first pink pill that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first pink pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the " patch , " or the " vaginal ring " ) , you need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms and spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken Fayosim for 7 days .
• If you have recently given birth and have not yet had a period , use another method of birth control if you have sex ( such as condoms and spermicides ) as a back - up method until you have taken Fayosim for 7 days .
How to Take Fayosim 1 .
Take one pill at the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the Extended - Cycle wallet .
• Do not skip pills even if you are experiencing spotting or bleeding or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• Do not skip the mustard pills because they are not placebo pills ( " sugar pills " ) .
They contain ethinyl estradiol .
2 .
When you finish a Wallet • After taking the last mustard pill , start taking the first pink pill from a new Extended - Cycle Wallet the very next day ( this should be on a Sunday ) regardless of when your period started .
3 .
If you miss your scheduled period when you are taking the mustard pills , contact your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you are pregnant , you should stop taking Fayosim .
What To Do If You Miss Pills If you MISS 1 pink , white or light blue pill : 1 .
Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
2 .
You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you MISS 2 pink , white or light blue pills in a row : 1 .
Take 2 pills on the day you remember , and 2 pills the next day .
2 .
Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
3 .
You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You MUST use another birth control method ( such as condoms and spermicide ) as a back up for the 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE pink , white or light blue pills in a row : 1 .
Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day as indicated on the pack until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example : If you resume taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under " Thursday " and do not take the missed pills .
You may experience bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
2 .
You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
3 .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms and spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the mustard pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you MISS ANY of the 7 mustard colored pills : 1 .
Take the next scheduled pill at the scheduled time .
2 .
You do not need a back - up method of birth control .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed 1 .
Use a back - up method anytime you have sex .
2 .
Keep taking one pill each day until you contact your healthcare provider .
Who Should Not Take Fayosim ?
Your healthcare provider will not give you Fayosim if you have : • Ever had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • Liver disease , including liver tumors • Been prescribed any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme " alanine aminotransferase " ( ALT ) in the blood • Ever had blood clots in your arms , legs , eyes , or lungs • Ever had a stroke • Ever had a heart attack • Certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • An inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • High blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • Diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve or blood vessel damage • Ever had certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or have any migraine headaches if you are over age 35 Also , do not take birth control pills if you : • Smoke and are over 35 years old • Are pregnant • Have any unexplained bleeding from the vagina Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the above conditions ( your healthcare provider may recommend another method of birth control . )
What Else Should I Know About Taking Fayosim ?
Birth control pills do notprotect you against any sexually transmitted infection , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
You should stop Fayosim at least four weeks before you have major surgery and not restart it for at least two weeks after the surgery , due to an increased risk of blood clots .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like Fayosim , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ' s wort • topiramate Use a back - up or alternative birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like condoms and spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your healthcare provider may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone .
What Are The Most Serious Risks Of Taking Birth Control Pills ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
This increased risk is highest when you first start taking birth control pills and when you restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) Women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure • Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain or pressure in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What Are Common Side Effects Of Birth Control Pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat ( cholesterol , triglyceride ) levels in the blood • Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight gain This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
Do Birth Control Pills Cause Cancer ?
Birth control pills do not appear to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What Should I Know About My Period When Taking Fayosim ?
When you take Fayosim , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should expect to have 4 scheduled periods per year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 mustard pills ) .
Each period is likely to last about 3 to 4 days .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with each additional cycle .
Do not stop taking Fayosim because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
What If I Miss My Scheduled Period When Taking Fayosim ?
You should consider the possibility that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the days that you are taking mustard pills ) .
Because scheduled periods are less frequent when you are taking Fayosim , notify your healthcare provider that you have missed your period and that you are taking Fayosim .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider evaluates you to determine if you are pregnant .
Stop taking Fayosim if it is determined that you are pregnant .
What If I Want To Become Pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
General Advice About Fayosim Your healthcare provider prescribed Fayosim for you .
Do not share Fayosim with anyone else .
Keep Fayosim out of the reach of children .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your healthcare provider for a more detailed label written for medical professionals .
Distributed by : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India November 2017 ID # : 242171 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fayosim ™ ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0 . 01 mg ) 1 extended cycle wallet of 91 tablets in a carton ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 12 ) .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fayosim ™ ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0 . 01 mg ) 2 extended cycle wallets of 91 tablets in a carton ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 13 ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fayosim ™ ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0 . 01 mg ) Pouch Label ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 11 ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fayosim ™ ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 02 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 025 mg , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0 . 01 mg ) Wallet Label ( NDC 68180 - 860 - 11 ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
