Active Ingredient ( s ) Hypochlorous acid 111 mg / L .
Purpose : Kill pyogenic coccus , intestinal pathogenic bacteria , pathogenic yeast , and common bacteria of hospital infection .
Purpose It is suitable for surgical hand antisepsis , hygienic hand antisepsis , skin disinfection ( including damaged skin ) , disinfection of mucous membrane , general subject surface disinfection and air disinfection .
Use It is suitable for surgical hand antisepsis , hygienic hand antisepsis , skin disinfection ( including damaged skin ) , disinfection of mucous membrane , general subject surface disinfection and air disinfection .
Warnings External Use Only .
Keep out of reach children .
❶ Can ’ t mix with other product ; ❷ Keep out of the sunlight , store in cool dry place , sealed preservation ; ❸ Undrinkable water .
Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • mixing this product with other disinfectants When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
This product is for external use .
It should not be taken orally .
This product has a certain corrosive effect on metal objects other than stainless steel , and should be used with caution .
When sterilizing articles containing more organic objects , they should be completely removed and then disinfected .
Use with caution for those with sensitive skin .
Do not mix this product with other disinfectants .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Other information Storage : place it in a normal temperature and light - shielded environment .
Directions Content exposure time Methods hygienic hand antisepsis 1 min After washing hands , spray the product directly on both hands and rub surgical hand antisepsis 3 min Wash and dry hands , forearms and lower upper arms with soap solution , then spray with appropriate amount of disinfectant and rub until dry disinfection of skin and mucous membranes 3 min Spray , repeatedly wipe or soak general subject surface disinfection 3 min spray , wipe or soak with the product directly air disinfection 30 min spray with the product directly in the air with the dosage of 10 ml / m3 Inactive ingredients Sodium chloride , Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
