WARNING : ENDOMETRIAL CANCER , CARDIOVASCULAR DISORDERS , AND PROBABLE DEMENTIA • • Women taking DUAVEE should not take additional estrogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • There is an increased risk of endometrial cancer in a woman with a uterus who uses unopposed estrogens .
DUAVEE has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia , which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer .
Adequate diagnostic measures , including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated , should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Estrogen therapy should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease or dementia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] • • The Women ' s Health Initiative ( WHI ) estrogen - alone substudy reported increased risks of stroke and deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) in postmenopausal women ( 50 to 79 years of age ) during 7 . 1 years of treatment with daily oral conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone , relative to placebo [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • The WHI Memory Study ( WHIMS ) estrogen - alone ancillary study of WHI reported an increased risk of probable dementia in postmenopausal women 65 years of age and older during 5 . 2 years of treatment with daily conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone , relative to placebo .
It is unknown whether this finding applies to younger postmenopausal women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Only daily oral 0 . 625 mg CE was studied in the estrogen - alone substudy of the WHI .
Therefore , the relevance of the WHI findings regarding adverse cardiovascular events and dementia to lower CE doses , other routes of administration , or other estrogen - alone products is not known .
Without such data , it is not possible to definitively exclude these risks or determine the extent of these risks for other products .
Discuss with your patient the benefits and risks of estrogen - alone therapy , taking into account her individual risk profile .
Estrogens should be prescribed at the lowest effective doses and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman .
WARNING : ENDOMETRIAL CANCER , CARDIOVASCULAR DISORDERS , AND PROBABLE DEMENTIA See full prescribing information for complete Boxed Warning .
• • Women taking DUAVEE should not take additional estrogens ( 5 . 1 ) • • There is an increased risk of endometrial cancer in a woman with a uterus who uses unopposed estrogens ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) • • Estrogen therapy should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease or dementia ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) • • The Women ' s Health Initiative ( WHI ) estrogen - alone substudy reported increased risks of stroke and deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) ( 5 . 2 ) • • The WHI Memory Study ( WHIMS ) estrogen - alone ancillary study of WHI reported an increased risk of probable dementia in postmenopausal women 65 years of age and older ( 5 . 4 ) Boxed Warning 12 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DUAVEE is indicated in women with a uterus for : DUAVEE is a combination of conjugated estrogens with an estrogen agonist / antagonist indicated for treatment of the following conditions in women with a uterus : • • Treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause ( 1 . 1 ) • • Prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 1 . 2 ) Limitation of Use : DUAVEE should be used for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Moderate to Severe Vasomotor Symptoms Associated with Menopause 1 . 2 Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis 1 . 3 Important Limitations of Use • • Use DUAVEE for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman .
Postmenopausal women should be re - evaluated periodically as clinically appropriate to determine if treatment is still necessary .
• • When prescribing solely for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis , therapy should only be considered for women at significant risk of osteoporosis and non - estrogen medication should be carefully considered .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Take one tablet orally once daily ( 2 ) 2 . 1 Treatment of Moderate to Severe Vasomotor Symptoms Associated with Menopause The recommended dosage is one DUAVEE tablet daily .
2 . 2 Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis The recommended dosage is one DUAVEE tablet daily .
2 . 3 General Dosing Information Take DUAVEE once daily , without regard to meals .
Tablets should be swallowed whole .
2 . 4 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation Women taking DUAVEE for prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis should add supplemental calcium and / or vitamin D to their diet if daily intake is inadequate .
2 . 5 Administration Instructions for Missed Doses If a dose of DUAVEE is missed , instruct patients to take it as soon as remembered unless it is almost time for the next scheduled dose .
They should not take two doses at the same time .
2 . 6 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of DUAVEE have not been evaluated in patients with renal impairment .
Use in patients with renal impairment is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 7 Use in the Elderly DUAVEE has not been studied in women over 75 years of age .
Use in women over 75 years of age is not recommended .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS DUAVEE ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) tablets , 0 . 45 mg / 20 mg are oval , biconvex , pink tablets , branded with " 0 . 45 / 20 " in black ink on one side .
Tablet containing conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg and bazedoxifene 20 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DUAVEE is contraindicated in women with any of the following conditions : • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding • • Known , suspected , or past history of breast cancer • • Known or suspected estrogen - dependent neoplasia • • Active deep venous thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , or history of these conditions • • Active arterial thromboembolic disease ( for example , stroke , myocardial infarction ) or history of these conditions • • Hypersensitivity ( for example , anaphylaxis , angioedema ) to estrogens , bazedoxifene , or any ingredients • • Known hepatic impairment or disease • • Known protein C , protein S , or antithrombin deficiency or other known thrombophilic disorders • • Pregnancy , as DUAVEE may cause fetal harm [ see pregnancy ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • • Known , suspected , or past history of breast cancer ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • • Known or suspected estrogen - dependent neoplasia ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • • Active or past history of venous thromboembolism ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • • Active or past history of arterial thromboembolism ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity ( angioedema , anaphylaxis ) to estrogens , bazedoxifene , or any ingredients ( 4 ) • • Known hepatic impairment or disease ( 4 , 5 . 9 , 8 . 7 , 12 . 3 ) • • Known protein C , protein S , or antithrombin deficiency or other known thrombophilic disorders ( 4 ) • • Pregnancy ( 1 , 4 , 8 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Women taking DUAVEE should not take progestins , additional estrogens or additional estrogen agonist / antagonists ( 5 . 1 ) • • Cardiovascular disorders , including venous thromboembolism , pulmonary embolism , stroke , and retinal vascular thrombosis ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) • • Malignant neoplasms , including endometrial cancer , breast cancer , and ovarian cancer ( 5 . 3 ) • • Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease ( 5 . 5 ) • • Discontinue estrogen if loss of vision , severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs ( 5 . 6 , 5 . 8 , 5 . 9 ) • • Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy ( 5 . 10 , 5 . 17 ) 5 . 1 Drugs Containing Progestins , Estrogens or Estrogen Agonist / Antagonists DUAVEE contains conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene , an estrogen agonist / antagonist .
Women taking DUAVEE should not take progestins , additional estrogens or additional estrogen agonist / antagonists .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Disorders Estrogen agonist / antagonists ( including bazedoxifene , a component of DUAVEE ) and estrogens individually are known to increase the risk of VTE .
An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen - alone therapy .
Should any of these occur or be suspected , DUAVEE should be discontinued immediately .
Risk factors for arterial vascular disease ( for example , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , tobacco use , hypercholesterolemia , and obesity ) and / or VTE ( for example , personal history or family history of VTE , obesity , and systemic lupus erythematosus ) should be managed appropriately .
Stroke In the WHI estrogen - alone substudy , a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily conjugated estrogens ( CE ) ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo ( 45 versus 33 per 10 , 000 women - years ) .
The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone versus those receiving placebo ( 18 versus 21 per 10 , 000 women - years ) .
Should a stroke occur or be suspected , DUAVEE should be discontinued immediately [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen - alone substudy , no overall effect on coronary heart disease ( CHD ) events ( defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction , silent myocardial infarction , or CHD death ) was reported in women receiving estrogen - alone compared to placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non - significant reduction in CHD events ( CE [ 0 . 625 mg ] - alone compared to placebo ) in women with less than 10 years since menopause ( 8 versus 16 per 10 , 000 women - years ) .
Venous Thromboembolism ( VTE ) In the WHI estrogen - alone substudy , the risk of VTE [ DVT and pulmonary embolism ( PE ) ] was increased for women receiving daily conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone compared to placebo ( 30 versus 22 per 10 , 000 women - years ) , although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance ( 23 versus 15 per 10 , 000 women - years ) .
The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
If feasible , DUAVEE should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism , or during periods of prolonged immobilization .
Because immobilization increases the risk for venous thromboembolic events independent of therapy , DUAVEE should be discontinued prior to and during prolonged immobilization ( e . g . , post - surgical recovery , prolonged bed rest ) and DUAVEE therapy should be resumed only after the patient is fully ambulatory .
In addition , women taking DUAVEE should be advised to move about periodically during travel involving prolonged immobilization .
5 . 3 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in women with a uterus .
The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non - users , and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose .
Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year .
The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use , with increased risks of 15 - to 24 - fold for 5 to 10 years or more of treatment .
This risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued .
DUAVEE contains an estrogen agonist / antagonist .
This component reduces the risk of endometrial hyperplasia that can occur with the conjugated estrogens component .
Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer .
Women taking DUAVEE should not take additional estrogens as this may increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia .
Clinical surveillance of all women taking DUAVEE is important .
Adequate diagnostic measures , including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated , should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding .
Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical study providing information about breast cancer in estrogen - alone users is the WHI substudy of daily conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone .
In the WHI estrogen - alone substudy , after an average follow - up of 7 . 1 years , daily conjugated estrogen ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer ( relative risk [ RR ] 0 . 80 ) .
The use of estrogen - alone has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation .
The effect of treatment with DUAVEE on the risk of breast cancer is unknown .
All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self - examinations .
In addition , mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age , risk factors , and prior mammogram results .
Ovarian Cancer A meta - analysis of 17 prospective and 35 retrospective epidemiology studies found that women who used hormonal therapy for menopausal symptoms had an increased risk for ovarian cancer .
The primary analysis , using case - control comparisons , included 12 , 110 cancer cases from the 17 prospective studies .
The relative risks associated with current use of hormonal therapy was 1 . 41 ( 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] 1 . 32 to 1 . 50 ) ; there was no difference in the risk estimates by duration of the exposure ( less than 5 years [ median of 3 years ] vs . greater than 5 years [ median of 10 years ] of use before the cancer diagnosis ) .
The relative risk associated with combined current and recent use ( discontinued use within 5 years before cancer diagnosis ) was 1 . 37 ( 95 % CI 1 . 27 – 1 . 48 ) , and the elevated risk was significant for both estrogen - alone and estrogen plus progestin products .
The exact duration of hormone therapy use associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer , however , is unknown .
The effect of treatment with DUAVEE on the risk of ovarian cancer is unknown .
5 . 4 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen - alone ancillary study of WHI , a population of 2 , 947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone or placebo .
After an average follow - up of 5 . 2 years , 28 women in the estrogen - alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia .
The relative risk of probable dementia for CE - alone versus placebo was 1 . 49 ( 95 percent CI , 0 . 83 – 2 . 66 ) .
The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE - alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10 , 000 women - years [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease A 2 - to 4 - fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported .
5 . 6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens .
Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision , or a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia , or migraine .
If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions , DUAVEE should be permanently discontinued .
5 . 7 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports in women receiving estrogens , substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens .
In a large , randomized , placebo - controlled clinical study , a generalized effect of estrogens on blood pressure was not seen .
5 . 8 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre - existing hypertriglyceridemia , treatment with estrogens may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis .
Consider discontinuation of DUAVEE if pancreatitis occurs .
5 . 9 Hepatic Impairment and Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice DUAVEE has not been studied in women with impaired liver function or past history of cholestatic jaundice .
Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function .
On average , women with hepatic impairment treated with bazedoxifene alone showed a 4 . 3 - fold increase in overall exposures compared with controls [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy , caution should be exercised ; and in the case of recurrence , DUAVEE should be discontinued .
Use of DUAVEE in patients with hepatic impairment is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 10 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid - binding globulin ( TBG ) levels .
Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone , thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range .
Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy .
These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range .
5 . 11 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention .
Because of this , patients who have conditions that might be influenced by this factor , such as cardiac dysfunction or renal impairment , warrant careful observation when estrogens are prescribed .
Use of DUAVEE in patients with renal impairment is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 12 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen - induced hypocalcemia may occur .
5 . 13 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema .
5 . 14 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogens may cause an exacerbation of asthma , diabetes mellitus , epilepsy , migraine or porphyria , systemic lupus erythematosus , and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions .
5 . 15 Premenopausal Women There is no indication for premenopausal use of DUAVEE .
The efficacy and safety of DUAVEE in premenopausal women have not been established , and its use is not recommended .
Additionally , there is concern regarding inadvertent drug exposure in pregnancy in women of reproductive potential who become pregnant , due to risk of fetal harm [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 16 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms .
5 . 17 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time , partial thromboplastin time , and platelet aggregation time ; increased platelet count ; increased factors II , VII antigen , VIII antigen , VIII coagulant activity , IX , X , XII , VII - X complex , II - VII - X complex , and beta - thromboglobulin ; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III , decreased antithrombin III activity ; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity ; increased plasminogen antigen and activity .
Increased thyroid - binding globulin ( TBG ) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone , as measured by protein - bound iodine ( PBI ) , T4 levels ( by column or by radioimmunoassay ) , or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay .
T3 resin uptake is decreased , reflecting the elevated TBG .
Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered .
Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone .
Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum , for example , corticosteroid binding globulin ( CBG ) , sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) , leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids , respectively .
Free hormone concentrations , such as testosterone and estradiol , may be decreased .
Other plasma proteins may be increased ( angiotensinogen / renin substrate , alpha - 1 - antitrypsin , ceruloplasmin ) .
Increased plasma high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations , reduced low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol concentrations , increased triglyceride levels .
Impaired glucose tolerance .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • • Cardiovascular Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Malignant Neoplasms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Gallbladder Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hypertriglyceridemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] In four prospective , randomized , placebo - controlled trials the common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) were muscle spasms , nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , abdominal pain upper , oropharyngeal pain , dizziness , and neck pain ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pfizer Inc . at 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene was evaluated in four Phase 3 clinical trials ranging from 12 weeks to 24 months in duration and enrolling 6 , 210 postmenopausal women age 40 to 75 years ( mean age 55 years ) .
A total of 1 , 224 patients were treated with DUAVEE and 1 , 069 patients received placebo .
Women enrolled in Studies 1 and 2 received calcium ( 600 – 1200 mg ) and vitamin D ( 200 – 400 IU ) daily , while women in Studies 3 and 4 received no calcium and vitamin D supplementation as part of the protocol .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 0 % in the DUAVEE group and 0 . 2 % in the placebo group .
The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 3 . 5 % in the DUAVEE group and 4 . 8 % in the placebo group .
The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was 7 . 5 % in the DUAVEE group and 10 . 0 % in the placebo group .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were hot flush , abdominal pain upper , and nausea .
The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) more frequently reported in women treated with DUAVEE than placebo are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions ( Incidence ≥ 5 % ) More Common in the DUAVEE Treatment Group in Placebo - controlled Trials DUAVEE ( N = 1224 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 1069 ) n ( % ) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 100 ( 8 ) 58 ( 5 ) Diarrhea 96 ( 8 ) 57 ( 5 ) Dyspepsia 84 ( 7 ) 59 ( 6 ) Abdominal pain upper 81 ( 7 ) 58 ( 5 ) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscle spasms 110 ( 9 ) 63 ( 6 ) Neck pain 62 ( 5 ) 46 ( 4 ) Nervous system disorders Dizziness 65 ( 5 ) 37 ( 3 ) Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 80 ( 7 ) 61 ( 6 ) Venous thromboembolism : In the clinical studies with DUAVEE , the reporting rates for venous thromboembolism ( deep venous thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and retinal vein thrombosis ) were low in all treatment groups .
Adverse reactions of venous thromboembolism were reported in 0 . 0 % of patients treated with DUAVEE and 0 . 1 % of patients treated with placebo .
Due to the low rate of events in both groups , it is not possible to conclude that the risk of venous thromboembolism with DUAVEE is different from that seen with other estrogen therapies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Concomitant administration of itraconazole , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , with DUAVEE , resulted in increases in bazedoxifene exposure ( 40 % ) and , to a lesser extent , conjugated estrogens exposure ( 9 % for baseline - adjusted total estrone , 5 % for total equilin ) , compared to DUAVEE alone [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Inducers of CYP3A4 , such as St . John ' s Wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) preparations , phenobarbital , carbamazepine , and rifampin , may reduce plasma concentrations of some estrogens , possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and / or changes in the uterine bleeding profile .
Bazedoxifene does not induce or inhibit the activities of major CYP isoenzymes .
In vitro data suggest that bazedoxifene is unlikely to interact with co - administered drugs via CYP - mediated metabolism .
7 . 2 Uridine Diphosphate Glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) Bazedoxifene undergoes metabolism by UGT enzymes in the intestinal tract and liver .
The metabolism of bazedoxifene may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce UGTs , such as rifampin , phenobarbital , carbamazepine , and phenytoin .
A reduction in bazedoxifene exposure may be associated with an increase risk of endometrial hyperplasia .
Adequate diagnostic measures , including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated , should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding .
7 . 3 Atorvastatin Concomitant administration of bazedoxifene ( 40 mg daily ) and atorvastatin ( 20 mg , single - dose ) to healthy postmenopausal women did not affect the pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene , atorvastatin or its active metabolites .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Geriatric Use : DUAVEE was not studied in women aged 75 or older ( 8 . 5 , 12 . 3 ) ; use in this population is not recommended ( 2 . 7 , 8 . 5 ) • • An increased risk of probable dementia in women over 65 years of age was reported in the Women ' s Health Initiative Memory ancillary studies of the Women ' s Health Initiative ( 5 . 4 , 8 . 5 , 14 . 6 ) • • Renal Impairment : DUAVEE was not studied in women with renal impairment ; use in this population is not recommended ( 2 . 6 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary DUAVEE is contraindicated for use in pregnant women and is not indicated for use in females of reproductive potential [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
Conjugated Estrogens ( CE ) There are no data with the use of conjugated estrogens in pregnant women ; however , epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital and non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to combined hormonal contraceptives before conception or during early pregnancy .
Bazedoxifene There are no available data on bazedoxifene use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal studies have shown that oral bazedoxifene administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats or rabbits at 0 . 3 and 2 times , respectively , the exposure at the maximum recommended dose , can cause fetal harm [ see Data ] .
Based on mechanism of action , bazedoxifene may block the important functions that estrogen has during all stages of pregnancy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Data Animal data Bazedoxifene Administration of bazedoxifene to rats at maternally toxic dosages ≥ 1 mg / kg / day ( ≥ 0 . 3 times the human area under the curve ( AUC ) at the 20 mg dose ) resulted in reduced numbers of live fetuses and / or reductions in fetal body weights .
No fetal developmental anomalies were observed .
In studies conducted with pregnant rabbits treated with bazedoxifene , abortion and an increased incidence of heart ( ventricular septal defect ) and skeletal system ( ossification delays , misshapen or misaligned bones , primarily of the spine and skull ) anomalies in the fetuses were present at maternally toxic dosages of ≥ 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( ≥ 2 times the human AUC at the 20 mg dose ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary DUAVEE is not indicated for use in females of reproductive potential [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
Conjugated Estrogens Estrogens are present in human milk and can reduce milk production in breast - feeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breast - feeding is well - established .
Bazedoxifene There are no data on the presence of bazedoxifene in either human or animal breast milk , the effect on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Based on mechanism of action , bazedoxifene may block the important functions that estrogen has in mammary tissue during lactation [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Bazedoxifene Based on animal data , bazedoxifene administration may adversely affect female fertility .
However , clinical fertility studies with bazedoxifene have not been conducted [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use DUAVEE is not indicated for use in children [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use DUAVEE is not recommended for use in women greater than 75 years of age [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 3 ) ] .
Of the total number of women in phase 3 clinical studies who received DUAVEE , 4 . 60 % ( n = 224 ) were 65 years and over .
DUAVEE was not studied in women aged 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between women 65 – 74 years of age and younger women , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger women , but greater sensitivity of some older women cannot be ruled out .
An increased risk of probable dementia in women over 65 years of age was reported in the Women ' s Health Initiative Memory ancillary studies of the Women ' s Health Initiative using daily conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment DUAVEE is not recommended for use in patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics , safety , and efficacy of DUAVEE have not been evaluated in women with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment DUAVEE is contraindicated in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics , safety , and efficacy of DUAVEE have not been evaluated in women with hepatic impairment .
In a pharmacokinetics study of bazedoxifene 20 mg alone , the Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 67 % and 143 % , respectively , in women with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class A ) , compared to healthy women .
The Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 32 % and 109 % , respectively , in women with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class B ) .
The Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 20 % and 268 % , respectively , in women with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class C ) .
No pharmacokinetic studies with conjugated estrogens were conducted in women with hepatic impairment .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index ( BMI ) Following DUAVEE administration , the systemic exposures of conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene were lower in obese subjects , compared to non - obese subjects [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
A single dose of DUAVEE ( conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg ) was administered to 12 obese BMI ≥ 30 [ mean ( SD ) = 32 . 7 ( 2 . 7 ) kg / m2 ] and 12 non - obese BMI < 30 [ mean ( SD ) 25 . 3 ( 2 . 6 ) kg / m2 ] postmenopausal women .
In obese subjects , systemic exposures of total estrone , total equilin , and bazedoxifene were 2 % , 32 % , and 13 % lower , respectively , compared to non - obese subjects .
A greater reduction in bazedoxifene exposure compared to conjugated estrogens may be associated with decreased protection from endometrial hyperplasia .
Monitor and evaluate women with postmenopausal or unexplained genital bleeding for possible endometrial hyperplasia or malignancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , there is no specific antidote , and the treatment should be symptomatic .
Symptoms of overdosage of estrogen - containing products in adults and children may include nausea , vomiting , breast tenderness , dizziness , abdominal pain , drowsiness / fatigue ; withdrawal bleeding may occur .
11 DESCRIPTION DUAVEE ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) , contains conjugated estrogens with bazedoxifene , an estrogen agonist / antagonist .
Conjugated estrogens are purified from pregnant mares ' urine and consist of the sodium salts of water - soluble estrogen sulfates blended to represent the average composition of material derived from pregnant mares ' urine .
Conjugated estrogens are a mixture of sodium estrone sulfate and sodium equilin sulfate , and also contain as concomitant components , sodium sulfate conjugates , 17α - dihydroequilin , 17α - estradiol , and 17β - dihydroequilin .
Bazedoxifene is supplied as the acetate salt ( bazedoxifene acetate ) and has the chemical name 1 H - Indol - 5 - ol , 1 - [ [ 4 - [ 2 - ( hexahydro - 1 H - azepin - 1 - yl ) ethoxy ] phenyl ] methyl ] - 2 - ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) - 3 - methyl - , monoacetate .
The empirical formula is C30H34N2O3 ∙ C2H4O2 , and the molecular weight is 530 . 65 .
Bazedoxifene acetate is a white to tan powder .
The aqueous solubility of bazedoxifene is pH - dependent .
Solubility is higher at lower pH . The solubility of bazedoxifene acetate in unbuffered sterile water was measured to be 923 microgramsA / mL at pH 5 . 4 .
The following represents the chemical structure of bazedoxifene acetate : [ MULTIMEDIA ] DUAVEE is available for oral administration as tablets containing 0 . 45 mg of conjugated estrogens with 20 mg of bazedoxifene ( equivalent to 22 . 6 mg of bazedoxifene acetate ) .
Each tablet of DUAVEE contains the following inactive ingredients : calcium phosphate tribasic , hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , powdered cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , sucrose , ascorbic acid , sucrose palmitic acid ester , hydroxyethylcellulose , titanium dioxide , red iron oxide , yellow iron oxide , black iron oxide , povidone , polydextrose , maltitol , poloxamer 188 , propylene glycol , and isopropyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action DUAVEE pairs conjugated estrogens with bazedoxifene .
Conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene function by binding to and activating estrogen receptors ( ER ) α and β , which vary in proportion from tissue to tissue .
Conjugated estrogens are composed of multiple estrogens and are agonists of ER - α and β .
Bazedoxifene is an estrogen agonist / antagonist that acts as an agonist in some estrogen - sensitive tissues and an antagonist in others ( e . g . , uterus ) .
The pairing of conjugated estrogens with bazedoxifene produces a composite effect that is specific to each target tissue .
The bazedoxifene component reduces the risk of endometrial hyperplasia that can occur with the conjugated estrogens component .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Generally , a serum estrogen concentration does not predict an individual woman ’ s therapeutic response to DUAVEE nor her risk for adverse outcomes .
Likewise , exposure comparisons across different estrogen products to infer efficacy or safety for the individual woman may not be valid .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following administration of multiple doses of conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg to healthy women who were naturally postmenopausal or who had undergone bilateral oophorectomy , the mean steady state pharmacokinetic parameters at Day 10 for conjugated estrogens ( baseline adjusted for total estrone ) and bazedoxifene are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Mean ± SD Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( n = 24 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) AUCss ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) Baseline - Adjusted Total Estrone 2 . 6 ± 0 . 8 6 . 5 ± 1 . 6 35 ± 12 Bazedoxifene 6 . 9 ± 3 . 9 2 . 5 ± 2 . 1 71 ± 34 Results from monotherapy studies with conjugated estrogens or bazedoxifene components of DUAVEE , are noted below : Conjugated estrogens are soluble in water and are well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after release from the drug formulation .
Bazedoxifene exhibits a linear increase in plasma concentrations for single doses from 0 . 5 mg up to 120 mg and multiple daily doses from 1 mg to 80 mg .
The absolute bioavailability of bazedoxifene is approximately 6 % .
Food Effect In a single - dose , crossover study in 23 postmenopausal women given conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg with a high fat / high calorie meal , food increased AUC0 – inf of bazedoxifene by 25 % .
The Cmax of bazedoxifene was unchanged .
Distribution The distribution of conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene after administration of DUAVEE has not been studied .
Results from monotherapy studies with conjugated estrogens or bazedoxifene , components of DUAVEE , are noted below : The distribution of exogenous estrogens is similar to that of endogenous estrogens .
Estrogens are widely distributed in the body and are generally found in higher concentrations in the sex hormone target organs .
Estrogens circulate in the blood largely bound to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and albumin .
Following intravenous ( IV ) administration of a 3 mg dose of bazedoxifene , the volume of distribution is 14 . 7 ± 3 . 9 L / kg .
Bazedoxifene is highly bound ( 98 % – 99 % ) to plasma proteins in vitro , but does not bind to SHBG .
Metabolism The metabolic disposition of conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene , after administration of DUAVEE , has not been studied .
Results from monotherapy studies with conjugated estrogens or bazedoxifene , components of DUAVEE , are noted below : Exogenous estrogens are metabolized in the same manner as endogenous estrogens .
Circulating estrogens exist in a dynamic equilibrium of metabolic interconversions .
17 - β estradiol is converted reversibly to estrone , and both can be converted to estriol , which is the major urinary metabolite .
In postmenopausal women , a significant proportion of the circulating estrogens exists as sulfate conjugates , especially estrone sulfate , which serves as a circulating reservoir for the formation of more active estrogens .
The metabolic disposition of bazedoxifene has been determined following oral administration of 20 mg of radiolabeled bazedoxifene .
Bazedoxifene is extensively metabolized in women .
Glucuronidation is the major metabolic pathway .
Little or no cytochrome P450 - mediated metabolism is evident .
Bazedoxifene - 5 - glucuronide is the major circulating metabolite .
The concentrations of this glucuronide are approximately 10 - fold higher than those of unchanged drug in plasma .
Excretion After administration of a single dose of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene , baseline - adjusted total estrone ( representing conjugated estrogens ) is eliminated with a half - life of approximately 17 hours .
Bazedoxifene is eliminated with a half - life of approximately 30 hours .
Steady - state concentrations are achieved by the second week of once - daily administration .
Results from monotherapy studies with conjugated estrogens or bazedoxifene , components of DUAVEE , are noted below : The conjugated estrogens components , 17β - estradiol , estrone , and estriol are excreted in the urine , along with glucuronide and sulfate conjugates .
The clearance of bazedoxifene is 0 . 4 ± 0 . 1 L / h / kg based on intravenous administration .
The major route of excretion after oral administration of 20 mg of radiolabeled bazedoxifene is via biliary excretion , followed by elimination in the feces ( ~ 85 % ) , with < 1 % of the radioactive dose eliminated in the urine .
Based on these results , it is expected that bazedoxifene undergoes entero - hepatic recycling from the gut back to the systemic circulation , therefore , some drugs may potentially interfere with bazedoxifene recycling process in the gut by various mechanisms resulting in a decrease in its systemic exposure .
Use in Specific Populations Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene tablets have not been evaluated in a pediatric population [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Geriatric The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene tablets have not been evaluated [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
No pharmacokinetic studies with conjugated estrogens were conducted in specific populations , including women over 75 years of age .
The pharmacokinetics of a 20 mg single - dose of bazedoxifene , were evaluated in postmenopausal women .
On average , compared to women 51 to 64 years of age ( n = 8 ) , women 65 to 74 years of age ( n = 8 ) showed a 1 . 5 - fold increase in AUC , and women ≥ 75 years of age ( n = 8 ) showed a 2 . 6 - fold increase in AUC .
Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene tablets have not been evaluated in women with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene tablets have not been evaluated in women with hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
No pharmacokinetic studies with conjugated estrogens were conducted in specific populations , including women with hepatic impairment .
A single dose of bazedoxifene 20 mg was given to fasted , healthy ( N = 18 ) and hepatically impaired postmenopausal women .
In six mild hepatic impairment patients ( Child Pugh Class A ) , Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 67 % and 143 % , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
In six moderate hepatic impairment patients ( Child Pugh Class B ) , Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 32 % and 109 % , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
In six severe hepatic impairment patients ( Child Pugh Class C ) , Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene increased 20 % and 268 % , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
Half - life was prolonged from 32 to 50 hrs in patients with severe hepatic impairment , compared to healthy subjects .
Body Mass Index In a clinical study , a single dose of DUAVEE ( conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg ) was administered to 12 obese [ mean ( SD ) BMI = 32 . 7 ( 2 . 7 ) kg / m2 ] and 12 non - obese [ mean ( SD ) BMI = 25 . 3 ( 2 . 6 ) kg / m2 ] postmenopausal women .
In obese subjects , systemic exposure ( AUC0 – 72 ) of total estrone was 2 % lower and systemic exposures ( AUC0 – inf ) of total equilin and bazedoxifene were 32 % and 13 % lower , respectively , compared to non - obese subjects .
Drug Interactions Effect of Co - Administered Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Conjugated Estrogens / Bazedoxifene In a drug - drug interaction study , itraconazole 200 mg , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , was administered with breakfast to 24 postmenopausal women for 4 days , followed by a fifth dose of itraconazole 200 mg with breakfast and DUAVEE on Day 5 ( 3 hours after itraconazole ) .
Itraconazole 200 mg was continued for 2 additional days after the co - administration of itraconazole 200 mg and DUAVEE .
Following co - administration of DUAVEE and itraconazole , baseline - adjusted total estrone Cmax and AUC0 – 72 increased 9 % and 9 % , respectively , total equilin Cmax and AUC0 – 72 increased 11 % and 5 % , respectively , and bazedoxifene Cmax and AUC0 – inf increased 11 % and 40 % , respectively , compared to subjects treated with DUAVEE alone .
Effect of Co - Administered Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Bazedoxifene Conjugated Estrogens Conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg were administered alone for 6 consecutive days prior to the co - administration of a single dose of 20 mg bazedoxifene and conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg in thirty postmenopausal women .
Conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg were continued for 2 additional days after the co - administration of bazedoxifene and conjugated estrogens .
The Cmax of bazedoxifene increased by 3 % and AUC of bazedoxifene decreased by 6 % .
Ibuprofen A single dose of ibuprofen 600 mg was given with a bazedoxifene 20 mg capsule in twelve postmenopausal women after an overnight fast .
Co - administration of ibuprofen and bazedoxifene increased Cmax and AUC of bazedoxifene by 18 % and 7 % , respectively .
Atorvastatin Atorvastatin 20 mg was given once with bazedoxifene 40 mg in thirty postmenopausal women .
Co - administration of atorvastatin and bazedoxifene decreased Cmax of bazedoxifene by 3 % and increased AUC of bazedoxifene by 6 % .
Azithromycin Azithromycin 500 mg was given once daily for 8 consecutive days in thirty postmenopausal women .
Azithromycin 500 mg and a bazedoxifene 40 mg tablet were co - administered on Day 9 .
Azithromycin 250 mg administration once daily continued on Days 10 to 13 .
Co - administration of azithromycin and bazedoxifene increased Cmax of bazedoxifene by 6 % and decreased AUC of bazedoxifene by 15 % .
Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide A single dose of 460 mg aluminum hydroxide and 400 mg magnesium hydroxide was given with a bazedoxifene 40 mg tablet in thirty postmenopausal women after an overnight fast .
Co - administration of aluminum / magnesium hydroxide and bazedoxifene decreased Cmax of bazedoxifene by 8 % and increased AUC of bazedoxifene by 7 % .
Effect of Bazedoxifene on the Pharmacokinetics of Co - Administered Drugs Conjugated Estrogens Bazedoxifene 20 mg was administered alone for 8 consecutive days prior to co - administration of a single dose of conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg and bazedoxifene 20 mg in twenty - six postmenopausal women .
Bazedoxifene 20 mg was continued for 2 additional days after co - administration of bazedoxifene and conjugated estrogens .
The Cmax and AUC of unconjugated estrone increased by 11 % and 3 % , respectively .
The Cmax and AUC of unconjugated equilin increased by 17 % and 14 % , respectively .
Ibuprofen A single dose of bazedoxifene 20 mg capsule was given with a single dose of ibuprofen 600 mg in twelve fasted , postmenopausal women .
Co - administration of bazedoxifene and ibuprofen increased the Cmax of ibuprofen by 6 % .
The AUC of ibuprofen was unchanged .
Atorvastatin Bazedoxifene 40 mg was given for 8 consecutive days prior to co - administration of bazedoxifene 40 mg and atorvastatin 20 mg .
Co - administration of bazedoxifene and atorvastatin decreased Cmax of atorvastatin by 14 % .
The AUC of atorvastatin was unchanged .
The Cmax and AUC of 2 - OH atorvastatin were decreased by 18 % and 8 % , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies with conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene have not been conducted .
Long - term continuous administration of natural and synthetic estrogens in certain animal species increases the frequency of carcinomas of the breast , uterus , cervix , vagina , testis , and liver .
In 6 - month oral gavage carcinogenicity studies of bazedoxifene in transgenic Tg . RasH2 mice , there was a drug - related increased incidence of benign , ovarian granulosa - cell tumors in female mice given 150 or 500 mg / kg / day .
In a two - year dietary carcinogenicity study of bazedoxifene in rats ( administered at 0 . 003 % , 0 . 01 % , 0 . 03 % , or 0 . 1 % ) a drug - related marked increased incidence of benign , ovarian granulosa - cell tumors was observed in female rats at concentrations of 0 . 03 % and 0 . 1 % .
Systemic exposure ( AUC ) of bazedoxifene in these groups was 3 and 8 times that observed in postmenopausal women administered 20 mg / day .
In male rats , drug - related renal tumors ( adenomas and carcinomas ) , in the presence of renal toxicity , were observed at all doses tested , which corresponded to exposure ratios of 0 . 06 to 5 times the clinical AUC at a dose of 20 mg .
Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies with conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene have not been conducted .
Bazedoxifene was not genotoxic or mutagenic in a battery of tests , including in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , in vitro mammalian cell forward mutation assay at the thymidine kinase ( TK + / - ) locus in L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells , in vitro chromosome aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , and in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Impairment of fertility studies with conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene have not been conducted .
Female rats were administered daily dosages of 0 . 3 to 30 mg / kg bazedoxifene ( 0 . 03 to 10 times human AUC at the 20 mg dose ) prior to and during mating with untreated males .
Estrous cycles and fertility were adversely affected in all bazedoxifene - treated female groups .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In a 12 - month study in ovariectomized rats , co - administration of conjugated estrogens ( 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ) and bazedoxifene ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 , or 1 mg / kg / day ) prevented the loss of bone mass at the spine , femur , and tibia with concomitant maintenance of biomechanical strength parameters .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Moderate to Severe Vasomotor Symptoms Associated with Menopause in Women with a Uterus The safety and efficacy of DUAVEE as a treatment for moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause was established in a 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( Study 3 ) .
Study 3 enrolled a total of 318 women , age 42 – 64 ( mean age of 53 years ) , who had at least 7 moderate to severe hot flushes per day or at least 50 per week at baseline .
The mean number of years since menopause was 4 . 5 years with all women undergoing natural menopause .
A total of 127 women were assigned to DUAVEE and 63 women were assigned to placebo .
In Study 3 , DUAVEE significantly reduced the number and severity of moderate to severe hot flushes , as measured by the daily severity score , compared with placebo at Weeks 4 and 12 .
The change from baseline in the number and severity of moderate to severe hot flushes observed and the difference from placebo in Study 3 are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Adjusted Mean Change from Baseline in the Average Daily Frequency and Severity of Hot Flushes ( Study 3 ) Frequency Severity DUAVEE Placebo DUAVEE Placebo N 122 63 122 63 Baseline 10 . 3 10 . 5 2 . 3 2 . 3 Week 4 Mean Change [ 1 ] - 5 . 9 - 2 . 8 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 1 Treatment Difference [ 2 ] - 3 . 1 ( - 4 . 4 , - 1 . 7 ) [ 3 ] -- - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 3 ) null -- Week 12 Mean Change null - 7 . 6 - 4 . 9 - 0 . 9 - 0 . 3 Treatment Difference null - 2 . 7 ( - 3 . 8 , - 1 . 6 ) null -- - 0 . 6 ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 4 ) null -- [ 1 ] Change from baseline using ANCOVA model [ 2 ] Based on raw data analysis using ANCOVA model : Difference = Treatment + Baseline + Site [ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 14 . 2 Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis in Women with a Uterus The safety and efficacy of DUAVEE for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was demonstrated in Study 1 and Study 2 .
Study 1 was a 24 - month , double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled study evaluating the safety and efficacy of multiple combinations of conjugated estrogen / bazedoxifene ( including conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg ) compared to placebo .
The primary endpoint of the study was the incidence of endometrial hyperplasia at Year 1 .
Bone mineral density change at the lumbar spine at Year 2 was the key secondary endpoint , assessed in two subsets of patients ( Substudy I and Substudy II ) .
Patients enrolled into Substudy I had to be more than 5 years postmenopausal , have a lumbar spine or total hip T - score of - 1 to - 2 . 5 , and have at least one additional risk factor for osteoporosis ( e . g . , Caucasian race , family history of osteoporosis , early menopause , thin / small frame , inactive lifestyle , tobacco abuse ) .
Those enrolled into Substudy II had to be 1 – 5 years postmenopausal with at least one additional risk factor for osteoporosis .
A total of 3 , 397 women age 40 – 75 ( mean age of 56 years ) were enrolled in the overall study .
Substudy I enrolled a total of 1 , 454 women ( 182 women receiving DUAVEE ) with mean baseline T - scores of - 1 . 43 and - 1 . 52 in the DUAVEE and placebo groups , respectively .
Substudy II enrolled a total of 861 women ( with 111 women receiving DUAVEE ) with mean baseline T - scores of - 0 . 81 and - 0 . 94 in the DUAVEE and placebo groups , respectively .
Women also took calcium ( 600 – 1200 mg ) and vitamin D ( 200 – 400 IU ) daily .
In these substudies , treatment with DUAVEE significantly increased lumbar spine bone mineral density ( BMD ) at 24 months compared to placebo in both groups of postmenopausal women ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Lumbar Spine Bone Mineral Density Results at 24 Months ( Study 1 ) DUAVEE Placebo ** Adjusted mean changes , confidence intervals , and p - values based on an ANCOVA model with treatment and region ( U . S . or non - U . S . ) as factors and baseline BMD value and years since menopause as covariates using the Modified Intention to Treat population with Last Observation Carried Forward .
Study 1 excludes those subjects with missing source documentation .
Between 1 and 5 Years Postmenopausal N 95 95 % Mean Change 1 . 72 - 1 . 90 Difference from Placebo ( 95 % C . I . ) 3 . 62 ( 2 . 64 , 4 . 60 ) [ 1 ] More Than 5 Years Postmenopausal N 155 151 % Mean Change 1 . 64 - 1 . 47 Difference from Placebo ( 95 % C . I . ) 3 . 11 ( 2 . 29 , 3 . 93 ) null – [ 1 ] p - value < 0 . 001 In Study 1 , treatment with DUAVEE also significantly increased total hip BMD .
The treatment difference ( or difference from placebo ) in total hip BMD at 24 months was 1 . 96 % ( DUAVEE minus placebo ) in women who had been postmenopausal between 1 and 5 years and 1 . 73 % ( DUAVEE minus placebo ) in women who had been postmenopausal for more than 5 years .
Study 2 was a 12 - month , double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled study .
The primary endpoint was the incidence of endometrial hyperplasia at 12 months .
The prevention of osteoporosis was assessed in a substudy that enrolled women ( n = 590 ) who were less than 5 years postmenopausal ( mean 2 . 5 years ) .
The mean baseline T - score in the substudy was - 0 . 91 in the DUAVEE group and - 0 . 95 in the placebo group .
The mean age of women ( n = 135 ) taking DUAVEE was 53 years ( range 46 – 60 years ) .
Women also took calcium ( 600 mg ) and vitamin D ( 400 IU ) daily .
In Study 2 , treatment with DUAVEE significantly increased mean lumbar spine BMD ( treatment difference , 1 . 51 % ) , at 12 months compared to placebo in women who had been postmenopausal between 1 and 5 years .
Treatment with DUAVEE also increased total hip BMD .
The treatment difference in total hip BMD at 12 months was 1 . 21 % .
14 . 3 Effects on the Endometrium Effects of DUAVEE on endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial malignancy were assessed in Study 1 and Study 2 .
The Efficacy Evaluable population included patients who had taken at least one dose of DUAVEE , had baseline and post baseline endometrial biopsies , or had been diagnosed with hyperplasia .
By endometrial biopsy , the incidence of endometrial hyperplasia or malignancy for DUAVEE was below 1 % in both studies ( see Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Incidence of Endometrial Hyperplasia or Malignancy at Month 12 and Month 24 STUDY 1 [ 1 ] STUDY 2 null Treatment Group Month % ( n / N ) 1 – Sided 95 % UL % ( n / N ) 1 – Sided 95 % UL UL = Upper limit DUAVEE 12 0 . 00 % ( 0 / 336 ) 0 . 89 0 . 30 % ( 1 / 335 ) 1 . 41 24 0 . 68 % ( 2 / 294 ) 2 . 13 -- -- [ 1 ] = Efficacy Evaluable population 14 . 4 Effects on Uterine Bleeding and Spotting Uterine bleeding or spotting were evaluated in two clinical studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) by daily diary .
In Study 1 , cumulative amenorrhea at Year 1 was 83 % in women treated with DUAVEE and 85 % in women who received placebo .
In Study 2 , cumulative amenorrhea at Year 1 was 88 % in women treated with DUAVEE and 84 % in women who received placebo .
14 . 5 Women ' s Health Initiative Studies The WHI enrolled approximately 11 , 000 predominantly healthy postmenopausal women to assess the risks and benefits of daily oral conjugated estrogens 0 . 625 mg compared to placebo in the prevention of certain chronic diseases .
The primary endpoint was the incidence of CHD ( defined as nonfatal MI , silent MI and CHD death ) , with invasive breast cancer as the primary adverse outcome .
A " global index " included the earliest occurrence of CHD , invasive breast cancer , stroke , PE , colorectal cancer , hip fracture , or death due to other cause .
These substudies did not evaluate the effects of conjugated estrogens on menopausal symptoms .
The WHI estrogen - alone substudy was stopped early because an increased risk of stroke was observed , and it was deemed that no further information would be obtained regarding the risks and benefits of estrogen - alone in predetermined primary endpoints .
Results of the estrogen - alone substudy , which included 10 , 739 women ( average 63 years of age , range 50 to 79 ; 75 . 3 percent White , 15 . 1 percent Black , 6 . 1 percent Hispanic , 3 . 6 percent Other ) , after an average follow - up of 7 . 1 years are presented in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Relative and Absolute Risk Seen in the Estrogen Alone Substudy of WHI [ 1 ] Event Relative Risk CE vs . Placebo ( 95 % nCI [ 2 ] ) CE n = 5 , 310 Placebo N = 5 , 429 Absolute Risk per 10 , 000 Women - Years CHD events [ 3 ] 0 . 95 ( 0 . 78 – 1 . 16 ) 54 57 Non - fatal MI null 0 . 91 ( 0 . 73 – 1 . 14 ) 40 43 CHD death null 1 . 01 ( 0 . 71 – 1 . 43 ) 16 16 All strokes null 1 . 33 ( 1 . 15 – 1 . 68 ) 45 33 Ischemic stroke null 1 . 55 ( 1 . 19 – 2 . 01 ) 38 25 Deep vein thrombosis null , [ 4 ] 1 . 47 ( 1 . 06 – 2 . 06 ) 23 15 Pulmonary embolism null 1 . 37 ( 0 . 90 – 2 . 07 ) 14 10 Invasive breast cancer null 0 . 80 ( 0 . 62 – 1 . 04 ) 28 34 Colorectal cancer [ 5 ] 1 . 08 ( 0 . 75 – 1 . 55 ) 17 16 Hip fracture null 0 . 65 ( 0 . 45 – 0 . 94 ) 12 19 Vertebral fractures null , null 0 . 64 ( 0 . 44 – 0 . 93 ) 11 18 Lower arm / wrist fractures null , null 0 . 58 ( 0 . 47 – 0 . 72 ) 35 59 Total fractures null , null 0 . 71 ( 0 . 64 – 0 . 80 ) 144 197 Death due to other causes null , [ 6 ] 1 . 08 ( 0 . 88 – 1 . 32 ) 53 50 Overall mortality null , null 1 . 04 ( 0 . 88 – 1 . 22 ) 79 75 Global Index [ 7 ] 1 . 02 ( 0 . 92 – 1 . 13 ) 206 201 [ 1 ] Adapted from numerous WHI publications .
WHI publications can be viewed at www . nhlbi . nih . gov / whi .
[ 2 ] Nominal confidence intervals unadjusted for multiple looks and multiple comparisons .
[ 3 ] Results are based on centrally adjudicated data for an average follow - up of 7 . 1 years .
[ 4 ] Not included in " global index " .
[ 5 ] Results are based on an average follow - up of 6 . 8 years .
[ 6 ] All deaths , except from breast or colorectal cancer , definite or probable CHD , PE , or cerebrovascular disease .
[ 7 ] A subset of the events was combined in a " global index " , defined as the earliest occurrence of CHD events , invasive breast cancer , stroke , PE , endometrial cancer , colorectal cancer , hip fracture , or death due to other causes .
For those outcomes included in the WHI " global index " that reached statistical significance , the absolute excess risk per 10 , 000 women - years in the group treated with CE - alone was 12 more strokes , while the absolute risk reduction per 10 , 000 women - years was 7 fewer hip fractures .
The absolute excess risk of events included in the " global index " was a non - significant 5 events per 10 , 000 women - years .
There was no difference between the groups in terms of all - cause mortality .
No overall difference for primary CHD events ( nonfatal MI , silent MI and CHD death ) and invasive breast cancer incidence in women receiving conjugated estrogens - alone compared to placebo was reported in final centrally adjudicated results from the estrogen - alone substudy , after an average follow - up of 7 . 1 years .
Centrally adjudicated results for stroke events from the estrogen - alone substudy , after an average follow - up of 7 . 1 years , reported no significant differences in distribution of stroke subtype or severity , including fatal strokes , in women receiving conjugated estrogens - alone compared to placebo .
Estrogen - alone increased the risk for ischemic stroke , and this excess risk was present in all subgroups of women examined .
Timing of the initiation of estrogen - alone therapy relative to the start of menopause may affect the overall risk benefit profile .
The WHI estrogen - alone substudy , stratified by age , showed in women 50 to 59 years of age a non - significant trend toward reduced risk for CHD [ hazard ratio ( HR ) 0 . 63 ( 95 percent CI , 0 . 36 – 1 . 09 ) ] and overall mortality [ HR 0 . 71 ( 95 percent CI , 0 . 46 – 1 . 11 ) ] .
14 . 6 Women ' s Health Initiative Memory Study The WHIMS estrogen - alone ancillary study of WHI enrolled 2 , 947 predominantly healthy hysterectomized postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age ( 45 percent were 65 to 69 years of age , 36 percent were 70 to 74 years of age , and 19 percent were 75 years of age and older ) to evaluate the effects of daily conjugated estrogens ( 0 . 625 mg ) - alone on the incidence of probable dementia ( primary outcome ) compared to placebo .
After an average follow - up of 5 . 2 years , the relative risk of probable dementia for conjugated estrogens - alone versus placebo was 1 . 49 ( 95 percent CI , 0 . 83 – 2 . 66 ) .
The absolute risk of probable dementia for conjugated estrogens - alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10 , 000 women - years .
Probable dementia as defined in this study included Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , vascular dementia ( VaD ) and mixed type ( having features of both AD and VaD ) .
The most common classification of probable dementia in the treatment group and the placebo group was AD .
Since the ancillary study was conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age , it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DUAVEE tablets contain 0 . 45 mg conjugated estrogens and 20 mg bazedoxifene .
The tablets are oval , biconvex , and pink , branded with " 0 . 45 / 20 " in black ink on one side .
DUAVEE ® tablets are supplied as follows : Package NDC number Conjugated estrogens 0 . 45 mg / bazedoxifene 20 mg 2 blisters of 15 tablets each NDC 0008 - 1123 - 12 Storage Blisters DUAVEE tablets should be stored at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense product in the original package .
Tablets should not be removed from blisters until immediately before use .
Protect from moisture .
After opening foil pouch , product must be used within 60 days .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
17 . 1 Instructions for Patients • • Keep DUAVEE in the original container to protect from moisture .
Do not place DUAVEE in pill boxes or pill organizers .
• • If more than one blister package is dispensed to the patient , instruct them to open one foil pouch at a time .
• • Instruct patient to record the date the blister package is opened in the space provided on the blister package label .
Do not use if the blister package has been open more than 60 days .
• • Instruct patient to remove only one tablet from the blister package at the time of use .
17 . 2 Venous Thromboembolic Events Advise patients to immediately report to their physician any signs or symptoms related to venous thrombosis and thromboembolic events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Abnormal Vaginal Bleeding Inform postmenopausal women of the importance of reporting abnormal vaginal bleeding to their healthcare provider as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 4 Possible Serious Adverse Reactions with Estrogen Therapy Inform postmenopausal women of possible serious adverse reactions of estrogen therapy including Cardiovascular Disorders , Malignant Neoplasms , and Probable Dementia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 5 Possible Less Serious Adverse Reactions with DUAVEE Inform postmenopausal women of possible less serious but common adverse reactions of DUAVEE therapy such as muscle spasms , nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , upper abdominal pain , throat pain , dizziness and neck pain .
17 . 6 Calcium and Vitamin D Intake Advise patients to add supplemental calcium and / or vitamin D to the diet if daily intake is inadequate .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0582 - 8 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information DUAVEE ® ( DEW ' ah - vee ) ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) Tablets Read this Patient Information before you start taking DUAVEE and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about DUAVEE ?
• • Do not take additional estrogen products while you are taking DUAVEE .
• • Using estrogen - alone may increase your chance of getting cancer of the uterus ( womb ) .
• • Report any unusual vaginal bleeding right away while you are taking DUAVEE .
Vaginal bleeding after menopause may be a warning sign of cancer of the uterus ( womb ) .
Your healthcare provider should check any unusual vaginal bleeding to find out the cause .
• • Do not use estrogens to prevent heart disease , heart attacks , strokes or dementia ( decline in brain function ) .
• • Using estrogen - alone may increase your chances of getting strokes or blood clots .
• • Using estrogen - alone may increase your chance of getting dementia , based on a study of women 65 years of age or older .
• • The risks listed above are based on a study of an estrogen - alone oral product .
Since other products and doses have not been studied in the same way , it is not known how the use of DUAVEE will affect your chances of getting these conditions .
You and your healthcare provider should talk regularly about whether you still need treatment with DUAVEE .
What is DUAVEE ?
DUAVEE is a prescription medicine that contains a mixture of estrogens and bazedoxifene .
What is DUAVEE used for ?
DUAVEE is used after menopause for women with a uterus to : • • reduce moderate to severe hot flushes Estrogens are hormones made by a woman ' s ovaries .
The ovaries normally stop making estrogens when a woman is between 45 and 55 years old .
This drop in body estrogen levels causes the " change of life " or menopause ( the end of monthly menstrual periods ) .
Sometimes both ovaries are removed during an operation before natural menopause takes place .
The sudden drop in estrogen levels causes " surgical menopause . "
When the estrogen levels begin dropping , some women get very uncomfortable symptoms , such as feelings of warmth in the face , neck , and chest , or sudden intense episodes of heat and sweating ( " hot flashes " or " hot flushes " ) .
In some women , the symptoms are mild , and they will not need to take medicines .
In other women , symptoms can be more severe .
• • help reduce your chances of developing osteoporosis ( thin , weak bones ) If you use DUAVEE only to prevent osteoporosis due to menopause , talk with your healthcare provider about whether a different treatment or medicine without estrogens might be better for you .
DUAVEE should be taken for the shortest time possible and only for as long as treatment is needed .
You and your healthcare provider should talk regularly about whether you still need treatment with DUAVEE .
DUAVEE is not for use in children .
It is not known if DUAVEE is safe and effective in people with kidney problems .
Who should not take DUAVEE ?
Do not take DUAVEE if you : • • currently have or have had blood clots • • are allergic to estrogens or bazedoxifene , the active ingredients in DUAVEE , or any of its ingredients .
See the list of ingredients in DUAVEE at the end of this leaflet .
• • have unusual vaginal bleeding .
Vaginal bleeding after menopause may be a warning sign of cancer of the uterus ( womb ) .
Your healthcare provider should check any unusual vaginal bleeding to find out the cause .
• • currently have or have had certain cancers .
Estrogens may increase the chances of getting certain types of cancers , including cancer of the breast or uterus .
If you have or have had cancer , talk with your healthcare provider about whether you should use DUAVEE .
• • currently have or have had liver problems • • have been diagnosed with a bleeding disorder • • are pregnant .
DUAVEE is not for pregnant women .
If you think you may be pregnant , you should have a pregnancy test and know the results .
Do not take DUAVEE if the test is positive and talk to your healthcare provider .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking DUAVEE ?
Before you take DUAVEE , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • have any unusual vaginal bleeding .
• • have any other medical conditions .
Your healthcare provider may need to check you more carefully if you have certain conditions , such as asthma ( wheezing ) , epilepsy ( seizures ) , diabetes , migraine , endometriosis , lupus , or problems with your heart , liver , thyroid , kidneys , or have high calcium levels in your blood .
• • are going to have surgery or will be on bed rest .
Your healthcare provider will let you know if you need to stop taking DUAVEE .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take other hormonal medicines , including progestins or other medicines like DUAVEE .
Ask your healthcare provider if you do not know if you take any of these medicines .
Some medicines may affect how DUAVEE works .
DUAVEE may also affect how your other medicines work .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take DUAVEE ?
• • DUAVEE comes in a blister package .
• • Record the date you open the foil pouch in the space provided on the blister package label .
Do not use if the blister package has been open for more than 60 days .
• • Take DUAVEE exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• • Take 1 DUAVEE tablet at the same time each day .
• • DUAVEE should be swallowed whole .
• • Take DUAVEE with or without food .
• • You should not remove DUAVEE from the blister until right before you are ready to take it .
Remove 1 tablet at a time from the blister package .
Do not place DUAVEE in pill boxes or pill organizers .
• • If you miss a dose of DUAVEE , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
If you are not sure about your dosing , call your healthcare provider .
• • If you take a calcium or vitamin D supplement , you may take it at the same time you take DUAVEE .
• • If you take too much DUAVEE , call your healthcare provider .
Symptoms of taking too much DUAVEE include : • • nausea • vomiting • breast tenderness • dizziness • abdominal pain • feeling tired • vaginal bleeding What are the possible side effects of DUAVEE ?
Side effects are grouped by how serious they are and how often they happen when you are treated .
Serious side effects include : • • blood clots • • stroke • • heart attack • • cancer of the lining of the uterus • • breast cancer • • cancer of the ovary • • dementia • • gallbladder problems • • loss of vision • • high blood pressure • • increased fats in your blood • • liver problems • • thyroid problems • • fluid retention • • low calcium • • swelling of your mouth or tongue • • worsening of other medical problems such as asthma , diabetes , epilepsy , migraines , a genetic problem called porphyria , lupus and liver problems Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following warning signs , or any other unusual symptoms that concern you : • • new breast lumps • • unusual vaginal bleeding • • changes in vision or speech • • sudden new severe headaches • • severe pains in your chest or legs with or without shortness of breath , weakness and fatigue Less serious , but common side effects include : • • muscle spasms • • nausea • • diarrhea • • upset stomach • • abdominal pain • • throat pain • • dizziness • • neck pain These are not all the possible side effects of DUAVEE .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effects that bother you or do not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What can I do to lower my chances of a serious side effect with DUAVEE ?
• • Talk with your healthcare provider regularly about whether you should continue taking DUAVEE .
• • See your healthcare provider right away if you get vaginal bleeding while taking DUAVEE .
• • Have a pelvic exam , breast exam and mammogram ( breast X - ray ) every year unless your healthcare provider tells you something else .
• • If members of your family have had breast cancer or if you have ever had breast lumps or an abnormal mammogram , you may need to have breast exams more often .
• • If you have high blood pressure , high cholesterol ( fat in the blood ) , diabetes , are overweight , or if you use tobacco , you may have higher chances of getting heart disease .
Ask your healthcare provider for ways to lower your chances of getting heart disease .
How do I store DUAVEE ?
• • Store DUAVEE at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep DUAVEE in the blister until you are ready to take it to protect the tablet from moisture .
• • Do not place DUAVEE in pill boxes or pill organizers .
• • After opening the foil pouch the DUAVEE blisters come in , DUAVEE must be used within 60 days .
Keep DUAVEE and all other medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of DUAVEE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use DUAVEE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DUAVEE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about DUAVEE .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about DUAVEE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in DUAVEE ?
Active Ingredients : conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene .
Conjugated estrogens are a mixture of sodium estrone sulfate and sodium equilin sulfate and other components , including sodium sulfate conjugates , 17α - dihydroequilin , 17α - estradiol , and 17β - dihydroequilin .
Inactive Ingredients : calcium phosphate tribasic , hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , powdered cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , sucrose , ascorbic acid , sucrose palmitic acid ester , hydroxyethylcellulose , titanium dioxide , red iron oxide , yellow iron oxide , black iron oxide , povidone , polydextrose , maltitol , poloxamer 188 , propylene glycol , isopropyl alcohol .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
or call 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0583 - 6 . 0 Revised December 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 7 Tablet Blister Card PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE NDC 63539 - 122 - 07 Pfizer Duavee ™ ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) tablets per tablet 0 . 45 mg / 20 mg * * Each tablet contains bazedoxifene equivalent to 22 . 6 mg of bazedoxifene acetate 7 tablets After opening foil pouch , product must be used within 60 days .
Date foil pouch opened : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store product in original package to keep from moisture .
Tablets should not be removed from blisters until immediately before administration .
Do not place medication in pill boxes .
Distributed by U . S . Pharmaceuticals Pfizer Inc , NY , NY 10017 MADE IN IRELAND Rx only PAA042983 LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 7 Tablet Blister Pouch PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE NDC 63539 - 122 - 07 Pfizer Duavee ™ ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) tablets 0 . 45 mg / 20 mg * After opening foil pouch , product must be used within 60 days .
Dispense and store product in original package to protect from moisture .
7 tablets Rx only Package includes 1 blister card containing 7 tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 7 Tablet Carton PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE NDC 63539 - 122 - 07 PfizerDuavee ™ 0 . 45 mg / 20 mg * ( conjugated estrogens / bazedoxifene ) tablets After opening foil pouch , product must be used within 60 days .
Dispense and store product in original package to protect from moisture .
Rx only 7 tablets Package includes 1 blister card containing 7 tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
