1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOTEMAX ® ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 5 % ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
LOTEMAX ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash hands prior to using LOTEMAX ointment .
Apply a small amount ( approximately ½ inch ribbon ) into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
Apply a small amount ( approximately ½ inch ribbon ) into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic ointment containing loteprednol etabonate 0 . 5 % .
Ophthalmic ointment containing loteprednol etabonate 0 . 5 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS LOTEMAX ointment , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
LOTEMAX ointment , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Cataracts : Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Delayed Healing : The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Bacterial Infections : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Viral Infections : Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Fungal Infections : Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
5 . 2 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Healing The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 14 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Bacterial Infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
5 . 5 Viral Infections Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
5 . 6 Fungal Infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal culture should be taken when appropriate .
5 . 7 Risk of Contamination Do not to touch the eyelid or surrounding areas with the tip of the tube .
The cap should remain on the tube when not in use .
5 . 8 Contact Lens Wear Patients should not wear contact lenses during their course of therapy with LOTEMAX ointment .
5 . 9 Topical Ophthalmic Use LOTEMAX is not indicated for intraocular administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
The most common ocular adverse event reported at approximately 25 % in subjects in clinical studies with LOTEMAX ointment was anterior chamber inflammation .
Other common adverse events , with an incidence of 4 - 5 % , were conjunctival hyperemia , corneal edema , and eye pain .
Many of these events may have been the consequence of the surgical procedure .
The only non - ocular adverse event occurring at ≥ 1 % was headache ( 1 . 5 % ) .
The most common ocular adverse event , reported in approximately 25 % of subjects in clinical studies , is anterior chamber inflammation .
Other common adverse events , with an incidence of 4 - 5 % , are conjunctival hyperemia , corneal edema , and eye pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with loteprednol etabonate in pregnant women .
Loteprednol etabonate produced teratogenicity at clinically relevant doses in the rabbit and rat when administered orally during pregnancy .
Loteprednol etabonate produced malformations when administered orally to pregnant rabbits at doses ≥ 1 . 6 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) and to pregnant rats at doses ≥ 41 times the RHOD .
In pregnant rats receiving oral doses of loteprednol etabonate during the period equivalent to the last trimester of pregnancy through lactation in humans , survival of offspring was reduced at doses ≥ 4 times the RHOD .
Maternal toxicity was observed in rats at doses ≥ 405 times the RHOD , and a maternal no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was established at 41 times the RHOD .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal studies were conducted in pregnant rabbits administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 18 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Loteprednol etabonate produced fetal malformations at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) based on body surface area , assuming 100 % absorption ) .
Spina bifida ( including meningocele ) was observed at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg , and exencephaly and craniofacial malformations were observed at doses ≥ 0 . 4 mg / kg ( 6 . 5 times the RHOD ) .
At 3 mg / kg ( 49 times the RHOD ) , loteprednol etabonate was associated with increased incidences of abnormal left common carotid artery , limb flexures , umbilical hernia , scoliosis , and delayed ossification .
Abortion and embryofetal lethality ( resorption ) occurred at doses ≥ 6 mg / kg ( 97 times the RHOD ) .
A NOAEL for developmental toxicity was not established in this study .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity in rabbits was 3 mg / kg / day .
Embryofetal studies were conducted in pregnant rats administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 15 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Loteprednol etabonate produced fetal malformations , including absent innominate artery at doses ≥ 5 mg / kg ( 41 times the RHOD ) ; and cleft palate , agnathia , cardiovascular defects , umbilical hernia , decreased fetal body weight and decreased skeletal ossification at doses ≥ 50 mg / kg ( 410 times the RHOD ) .
Embryofetal lethality ( resorption ) was observed at 100 mg / kg ( 811 times the RHOD ) .
The NOAEL for developmental toxicity in rats was 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 4 times the RHOD ) .
Loteprednol etabonate was maternally toxic ( reduced body weight gain ) at doses of ≥ 50 mg / kg / day .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 5 mg / kg .
A peri - / postnatal study was conducted in rats administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage from gestation day 15 ( start of fetal period ) to postnatal day 21 ( the end of lactation period ) .
At doses ≥ 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 4 times the clinical dose ) , reduced survival was observed in live - born offspring .
Doses ≥ 5 mg / kg ( 41 times the RHOD ) caused umbilical hernia / incomplete gastrointestinal tract .
Doses ≥ 50 mg / kg ( 410 times the RHOD ) produced maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight gain , death ) , decreased number of live - born offspring , decreased birth weight , and delays in postnatal development .
A developmental NOAEL was not established in this study .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 5 mg / kg .
8 . 2 Lactation There are no data on the presence of loteprednol etabonate in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for LOTEMAX ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 5 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from LOTEMAX .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION LOTEMAX ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 5 % is a sterile , topical corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
Loteprednol etabonate is a white to off - white powder .
Loteprednol etabonate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical name : chloromethyl 17α - [ ( ethoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - 11β - hydroxy - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carboxylate Each gram contains : Active : Loteprednol etabonate 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) ; Inactives : Mineral Oil and White Petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
While glucocorticoids are known to bind to and activate the glucocorticoid receptor , the molecular mechanisms involved in glucocorticoid / glucocorticoid receptor - dependent modulation of inflammation are not clearly established .
However , corticosteroids are thought to inhibit prostaglandin production through several independent mechanisms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic exposure to loteprednol etabonate following ocular administration of LOTEMAX ointment has not been studied in humans .
However , results from a bioavailability study with LOTEMAX suspension in normal volunteers established that plasma concentrations of loteprednol etabonate and Δ ¹ cortienic acid etabonate ( PJ 91 ) , its primary , inactive metabolite , were below the limit of quantitation ( 1 ng / mL ) at all sampling times .
The results were obtained following the ocular administration of one drop in each eye of 0 . 5 % loteprednol etabonate suspension , 8 times daily for 2 days or 4 times daily for 42 days .
The maximum systemic exposure to loteprednol following administration of the ointment product dosed 4 times daily is not expected to exceed exposures attained with LOTEMAX suspension dosed up to two drops 4 times daily .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of loteprednol etabonate .
Loteprednol etabonate was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma tk assay , or in a chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , or in vivo in the single dose mouse micronucleus assay .
Treatment of female and male rats with doses ≥ 25 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate ( 203 times the RHOD based on body surface area , assuming 100 % absorption ) prior to and during mating caused preimplantation loss and decreased the number of live fetuses / live births .
The NOAEL for fertility in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( 41 times the RHOD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two independent , randomized , multicenter , double - masked , parallel - group , vehicle - controlled studies in 805 subjects meeting a protocol - specified threshold amount of anterior chamber inflammation , LOTEMAX ointment was more effective compared to its vehicle for complete resolution of post - operative anterior chamber cell , flare , and pain following cataract surgery .
Primary endpoint was complete resolution of anterior chamber cells and flare ( cell count of 0 and no flare ) and no pain at post - operative Day 8 .
The individual clinical trial results are provided below .
In the two studies , LOTEMAX had statistically significant higher incidence of complete clearing of anterior chamber cells and flare at post - operative Day 8 ( 24 - 32 % vs . 11 - 14 % ) and also had a statistically significant higher incidence of subjects that were pain free at post - operative Day 8 ( 73 - 78 % vs . 41 - 45 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LOTEMAX ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 5 % is a sterile ointment supplied in a tin tube with a pink polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC 24208 - 443 - 35 3 . 5 g tube DO NOT USE IF TAMPER - EVIDENT SKIRT IS VISIBLE ON BOTTOM OF CAP .
Storage : Store between 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
After opening , LOTEMAX can be used until the expiration date on the tube .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Risk of Contamination Advise patients to wash hands prior to using LOTEMAX ointment .
Advise patients not to touch the eyelid or surrounding areas with the tip of the tube .
The cap should remain on the tube when not in use .
Contact Lens Wear Advise patients not to wear contact lenses during their course of therapy .
Risk of Secondary Infection Advise patients to consult a physician if pain , redness , itching or inflammation becomes aggravated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA LOTEMAX is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9234804 ( Flat ) 9234904 ( Folded ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24208 - 443 - 35 BAUSCH + LOMB Lotemax ® loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic ointment 0 . 5 % FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Rx only Sterile Net .
Wt .
1 / 8 oz .
( 3 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
