WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 , 10 ) WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 , 10 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma .
Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is L - thyroxine ( T4 ) indicated in adult patients for the treatment of myxedema coma .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not recommended as a substitute for oral levothyroxine sodium because the relative bioavailability of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to oral levothyroxine sodium has not been established and there is a risk of inaccurate dose conversion .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not recommended as a substitute for oral levothyroxine sodium because the relative bioavailability of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to oral levothyroxine sodium has not been established and there is a risk of inaccurate dose conversion .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Consider the age , general physical condition , cardiac risk factors , and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms when determining dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease .
( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended loading dose is 300 mcg to 500 mcg administered intravenously .
( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended maintenance dose is 50 mcg to 100 mcg administered intravenously daily until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Injection intravenously at a rate not to exceed 100 mcg per minute .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not add Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to intravenous fluids .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage • Consider the age , general physical condition , cardiac risk factors , and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms when determining the starting and maintenance dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
• Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
• The recommended loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is 300 mcg to 500 mcg administered intravenously .
• The recommended maintenance dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is 50 mcg to 100 mcg administered intravenously daily until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions • Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Injection as an intravenous injection at a rate not to exceed 100 mcg per minute .
• Do not add Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to intravenous fluids .
• Inspect Levothyroxine Sodium Injection visually prior to injection .
It should appear clear and colorless , solution free of visible particulates .
Do not use if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• Discard any unused portion .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is clear , colorless solution supplied as : • 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) single - dose vial Injection : • 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease : Overtreatment may cause arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease and monitor patients after administration ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency : Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Worsening of Diabetic Control : May worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Overtreatment with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection may cause arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease and monitor patients after administration of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection for cardiac adverse reactions .
5 . 2 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis , which can lead to myxedema coma , may occur in association with other autoimmune disorders such as adrenal insufficiency .
Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids .
Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
5 . 3 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : • General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating • Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia • Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm • Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest • Respiratory : dyspnea • Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests • Dermatologic : flushing , rash Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy .
Adverse reactions associated with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating , headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm , palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest , dyspnea , diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests , flushing , and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness , and wheezing .
Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) that may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection ( see Tables 1 - 3 ) .
Table 1 : Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Effecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Potential impact ( below ) : Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein - binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increase free T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total and free T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 2 : Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine .
Table 3 : Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change slightly , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
It should be noted that actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( See above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decreased or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Careful monitoring of glycemic control is recommended .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides Levothyroxine may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
Levothyroxine may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and levothyroxine may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients .
7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may of sympathomimetics and levothyroxine may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determine the free T4 index ( FT4I ) in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens , and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9 , 000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no available data with use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in pregnant women .
The clinical data in pregnant women treated with oral levothyroxine to maintain a euthyroid state have not reported increased rates of major birth defects , miscarriages , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with myxedema coma in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with levothyroxine sodium .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Myxedema coma is a medical emergency which can be fatal , if left untreated .
Delaying treatment in pregnant women with myxedema coma increases the risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality .
Life - sustaining therapy for the pregnant woman should not be withheld due to potential concerns regarding the effects of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection on the fetus .
Data Human Data There is no available data with use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in pregnant women .
Oral levothyroxine is approved for use as a replacement therapy in hypothyroidism .
There is a long experience of oral levothyroxine use in pregnant women that has not reported increased rates of fetal malformations , miscarriages or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes associated with levothyroxine use in pregnant women .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk following the administration of oral levothyroxine .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of levothyroxine on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of levothyroxine on milk production .
There is no available data with use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in lactating women .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for levothyroxine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from levothyroxine or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly , initiate Levothyroxine Sodium Injection with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease and closely monitor for cardiac adverse reactions .
Atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly patients .
Atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with levothyroxine overtreatment in the elderly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Reduce the Levothyroxine Sodium Injection dose or temporarily discontinue if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
Initiate appropriate supportive treatment as dictated by the patient ' s medical status .
11 DESCRIPTION Levothyroxine Sodium Injection contains synthetic crystalline levothyroxine ( T4 ) in sodium salt form .
Levothyroxine sodium has an empirical formula of C15H10I4NNaO4 , a molecular weight of 798 . 85 g / mol ( anhydrous ) , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is a sterile , preservative free , clear , colorless , sterile solution for intravenous administration available as : 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) .
Each mL of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection also contains 10 mg Tromethamine , USP ; 0 . 14 mg Sodium Iodide , USP ; 6 . 48 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; and Water for Injection , USP Sodium hydroxide , NF and / or Hydrochloric acid , USP may have been added for pH adjustment ( 9 . 5 – 10 . 8 ) .
Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is in single dose clear glass vials .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and levothyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Levothyroxine sodium is a synthetic T4 hormone that exerts the same physiologic effect as endogenous T4 , thereby maintaining normal T4 levels when a deficiency is present .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Metabolism T4 is slowly eliminated .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately eighty percent of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( rT3 ) .
T3 and rT3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Excretion Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged , where it is hydrolyzed and eliminated in feces as the free hormones .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid Patients T4 : Levothyroxine T3 : Liothyronine 1 3 to 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism .
2 Includes TBG , TBPA , and TBA .
Hormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( Days ) Protein Binding ( % ) 2 T4 10 to 20 1 6 to 81 99 . 96 T3 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is a clear , colorless solution available as follows : NDC Total Strength per Total Volume Concentration 63323 - 885 - 12 100 mcg per 5 mL 20 mcg per mL Protect from light in the original vial in a carton and store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The unopened vial may be stored for up to 24 hours exposed to indoor lighting outside of the carton .
The drug product is preservative free .
Discard any unused portion .
PREMIERProRx ® is a registered trademark of Premier Healthcare Alliance , L . P . , used under license .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451681 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 5 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 885 - 12 Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) For intravenous use .
Preservative free .
5 mL Single - Dose Vial - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 5 mL Carton NDC 63323 - 885 - 12 Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) For intravenous use .
Preservative free .
5 mL Single - Dose Vial - Discard Unused Portion Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
