Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of Reach of Children Keep out of Reach of Children Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 11 % Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Directions For Sunscreen Use Apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Reapply at least every 2 hours .
Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Immediately after towel drying .
At least every 2 hours .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectgrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am to 2 pm , wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients hydrogenated polyisobutene , caprylic / capric triglyceride , ethylene / propylene / styrene copolymer , butyloctyl salicylate , octyldodecyl neopentanoate , pentaerythrityl tetraisostearate , isostearic acid , lecithin , polyglyceryl - 3 polyricnoleate , polyhydroxystearic acid , ethylhexyl palmitate , bytlene / ethylene / styrene copolymer , aroma , tribehenin , limonene , phenyl trimethicone , ppg - 12 / smdi copolymer , sorbitan isostearate , silica dimethyl silylate , butylene glycol , pentylene glycol , pentaerythrityl tetra - di - t - butyl hydroxylhydrocinnamate , lacic acid , linalool , sodium chondroitin sulfate , citral , atelocollagen , palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , persea gratissma ( avocado ) oil , diisopropyl dimer dilinoleate , tocopheryl acetate , tocopherol , oryzanol , ubiquinone Questions Questions : Call 800 - 796 - 7546 Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
