Principal Display Panel - Statement of identity Lip Balm Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Drug Facts Panel - Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % ----- Sunscreen Homosalate 8 . 2 % ----- Sunscreen Octinoxate 7 . 5 % ------- Sunscreen Octocrylene 7 . 0 % ----- Sunscreen Drug Facts Panel - Purpose Purpose : sunscreen Drug Facts Panel - Use Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin ageing caused by the sun .
Drug Facts Panel - Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Drug Facts Panel - Warnings - Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Drug Facts Panel - Warnings - When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Drug Facts Panel - Warnings - Stop use Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Drug Facts Panel - Warnings - Keep out of reach of children , Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Drug Facts Panel - Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply at least every 2 hours .
Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including :  limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m .  wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Drug Facts Panel - Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Drug Facts Panel - Inactive ingredients Beeswax , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Carnauba Wax , Fragrance , Hydrogenated Vegetable Glycerides , Isopropyl Palmitate , Mineral Oil , Ozokerite , Paraffin , Synthetic Candellila Wax , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter .
Questions or comments Contact weekdays from 9 AM to 5 PM at 1 - 305 - 646 - 1169 .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel NDC 77069 - 001 - 01 Level 1 - cylinder ( stick ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 77069 - 001 - 01 Level 2 - blister ( 3 x stick ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
