Active Ingredient ( s ) ALCOHOL DENAT .
75 % Purpose efficient to kill staphylococcus aureus , e . coil , pseudo - monas aeruginosa and candida albicans etc Use 1 .
Hand disinfection : follow the standard method to use soap to wash hands , rinse with running water , dry with sterile towels , then direct spray this product on hands and forearms until moist , wait for 3 minutes , rub hands until dry .
2 .
General object surface disinfection : directly spray on the object surface for until moist , wait for 3 - 5 minutes .
Warnings 1 .
EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE .
pressurized container ; protect from sunlight and do n't expose to temperatures exceeding 50 ℃ .
Do n't pierce or burn , even after use .
Do n't spray on a naked flame or any incandescent material .
Keep it away from the reach of children .
Do n't spray towards eyes .
2 .
External disinfectant should not be taken orally and kept out of reach of children .
3 .
Use with caution if allergic to alcohol .
4 .
It should not be used to disinfect fat - soluble surface .
5 .
This product is irritating to wounds and mucous membranes .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • 1 .
Hand disinfection : follow the standard method to use soap to wash hands , rinse with running water , dry with sterile towels , then direct spray this product on hands and forearms until moist , wait for 3 minutes , rub hands until dry .
• 2 .
General object surface disinfection : directly spray on the object surface for until moist , wait for 3 - 5 minutes .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 200 ml in 1 bottle NDC : 81276 - 014 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
