Active Ingredients Naphazoline Hydrochloride ( 0 . 027 % ) Pheniramine Maleate ( 0 . 315 % ) Purpose Redness Reliever Antihistamine Uses : temporarily relieves itching and redness caused by pollen , ragweed , grass , animal hair and dander .
Warnings : if you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye , or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Do not use in children under 6 years of age unless directed by a physician .
If this solution changes color or becomes cloudy , do not use .
Overuse of this product may produce increased redness of the eye .
If you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product , do not use .
To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Replace cap after using .
Do not use if imprinted seal on cap is torn , broken or missing , or if imprinted seals on top ad bottom flaps are not intact and completely legible .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to enlarged prostrate gland • narrow angle glaucoma Remove contact lenses before using .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience : eye pain , changes in vision , redness or irritation of the eye that worsens or persists for more than 72 hours .
Overuse of this product may produce increased redness of the eye .
Pupils may become enlarged temporarily .
You may experience a brief tingling sensation after putting drops in eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Accidental oral ingestion in infants and children may lead to coma and marked reduction in body temperature .
Directions : Adults and children 6 years of age and older : instill 1 or 2 drops in affected eye ( s ) up to 4 times daily .
Children under 6 years : ask a doctor .
Store at room temperature 20 degrees - 25 degrees C ( 68 degrees - 77 degrees F ) .
Protect from light .
Use before expiration date marked on the carton or bottle .
Available in 15 mL NDC 59390 - 177 - 13 and 30 mL NDC 59390 - 177 - 18 Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % , boric acid , edetate disodium 0 . 1 % , hypromellose , purified water , sodium borate , and sodium chloride .
Questions or comments Call ( 631 ) 722 - 5988 9 am - 5 pm EST Monday - Friday Manufactured by : Altaire Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Aquebogue , N . Y . 11931 ALTAIRE Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Aquebogue , N . Y . 11931 Naphazoline HCI 0 . 027 % and Pheniramine Maleate 0 . 315 % Ophthalmic Solution , USP Eye Allergy Relief With Antihistamine To Relieve Itching Itching and Redness Reliever Eye Drops 0 . 5 Fl .
OZ .
( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
