Active Ingredients Camphor , 3 % Menthol , 2 . 52 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscle and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , cramps , bruises , and sprains .
Warnings For external use only Do not Apply to open wounds , or damaged , broken , or irritated skin Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or if there is redness or irritation in the applied area or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Caution • Discontinue use if excessive irritation of the skin develops • Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Arthritis : If pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present , or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age , consult a physician immedately Pregant or breast feeding ask a healthcare professional about use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over the age of 12 : • Remove plastic backing from patch and discard • Apply one patch to affected area • Repeat if necessary , but no more than 3 per day • Patch shold be comfortable but not tight Children under 12 : consult a doctor before use Inactive Ingredients Angelica Dahurica Root , Atractylodes Lancea Root , Borneol , Chinese Angelica , Chondroitin Sulfate , Ginger , Kaempferia Galanga Root , Kusnezoff Monkshood Root ( raw ) , Lemon , Ligusticum Sinense / Subsp .
Chuanxiong Root , Mineral Oil , Musk , Petrolatum , Radix Aconiti , Rosin , Silicone , Star Anise , Wintergreen Oil , Zinc Oxide Other Information Keep sealed in a dry environment at no more than 85 ° F / 29 ° C and avoid any direct sun exposure .
Questions / Comments ?
www . larasan . com / painpatch Flex24 ™ Pain Patch Quick Relief for the Pain of Arthritis • Strains • Cramps • Bruises Distributed by : Larasan Pharmaceutical Corporation 401 East Las Olas Blvd . , Suite 1400 Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33301 Tel . 1 - 855 - LARASAN NDC 54641 - 005 - 01 Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
