Active Ingredients Homosalate 10 % , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate 7 . 5 % , Butyl Methoxydibenzoylmethane 3 % , Octocrylene 2 . 7 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps Prevent Sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions : • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 : 00 AM – 2 : 00 PM • Wear long sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Squalane ( Olive - Derived ) , Emulsifying Wax NF , Sodium Hyaluronate , Meadowfoam Delta Lactone , Limnanthes Alba ( Meadowfoam ) Seed Oil , Crambe Abyssinica Seed Oil , Olea Europea ( Olive ) Oil Unsaponifiables , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil and Retinyl Palmitate ( and ) Tocopherol Acetate ( and ) Ascorbyl Isostearate ( Vitamins A , C , E ) , Cholecalciferol ( Corn ) Oil ( Vitamin D3 ) , Chamomilla Recutita Matricaria Flower Extract , Capryl Glycol ( and ) Caprylic Acid ( and ) Lauric Acid , Capryl Glycol ( and ) Caprylhydroxamic Acid ( and ) Glycerin , Carbomer Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun TriLipiderm Protective Day Creme . 14 oz .
Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 7 oz .
Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
