Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs : Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in pediatric patients .
( See WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients , and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) DESCRIPTION Amitriptyline HCl , a dibenzocycloheptadiene derivative , is a white , or practically white , odorless , crystalline compound which is freely soluble in water and alcohol .
It is designated chemically as 10 , 11 - Dihydro - N , N - dimethyl - 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cycloheptene - Δ 5 , γ - propylamine hydrochloride .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet for oral administration contains 10 , 25 , 50 , 75 , 100 , or 150 mg amitriptyline hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose ( monohydrate ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch ( corn ) and titanium dioxide .
The 10 mg also includes D & C Red # 27 Aluminum Lake , D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake ; 25 mg – D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake ; 50 mg – FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake , D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake ; 75 mg – D & C Red # 7 Calcium Lake and FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake ; 100 mg – D & C Red # 30 Aluminum Lake and D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake ; 150 mg – D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Amitriptyline HCl is an antidepressant with sedative effects .
Its mechanism of action in man is not known .
It is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and it does not act primarily by stimulation of the central nervous system .
Amitriptyline inhibits the membrane pump mechanism responsible for uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in adrenergic and serotonergic neurons .
Pharmacologically , this action may potentiate or prolong neuronal activity since reuptake of these biogenic amines is important physiologically in terminating transmitting activity .
This interference with reuptake of norepinephrine and / or serotonin is believed by some to underlie the antidepressant activity of amitriptyline .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the relief of symptoms of depression .
Endogenous depression is more likely to be alleviated than are other depressive states .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Amitriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who have shown prior hypersensitivity to it .
It should not be given concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Hyperpyretic crises , severe convulsions , and deaths have occurred in patients receiving tricyclic antidepressant and monoamine oxidase inhibiting drugs simultaneously .
When it is desired to replace a monoamine oxidase inhibitor with amitriptyline hydrochloride , a minimum of 14 days should be allowed to elapse after the former is discontinued .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride should then be initiated cautiously with gradual increase in dosage until optimum response is achieved .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride should not be given with cisapride due to the potential for increased QT interval and increased risk for arrhythmia .
This drug is not recommended for use during the acute recovery phase following myocardial infarction .
WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 to 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 - 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 - 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for amitriptyline hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that amitriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine or similarly acting compounds .
It should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures and , because of its atropine - like action , in patients with a history of urinary retention or angle - closure glaucoma .
In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , even average doses may precipitate an attack .
Patients with cardiovascular disorders should be watched closely .
Tricyclic antidepressant drugs , including amitriptyline hydrochloride , particularly when given in high doses , have been reported to produce arrhythmias , sinus tachycardia , and prolongation of the conduction time .
Myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported with drugs of this class .
Close supervision is required when amitriptyline hydrochloride is given to hyperthyroid patients or those receiving thyroid medication .
Amitriptyline may enhance the response to alcohol and the effects of barbiturates and other CNS depressants .
In patients who may use alcohol excessively , it should be borne in mind that the potentiation may increase the danger inherent in any suicide attempt or overdosage .
Delirium has been reported with concurrent administration of amitriptyline and disulfiram .
Angle - Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including amitriptyline hydrochloride may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice , rats , or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg / kg / day ( up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose [ 1 ] ) .
Studies in literature have shown amitriptyline to be teratogenic in mice and hamsters when given by various routes of administration at doses of 28 to 100 mg / kg / day ( 9 to 33 times the maximum recommended human dose ) , producing multiple malformations .
Another study in the rat reported that an oral dose of 25 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum recommended human dose ) produced delays in ossification of fetal vertebral bodies without other signs of embryotoxicity .
In rabbits , an oral dose of 60 mg / kg / day ( 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ) was reported to cause incomplete ossification of cranial bones .
Amitriptyline has been shown to cross the placenta .
Although a causal relationship has not been established , there have been a few reports of adverse events , including CNS effects , limb deformities , or developmental delay , in infants whose mothers had taken amitriptyline during pregnancy .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
[ 1 ] Based on a maximum recommended amitriptyline dose of 150 mg / day or 3 mg / kg / day for a 50 kg patient .
Nursing Mothers Amitriptyline is excreted into breast milk .
In one report in which a patient received amitriptyline 100 mg / day while nursing her infant , levels of 83 to 141 ng / mL were detected in the mother ’ s serum .
Levels of 135 to 151 ng / mL were found in the breast milk , but no trace of the drug could be detected in the infant ’ s serum .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from amitriptyline , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Usage in Pediatric Patients In view of the lack of experience with the use of this drug in pediatric patients , it is not recommended at the present time for patients under 12 years of age .
PRECAUTIONS Schizophrenic patients may develop increased symptoms of psychosis ; patients with paranoid symptomatology may have an exaggeration of such symptoms .
Depressed patients , particularly those with known manic - depressive illness , may experience a shift to mania or hypomania .
In these circumstances the dose of amitriptyline may be reduced or a major tranquilizer such as perphenazine may be administered concurrently .
The possibility of suicide in depressed patients remains until significant remission occurs .
Potentially suicidal patients should not have access to large quantities of this drug .
Prescriptions should be written for the smallest amount feasible .
Concurrent administration of amitriptyline hydrochloride and electroshock therapy may increase the hazards associated with such therapy .
Such treatment should be limited to patients for whom it is essential .
When possible , the drug should be discontinued several days before elective surgery .
Both elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels have been reported .
Amitriptyline hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with impaired liver function .
Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with amitriptyline hydrochloride and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about “ Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions ” is available for amitriptyline hydrochloride .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking amitriptyline hydrochloride .
Patients should be advised that taking amitriptyline hydrochloride can cause mild pupillary dilation , which in susceptible individuals , can lead to an episode of angle - closure glaucoma .
Pre - existing glaucoma is almost always open - angle glaucoma because angle - closure glaucoma , when diagnosed , can be treated definitively with iridectomy .
Open - angle glaucoma is not a risk factor for angle - closure glaucoma .
Patients may wish to be examined to determine whether they are susceptible to angle closure , and have a prophylactic procedure ( e . g . , iridectomy ) , if they are susceptible .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day - to - day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ’ s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
While on therapy with amitriptyline hydrochloride , patients should be advised as to the possible impairment of mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions Topiramate Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient ’ s clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels .
Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) is reduced in a subset of the caucasian population ( about 7 to 10 % of Caucasians are so called “ poor metabolizers ” ) ; reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian , African and other populations are not yet available .
Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) when given usual doses .
Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6 , the increase in plasma concentration may be small , or quite large ( 8 fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA ) .
In addition , certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers .
An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy .
The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme ( quinidine ; cimetidine ) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 ( many other antidepressants , phenothiazines , and the Type 1 C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide ) .
While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , and paroxetine , inhibit P450 2D6 , they may vary in the extent of inhibition .
The extent to which SSRI - TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved .
Nevertheless , caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other .
Of particular importance , sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine , given the long half - life of the parent and active metabolite ( at least 5 weeks may be necessary ) .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
Furthermore , whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co - therapy , an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required .
It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6 .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors – see CONTRAINDICATIONS section .
Guanethidine or similarly acting compounds ; thyroid medication ; alcohol , barbiturates and other CNS depressants ; and disulfiram – see WARNINGS section .
When amitriptyline is given with anticholinergic agents or sympathomimetic drugs , including epinephrine combined with local anesthetics , close supervision and careful adjustment of dosages are required .
Hyperpyrexia has been reported when amitriptyline is administered with anticholinergic agents or with neuroleptic drugs , particularly during hot weather .
Paralytic ileus may occur in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants in combination with anticholinergic - type drugs .
Cimetidine is reported to reduce hepatic metabolism of certain tricyclic antidepressants , thereby delaying elimination and increasing steady - state concentrations of these drugs .
Clinically significant effects have been reported with the tricyclic antidepressants when used concomitantly with cimetidine .
Increases in plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressants , and in the frequency and severity of side effects , particularly anticholinergic , have been reported when cimetidine was added to the drug regimen .
Discontinuation of cimetidine in well - controlled patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants and cimetidine may decrease the plasma levels and efficacy of the antidepressants .
Caution is advised if patients receive large doses of ethchlorvynol concurrently .
Transient delirium has been reported in patients who were treated with one gram of ethchlorvynol and 75 to 150 mg of amitriptyline hydrochloride .
Geriatric Use Clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic function , concomitant disease and other drug therapy in elderly patients .
Geriatric patients are particularly sensitive to the anticholinergic side effects of tricyclic antidepressants including amitriptyline hydrochloride .
Peripheral anticholinergic effects include tachycardia , urinary retention , constipation , dry mouth , blurred vision , and exacerbation of narrow - angle glaucoma .
Central nervous system anticholinergic effects include cognitive impairment , psychomotor slowing , confusion , sedation , and delirium .
Elderly patients taking amitriptyline hydrochloride may be at increased risk for falls .
Elderly patients should be started on low doses of amitriptyline hydrochloride and observed closely ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established ( see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ) .
Anyone considering the use of amitriptyline in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Within each category the following adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Included in the listing are a few adverse reactions which have not been reported with this specific drug .
However , pharmacological similarities among the tricyclic antidepressant drugs require that each of the reactions be considered when amitriptyline is administered .
Cardiovascular : Myocardial infarction ; stroke ; nonspecific ECG changes and changes in AV conduction ; heart block ; arrhythmias ; hypotension , particularly orthostatic hypotension ; syncope ; hypertension ; tachycardia ; palpitation .
CNS and Neuromuscular : Coma ; seizures ; hallucinations ; delusions ; confusional states ; disorientation ; incoordination ; ataxia ; tremors ; peripheral neuropathy ; numbness , tingling and paresthesias of the extremities ; extrapyramidal symptoms including abnormal involuntary movements and tardive dyskinesia ; dysarthria ; disturbed concentration ; excitement ; anxiety ; insomnia ; restlessness ; nightmares ; drowsiness ; dizziness ; weakness ; fatigue ; headache ; syndrome of inappropriate ADH ( antidiuretic hormone ) secretion ; tinnitus ; alteration in EEG patterns .
Anticholinergic : Paralytic ileus , hyperpyrexia ; urinary retention , dilatation of the urinary tract ; constipation ; blurred vision , disturbance of accommodation , increased ocular pressure , mydriasis ; dry mouth .
Allergic : Skin rash ; urticaria ; photosensitization ; edema of face and tongue .
Hematologic : Bone marrow depression including agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia ; purpura ; eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal : Rarely hepatitis ( including altered liver function and jaundice ) ; nausea ; epigastric distress ; vomiting ; anorexia ; stomatitis ; peculiar taste ; diarrhea ; parotid swelling ; black tongue .
Endocrine : Testicular swelling and gynecomastia in the male ; breast enlargement and galactorrhea in the female ; increased or decreased libido ; impotence ; elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels .
Other : Alopecia ; edema ; weight gain or loss ; urinary frequency ; increased perspiration .
Withdrawal Symptoms After prolonged administration , abrupt cessation of treatment may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
Gradual dosage reduction has been reported to produce , within two weeks , transient symptoms including irritability , restlessness , and dream and sleep disturbance .
These symptoms are not indicative of addiction .
Rare instances have been reported of mania or hypomania occurring within 2 to 7 days following cessation of chronic therapy with tricyclic antidepressants .
Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions , reported under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established , are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians : Body as a Whole : Lupus - like syndrome ( migratory arthritis , positive ANA and rheumatoid factor ) .
Digestive : Hepatic failure , ageusia .
Postmarketing Adverse Events A syndrome resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) has been very rarely reported after starting or increasing the dose of amitriptyline hydrochloride , with and without concomitant medications known to cause NMS .
Symptoms have included muscle rigidity , fever , mental status changes , diaphoresis , tachycardia , and tremor .
Very rare cases of serotonin syndrome ( SS ) have been reported with amitriptyline hydrochloride in combination with other drugs that have a recognized association with SS .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate tricyclic antidepressant overdose .
As the management is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic antidepressant overdose , therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
Manifestations Critical manifestations of overdose include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression , including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic antidepressant toxicity .
In addition , a rightward axis shift in the terminal QRS complex together with a prolonged QT interval and sinus tachycardia are specific and sensitive indicators of first generation tricyclic overdose .
The absence of these findings is not exclusionary .
Prolonged PR interval , ST - T wave changes , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation may also occur .
Other signs of overdose may include : impaired myocardial contractility , confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , disorders of ocular motility , agitation , hyperactive reflexes polyradiculoneuropathy , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia , or any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Management General Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of six hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during the period extended monitoring is required .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of tricyclic antidepressant overdose should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include , large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
EMESIS IS CONTRAINDICATED .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO 2 < 20 mm Hg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricyclic antidepressant poisoning .
CNS In patients with CNS depression early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of pediatric and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral Dosage Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually , noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance .
Initial Dosage for Adults For outpatients , 75 mg of amitriptyline HCl a day in divided doses is usually satisfactory .
If necessary , this may be increased to a total of 150 mg per day .
Increases are made preferably in the late afternoon and / or bedtime doses .
A sedative effect may be apparent before the antidepressant effect is noted , but an adequate therapeutic effect may take as long as 30 days to develop .
An alternate method of initiating therapy in outpatients is to begin with 50 to 100 mg amitriptyline HCl at bedtime .
This may be increased by 25 or 50 mg as necessary in the bedtime dose to a total of 150 mg per day .
Hospitalized patients may require 100 mg a day initially .
This can be increased gradually to 200 mg a day if necessary .
A small number of hospitalized patients may need as much as 300 mg a day .
Adolescent and Elderly Patients In general , lower dosages are recommended for these patients .
Ten mg 3 times a day with 20 mg at bedtime may be satisfactory in adolescent and elderly patients who do not tolerate higher dosages .
Maintenance The usual maintenance dosage of amitriptyline HCl is 50 to 100 mg per day .
In some patients , 40 mg per day is sufficient .
For maintenance therapy , the total daily dosage may be given in a single dose , preferably at bedtime .
When satisfactory improvement has been reached , dosage should be reduced to the lowest amount that will maintain relief of symptoms .
It is appropriate to continue maintenance therapy 3 months or longer to lessen the possibility of relapse .
Usage in Pediatric Patients In view of the lack of experience with the use of this drug in pediatric patients , it is not recommended at the present time for patients under 12 years of age .
Plasma Levels Because of the wide variation in the absorption and distribution of tricyclic antidepressants in body fluids , it is difficult to directly correlate plasma levels and therapeutic effect .
However , determination of plasma levels may be useful in identifying patients who appear to have toxic effects and may have excessively high levels , or those in whom lack of absorption or noncompliance is suspected .
Because of increased intestinal transit time and decreased hepatic metabolism in elderly patients , plasma levels are generally higher for a given oral dose of amitriptyline hydrochloride than in younger patients .
Elderly patients should be monitored carefully and quantitative serum levels obtained as clinically appropriate .
Adjustments in dosage should be made according to the patient ’ s clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels .
[ 1 ] [ 1 ] Hollister , L . E . ; Monitoring Tricyclic Antidepressant Plasma Concentrations .
JAMA 1979 ; 241 ( 23 ) : 2530 - 2533 .
HOW SUPPLIED Amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets , USP for oral administration are available as : 10 mg : Round , film - coated pink tablets , debossed GG 40 on one side and plain on the reverse side , and supplied as : NDC 70934 - 331 - 30 bottles of 30 Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
METABOLISM Studies in man following oral administration of 14 C - labeled drug indicated that amitriptyline is rapidly absorbed and metabolized .
Radioactivity of the plasma was practically negligible , although significant amounts of radioactivity appeared in the urine by 4 to 6 hours and one - half to one - third of the drug was excreted within 24 hours .
Amitriptyline is metabolized by N - demethylation and bridge hydroxylation in man , rabbit , and rat .
Virtually the entire dose is excreted as glucuronide or sulfate conjugate of metabolites , with little unchanged drug appearing in the urine .
Other metabolic pathways may be involved .
REFERENCES Ayd , F . J . , Jr . : Amitriptyline therapy for depressive reactions , Psychosom .
1 : 320 - 325 , Nov . - Dec .
1960 .
Diamond , S . : Human metabolization of amitriptyline tagged with carbon 14 , Curr .
Therap .
Res .
7 : 170 - 175 , Mar . 1965 .
Dorfman , W . : Clinical experiences with amitriptyline ( A preliminary report ) , Psychosom .
1 : 153 - 155 , May - June 1960 .
Fallette , J . M . ; Stasney , C . R . ; Mintz , A . A . : Amitriptyline poisoning treated with physostigmine , S . Med .
J . 63 : 1492 - 1493 , Dec . 1970 ( in Soc .
Proc . )
.
Hollister , L . E . ; Overall , J . E . ; Johnson , M . ; Pennington , V . ; Katz , G . ; Shelton , J . : Controlled comparison of amitriptyline , imipramine and placebo in hospitalized depressed patients , J . Nerv .
andMent .
Dis .
139 : 370 - 375 , Oct . 1964 .
Hordern , A . ; Burt , C . G . ; Holt , N . F . : Depressive states .
A pharmacotherapeutic study , Springfield , Ill . , Charles C . Thomas , 1965 .
Jenike , M . A . : Treatment of Affective Illness in the Elderly with Drugs and Electroconvulsive Therapy , J . Geriatr .
Psychiatry 1989 ; 22 ( 1 ) . 77 - 112 .
Klerman , G . L . ; Cole , J . O . : Clinical pharmacology of imipramine and related antidepressant compounds , Int .
J . Psychiat .
3 : 267 - 304 , Apr . 1976 .
Liu , B . ; Anderson , C . ; Mittman , N . et al : Use of selective serotonin - reuptake inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants and risk of hip fractures in elderly people .
Lancet 1998 ; 351 ( 91 12 ) : 1303 - 1307 .
McConaghy , N . ; Joffe , A . D . ; Kingston , W . R . ; Stevenson , H . G . ; Atkinson , I . ; Cole , E . ; Fennessy , L . A . ; Correlation of clinical features of depressed outpatients with response to amitriptyline and protriptyline , Brit .
J . Psychiat .
114 : 103 - 106 , Jan . 1968 .
McDonald , I . M . ; Perkins , M . ; Marjerrison , G . ; Podilsky , M . : A controlled comparison of amitriptyline and electroconvulsive therapy in the treatment of depression , Amer .
J . Psychiat .
122 : 1427 - 1431 .
June 1966 ( in Brief Communications ) .
Slovis , T . ; Ott , J . ; Teitelbaum , D . ; Lipscomb , W . : Physostigmine therapy in acute tricyclic antidepressant poisoning , Clin .
Toxicol .
4 : 451 - 459 , Sept . 1971 .
Symposium on depression with special studies of a new antidepressant , amitriptyline , Dis .
Nerv .
Syst .
22 : 5 - 56 , May 1961 ( Sect .
2 ) .
MEDICATION GUIDE Amitriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets , USP ( am '' i trip ' tileen ) Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with you or your family member ’ s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ’ s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
• Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
• Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
• How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood • Visual problems : eye pain , changes in vision , swelling or redness in or around the eye What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Visual problems : Only some people are at risk for these problems .
You may want to undergo an eye examination to see if you are at risk and receive preventative treatment if you are .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ’ s healthcare provider for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants .
For Medication Guides , please visit www . us . sandoz . com or call 1 - 800 - 507 - 2130 .
03 - 2016 M 7339 Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Principal Display Panel NDC : 70934 - 331 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
