ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Methyl salicylate ( KP ) 5 . 541 mg , L - menthol ( KP ) , 2 . 769 mg , dl - camphor ( KP ) , 1 . 108 mg , Mentha Oil ( KP ) 0 . 693 mg , Tocopherol Acetate ( KP ) 0 . 308 mg , Diphenhydramine ( KP ) 0 . 246 mg , Vanillyl nonylamide ( In - house ) 0 . 046 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENT [ Inactive Ingredients ] Hydrogenated C6 - 20 Polyolefin , Styrene isoprene styrene block copolymer , Liquid paraffin , Polyisobutylene , Butylated hydroxytoluene , Non - woven fabric , Polyethylene terephthalate separator PURPOSE [ Purpose ] Topical Analgesic Warnings and Precautions [ Warnings and Precautions ] 1 .
Do not use to following patients 1 ) Children under 30 months 2 ) Patients with wounds or damaged skin cause by eczema or poison ivy 2 .
Use carefully when using to following patients 1 ) Patients who have a history of allergic reaction to any drug or cosmetics 2 ) Patients who are allergic or whose family is allergic 3 ) Patients with severe moistness or erosion 4 ) Patients who are under a doctor ' s cure 5 ) Infant ( Convulsions may occur ) 3 .
Side effects 1 ) Stop using and ask doctor or pharmacist if rash , redness , itching , or edema occurs .
2 ) Stop using if sometimes severe itching or pain occurs .
4 .
General Precautions 1 ) Follow the given dosage and administration .
2 ) Use under adult ' s care for children .
3 ) Stop using and ask doctor or pharmacist if there is no improvement of symptoms in 5 ~ 6 days of using .
5 .
Precautions for application 1 ) For external use only .
2 ) Use after wiping if the affected part is wet .
3 ) Do not heat the affected part with electric blanket or any .
4 ) Do not take a bath with this drug attached .
Remove it 30 min ~ 1 hour before bath .
6 .
Precautions for storage 1 ) Keep out of the reach of children .
2 ) Store in a cool place out of direct sunlight , and keep it sealed .
3 ) Avoid misuse and do not put this product in a separate container for preservation of quality .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Indications [ Indications ] Anti - inflammatory effect to following symptoms : Bruise , wrick , muscle pain , arthralgia , backache , shoulder pain , neuralgia , and rheumatic pain .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION [ Dosage and Administration ] Put the product on the affected part , one ~ several sheets daily OTHER SAFETY INFORMATION [ Description ] Coin - shaped plaster with semitransparent cohesive substance applied on non - woven fabric .
[ Storage ] Store in tight container at room temperature ( 1 ~ 30 ℃ ) [ Package ] 84 Sheets ( 42 Sheets X 2 ) [ Safe Administration ] 1 .
If attached to dry or delicate skin , use lukewarm water when removing .
2 .
If attached to sun - exposed part , you can prevent extraordinary skin reaction by covering the part with a bandage or clothes .
3 .
Avoid using it to the same part continuously to prevent skin allergy .
Stop using if itching , rash , or redness occurs .
4 .
Take care to avoid using before and after taking a sauna or hot massage .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
