Active ingredients dl - Camphor 0 . 5 % l - Menthol 0 . 4 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 8 % Purpose dl - Camphor External analgesic l - Menthol External analgesic Methyl salicylate External analgesic Uses temporary relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use ■ on irritated , broken , or damaged skin ■ on wounds ■ otherwise than as directed When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage the area tightly and do not apply local heat ( heating pads , lamps , hot water in bags or bottles ) because doing so can increase the risk of serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age ■ you experience pain , swelling , or blistering of the skin ( this product should not cause pain or skin damage ) Warning - Rare cases of serious burns have been reported to occur on the skin where OTC external analgesics were applied .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this label .
Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Strip off the polyethylene film and place adhesive pad over affected area .
■ Change pad 1 or 2 times a day ■ Not for children under 4 years .
Other Information ■ keep pouch tightly closed until ready to use ■ store at room temperature ( 20 ° to 25 ° C or 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer 940 , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dried aluminum hydroxide gel , edetate disodium , glycerin , malic acid , methacrylic acid and n - butyl acrylate copolymer , partially hydrolyzed polyvinyl alcohol , partially neutralized polyacrylate , PEG 60 hydrogenated castor oil , sorbitol , titanium dioxide , water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
