Rev 11 / 07 Rx Only DESCRIPTION Isosorbide dinitrate ( ISDN ) is 1 , 4 : 3 , 6 - dianhydro - D - glucitol 2 , 5 - dinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and whose molecular weight is 236 . 14 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
ISDN is a white , crystalline , odorless compound which is stable in air and in solution , has a melting point of 70 ° C and has an optical rotation of + 134 ° ( c = 1 . 0 , alcohol .
20 ° C ) .
ISDN is freely soluble in organic solvents such as acetone , alcohol , and ether , but is only sparingly soluble in water .
Each isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablet contains 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg of ISDN .
Inactive ingredients are as follows : 2 . 5 mg Sublingual : Ammonium phosphate dibasic , anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , D & C Yellow No . 10 Lake , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate .
5 mg Sublingual : Ammonium phosphate dibasic , anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of ISDN is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular lesistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were no more effective than placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their anti - anginal efficacy been restored .
Pharmacokinetics Bioavailability of ISDN after single sublingual doses is 40 to 50 % .
Multiple - dose studies of sublingual ISDN pharmacokinetics have not been reported ; multiple - dose studies of ingested ISDN have observed progressive increases in bioavailability during chronic therapy .
Serum levels of ISDN reach their maxima 10 to 15 minutes after sublingual dosing .
Once absorbed , the distribution volume of ISDN is 2 to 4 L / kg , and this volume is cleared at the rate of 2 to 4 L / min , so ISDN ' s half - life in serum is about an hour .
Since the clearance exceeds hepatic blood flow , considerable extrahepatic metabolism must also occur .
Clearance is affected primarily by denitration to the 2 - mononitrate ( 15 to 25 % ) and the 5 - mononitrate ( 75 to 85 % ) .
Both metabolites have biological activity , especially the 5 - mononitrate .
With an overall half - life of about 5 hours , the 5 - mononitrate is cleared from the serum by denitration to isosorbide ; glucuronidation to the 5 - mononitrate glucuronide ; and denitration / hydration to sorbitol .
The 2 - mononitrate has been less well studied , but it appears to participate in the same metabolic pathways , with a half - life of about 2 hours .
The daily dose - free interval sufficient to avoid tolerance to organic nitrates has not been well defined .
Studies of nitroglycerin ( an organic nitrate with a very short half - life ) have shown that daily dose - free intervals of 10 to 12 hours are usually sufficient to minimize tolerance .
Daily dose - free intervals that have succeeded in avoiding tolerance during trials of moderate doses ( e . g . , 30 mg ) of immediate - release ISDN have generally been somewhat longer ( at least 14 hours ) , but this is consistent with the longer half - lives of ISDN and its active metabolites .
Few well - controlled clinical trials of organic nitrates have been designed to detect rebound or withdrawal effects .
In one such trial , however , subjects receiving nitroglycerin had less exercise tolerance at the end of the daily dose - fiee interval than the parallel group receiving placebo .
The incidence , magnitude , and clinical significance of similar phenomena in patients receiving ISDN have not been studied .
Clinical trials In a controlled trial in which 0 . 4 mg of sublingual nitroglycerin took 1 . 9 minutes to begin to produce an anti - anginal effect , 5 mg of sublingual ISDN took 3 . 4 minutes to begin to produce a similar effect .
In the same trial , the anti - anginal effect of the sublingual nitroglycerin was evident for about an hour , while that of the sublingual ISDN lasted about 2 hours .
In other controlled trials , the anti - anginal efficacy of sublingual ISDN has persisted for periods ranging from 30 minutes up to 4 hours .
Multiple - dose trials of sublingual ISDN have not been reported .
Multiple - dose trials of ingested formulations of ISDN have shown that ISDN ' s anti - anginal efficacy is substantially attenuated by tolerance unless the daily regimen includes a dose - free interval of at least 14 hours .
The daily dose - free interval necessary in any chronic regimen using sublingual ISDN is not known .
From large , well - controlled studies of other nitrates , it is reasonable to believe that the maximal achievable daily duration of anti - anginal effect from ISDN is about 12 hours .
No dosing regimen for ISDN has , however , ever actually been shown to achieve this duration of effect .
In the absence of data from multiple - dose trials , and considering the capacity of organic nitrates to induce tolerance , it is not reasonable to assume that multiple sublingual ISDN tablets taken during the course of a day will all have similar effects .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablets are indicated for the prevention and treatment of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
However , because the onset of action of sublingual ISDN is significantly slower than that of sublingual nitroglycerin , sublingual ISDN is not the drug of first choice for abortion of an acute anginal episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
The isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablet is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to ISDN or any of its other ingredients .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of isosorbide dinitrate by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of sublingual ISDN in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use ISDN in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of ISDN .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by ISDN may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to ISDN develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is somewhat blunted .
Some clinical trials in angina patients have provided nitroglycerin for about 12 continuous hours of every 24 - hour day .
During the daily dose - free interval in some of these trials , anginal attacks have been more easily provoked than before treatment , and patients have demonstrated hemodynamic rebound and decreased exercise tolerance .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of sublingual ISDN is not known .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Information for Patients Patients should be told that the anti - anginal efficacy of ISDN is strongly related to its dosing regimen , so the prescribed schedule of dosing should be followed carefully .
In particular , daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with ISDN .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with ISDN , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of anti - anginal efficacy .
Aspirin and / or acetaminophen , on the other hand , often successfully relieve ISDN - induced headaches with no deleterious effect on ISDN ' S anti - anginal efficacy .
Treatment with ISDN may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Drug Interactions The vasodilating effects of ISDN may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Carcinogenesis .
Mutagenesis .
Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ISDN .
In a modified two - litter reproduction study , there was no remarkable gross pathology and no altered fertility or gestation among rats fed ISDN at 25 or 100 mg / kg / day .
Pregnancy Category C At oral doses 35 and 150 times the maximum recommended human daily dose .
ISDN has been shown to cause a dose - related increase in embryotoxicity ( increase in mummified pups ) in rabbits .
There are no adequate , well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ISDN should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ISDN is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ISDN is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of sublingual ISDN did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to ISDN are generally dose - related , and almost all of these reactions are the result of ISDN ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients .
Methemoglobinemia is so infrequent at these doses that further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment is deferred ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Data are not available to allow estimation of the frequency of adverse reactions during treatment of isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablets .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects The ill effects of ISDN overdose are generally the results of ISDN ' s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations : visual disturbances : nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of ISDN and it metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of ISDN overdose .
There are no data suggesting what dose of ISDN is likely to be life - threatening in humans .
In rats , the median acute lethal dose ( LD50 ) was found to be 1100 mg / kg .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of ISDN and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which , if any , of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of ISDN is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled studies as a therapy for ISDN overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with ISDN overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of ISDN overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of ISDN can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of ISDN are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of ISDN should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of ISDN .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr ( equivalent , in total administered dose of nitrate ions , to 4 . 8 to 6 . 9 mg of bioavailable ISDN per hour ) , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As noted under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , multiple studies with ISDN and other nitrates have shown that maintenance of continuous 24 - hour plasma levels results in refractory tolerance .
Every dosing regimen for ISDN must provide a daily dose - free interval to minimize the development of this tolerance .
In the case of sublingual tablets , it is probably true that one of the daily dose - free intervals must be somewhat longer than 14 hours .
As also noted under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , the efficacy of daily doses after the first has never been demonstrated .
Large controlled studies with other nitrates suggest that no dosing regimen with Isosorbide Dinitrate Sublingual Tablets should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous anti - anginal efficacy per day .
A patient anticipating activity likely to cause angina should take one isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablet ( 2 . 5 to 5 mg ) about 15 minutes before the activity is expected to begin .
Isosorbide dinitrate sublingual tablets may be used to abort an acute anginal episode , but its use is recommended only in patients who fail to respond to sublingual nitroglycerin .
HOW SUPPLIED Isosorbide Dinitrate Sublingual Tablets USP 2 . 5 mg : Yellow , round , compressed tablet imprinted " W1 " .
• Bottles of 100 tablets .
• Bottles of 1000 tablets .
• Unit Dose Boxes of 100 tablets .
Isosorbide Dinitrate Sublingual Tablets USP 5 mg : White , round , compressed tablet engraved with " W3 " .
• Bottles of 100 tablets .
• Bottles of 1000 tablets .
• Unit Dose Boxes of 100 tablets .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Also available : Isosorbide Dinitrate Oral Tablets in the following dosage strengths : 5 mg ; in bottles of 100 , 500 , 1000 or unit dose boxes of 100 tablets .
10 mg ; in bottles of 100 , 500 , 1000 or unit dose boxes of 100 tablets .
20 mg ; in bottles of 100 , 1000 or unit dose boxes of 100 tablets .
Manufactured by : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised November 2007 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Isosorbide Dinitrate Sublingual Tablets , USP NDC 0143 - 1765 - 01 2 . 5 mg / 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Isosorbide Dinitrate Subligual Tablets , USP NDC 0143 - 1767 - 01 5 mg / 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
