Tamper Evident : Do not use if the heat seal at the top of the package is improperly or not fully sealed .
Active ingredient Magnesium Sulfate Purpose Laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces a bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Do no use • if you have kidney disease unless directed by a doctor • when abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting are present unless directed by a doctor • for more than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Take this product two or more hours before or after other drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a help professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions • Drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose .
• The dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses .
• 1 teaspoon equals 5 grams .
Adults and children 12 years and over - Oral dosage is 10 to 30 grams children 6 to under 12 years of age - Oral dosage is 5 to 10 grams children 2 to under 6 years of age - Oral dosage is 2 . 5 to 5 grams children under 2 years of age - consult a doctor Other information • Magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredients none Questions Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 Side panel information Store in cool , dry place out of direct sunlight .
Package sold by weight not volume , some settling of contents may occur during shipment .
If caking occurs , tap pouch gently to free granules .
ROYAL Distributed by : Filo America Inc .
Vernon , CA 90058 United States Made in China Principal display panel Royal Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate Saline Laxative Plain NET WT .
4 lbs ( 1 . 8 kg ) Distributed by : Filo America Inc .
Vernon , CA 90058 United States Made in China NET WT .
4 lbs ( 1 . 8 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
