[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate , is a beta - adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of : • Hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
( 1 . 1 ) • Angina Pectoris .
( 1 . 2 ) • Heart Failure , to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including metoprolol .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
1 . 2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are indicated in the long - term treatment of angina pectoris , to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance .
1 . 3 Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart - failure hospitalization in patients with heart failure .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily .
Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated .
( 2 ) • Hypertension : Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg .
( 2 . 1 ) • Angina Pectoris : Starting dose is 100 mg .
( 2 . 2 ) • Heart Failure : Starting dose is 12 . 5 or 25 mg .
( 2 . 3 ) • Switching from immediate - release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets : use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Hypertension Adults : The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose .
Adjust dosage at weekly ( or longer ) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved .
In general , the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after 1 week of therapy .
Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied .
PediatricHypertensivePatients ≥ 6 Yearsofage : A pediatric clinical hypertension study in patients 6 to 16 years of age did not meet its primary endpoint ( dose response for reduction in SBP ) ; however some other endpoints demonstrated effectiveness [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
If selected for treatment , the recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate is 1 mg / kg once daily , but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily .
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response .
Doses above 2 mg / kg ( or in excess of 200 mg ) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Metoprolol succinate has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 Angina Pectoris Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate .
The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily , given in a single dose .
Gradually increase the dosage at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is a pronounced slowing of the heart rate .
Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied .
If treatment is to be discontinued , reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
2 . 3 Heart Failure Dosage must be individualized and closely monitored during up - titration .
Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate , stabilize the dose of other heart failure drug therapy .
The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12 . 5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure .
Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate .
Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate .
If patients experience symptomatic bradycardia , reduce the dose of metoprolol succinate .
If transient worsening of heart failure occurs , consider treating with increased doses of diuretics , lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate or temporarily discontinuing it .
The dose of metoprolol succinate should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized .
2 . 4 Administration Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are scored and can be divided ; however , do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets ( metoprolol succinate ) : 25 mg , 50 mg , 100 mg and 200 mg .
( 3 ) 25 mg tablets : White to off - white color , oval shaped , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 564 " on one side and break line on the other side .
50 mg tablets : White to off - white color , round shaped , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 565 " on one side and break line on the other side .
100 mg tablets : White to off - white color , round shaped , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 566 " on one side and break line on other side .
200 mg tablets : White to off - white color , oval shaped , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 5 " and " 67 " on either side of break line and plain on the other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to product components .
( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia : Greater than first degree heart block , or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker .
( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure .
( 4 ) Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia , second or third degree heart block , cardiogenic shock , decompensated heart failure , sick sinus syndrome ( unless a permanent pacemaker is in place ) , and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Abrupt cessation may exacerbate myocardial ischemia .
( 5 . 1 ) • Heart Failure : Worsening cardiac failure may occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Bronchospastic Disease : Avoid beta blockers .
( 5 . 3 ) • Concomitant use of glycosides , clonidine , and diltiazem and verapamil with beta - blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia .
( 5 . 4 ) • Pheochromocytoma : Initiate therapy with an alpha blocker .
( 5 . 5 ) • Major Surgery : Avoid initiation of high - dose extended - release metoprolol in patients undergoing non - cardiac surgery .
Do not routinely withdraw chronic beta blocker therapy prior to surgery .
( 5 . 6 , 6 . 1 ) • Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : May mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia .
( 5 . 7 ) • Thyrotoxicosis : Abrupt withdrawal in patients with thyrotoxicosis might precipitate a thyroid storm .
( 5 . 8 ) • Peripheral Vascular Disease : Can aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency .
( 5 . 9 ) • Patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Abrupt Cessation of Therapy Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents , exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred .
When discontinuing chronically administered metoprolol succinate , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , gradually reduce the dosage over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and monitor the patient .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary ischemia develops , promptly reinstate metoprolol succinate , and take measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina .
Warn patients not to interrupt therapy without their physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , avoid abruptly discontinuing metoprolol succinate in patients treated only for hypertension .
5 . 2 Heart Failure Worsening cardiac failure may occur during up - titration of metoprolol succinate .
If such symptoms occur , increase diuretics and restore clinical stability before advancing the dose of metoprolol succinate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
It may be necessary to lower the dose of metoprolol succinate or temporarily discontinue it .
Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of metoprolol succinate .
5 . 3 Bronchospastic Disease Patients with bronchospastic diseases should , in general , not receive beta - blockers .
Because of its relative beta1 cardio - selectivity , however , metoprolol succinate may be used in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Because beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , use the lowest possible dose of metoprolol succinate .
Bronchodilators , including beta2 - agonists , should be readily available or administered concomitantly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Bradycardia Bradycardia , including sinus pause , heart block , and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of metoprolol succinate .
Patients with first - degree atrioventricular block , sinus node dysfunction , conduction disorders ( including Wolff - Parkinson - White ) or on concomitant drugs that cause bradycardia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] , may be at increased risk .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving metoprolol succinate .
If severe bradycardia develops , reduce or stop metoprolol succinate .
5 . 5 Pheochromocytoma If metoprolol succinate is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma , it should be given in combination with an alpha blocker , and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated .
Administration of beta - blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure due to the attenuation of beta - mediated vasodilatation in skeletal muscle .
5 . 6 Major Surgery Avoid initiation of a high - dose regimen of extended - release metoprolol in patients undergoing non - cardiac surgery , since such use in patients with cardiovascular risk factors has been associated with bradycardia , hypotension , stroke and death .
Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery , however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
5 . 7 Mask Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Consider initiating metoprolol succinate therapy at doses lower than those recommended for a given indication ; gradually increase dosage to optimize therapy , while monitoring closely for adverse events .
5 . 8 Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs of hyperthyroidism , such as tachycardia .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade may precipitate a thyroid storm .
5 . 9 Peripheral Vascular Disease While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge and may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat an allergic reaction .
5 . 10 Anaphylactic Reaction Beta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Most common adverse reactions : tiredness , dizziness , depression , shortness of breath , bradycardia , hypotension , diarrhea , pruritus , rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Worsening angina or myocardial infarction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
• Worsening heart failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
• Worsening AV block [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Hypertension and Angina : Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient .
The most common ( > 2 % ) adverse reactions are tiredness , dizziness , depression , diarrhea , shortness of breath , bradycardia , and rash .
Heart Failure : In the MERIT - HF study comparing metoprolol succinate in daily doses up to 200 mg ( mean dose 159 mg once - daily ; n = 1990 ) to placebo ( n = 2001 ) , 10 . 3 % of metoprolol succinate patients discontinued for adverse reactions vs . 12 . 2 % of placebo patients .
The table below lists adverse reactions in the MERIT - HF study that occurred at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in the metoprolol succinate group and greater than placebo by more than 0 . 5 % , regardless of the assessment of causality .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in the MERIT - HF Study at an Incidence ≥ 1 % in the Metoprolol Succinate Group and Greater Than Placebo by More Than 0 . 5 % Metoprolol Succinate n = 1990 % of patients Placebo n = 2001 % of patients Dizziness / vertigo 1 . 8 1 Bradycardia 1 . 5 0 . 4 Post - operative Adverse Events : In a randomized , double blind , placebo - controlled trial of 8351 patients with or at risk for atherosclerotic disease undergoing non - vascular surgery and who were not taking beta – blocker therapy , metoprolol succinate 100 mg was started 2 to 4 hours prior to surgery then continued for 30 days at 200 mg per day .
Metoprolol succinate use was associated with a higher incidence of bradycardia ( 6 . 6 % vs 2 . 4 % ; HR 2 . 74 ; 95 % CI 2 . 19 , 3 . 43 ) , hypotension ( 15 % vs . 9 . 7 % ; HR 1 . 55 ; 95 % CI 1 . 37 , 1 . 74 ) , stroke ( 1 % vs 0 . 5 % ; HR 2 . 17 ; 95 % CI 1 . 26 , 3 . 74 ) and death ( 3 . 1 % vs 2 . 3 % ; HR 1 . 33 ; 95 % CI 1 . 03 , 1 . 74 ) compared to placebo .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets or immediate - release metoprolol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : Cold extremities , arterial insufficiency ( usually of the Raynaud type ) , palpitations , peripheral edema , syncope , chest pain and hypotension .
Respiratory : Wheezing ( bronchospasm ) , dyspnea .
CentralNervousSystem : Confusion , short - term memory loss , headache , somnolence , nightmares , insomnia , anxiety / nervousness , hallucinations , paresthesia .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , dry mouth , constipation , flatulence , heartburn , hepatitis , vomiting .
HypersensitiveReactions : Pruritus .
Miscellaneous : Musculoskeletal pain , arthralgia , blurred vision , decreased libido , male impotence , tinnitus , reversible alopecia , agranulocytosis , dry eyes , worsening of psoriasis , Peyronie ' s disease , sweating , photosensitivity , taste disturbance .
Potential Adverse Reactions : In addition , there are adverse reactions not listed above that have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse reactions to metoprolol succinate .
CentralNervousSystem : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
HypersensitiveReactions : Laryngospasm , respiratory distress .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Catecholamine - depleting drugs may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration .
( 7 . 2 ) • Beta - blockers including metoprolol , may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Observe patients treated with metoprolol succinate plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
7 . 2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , and propafenone were shown to double metoprolol concentrations .
While there is no information about moderate or weak inhibitors , these too are likely to increase metoprolol concentration .
Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients closely , when the combination cannot be avoided .
7 . 3 Digitalis , Clonidine , and Calcium Channel Blockers Digitalis glycosides , clonidine , diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use with beta blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia .
If clonidine and a beta blocker , such as metoprolol are coadministered , withdraw the beta - blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta - blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
If replacing clonidine by beta - blocker therapy , delay the introduction of beta - blockers for several days after clonidine administration has stopped .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Impairment : Consider initiating metoprolol succinate therapy at low doses and gradually increase dosage to optimize therapy , while monitoring closely for adverse events .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Untreated hypertension and heart failure during pregnancy can lead to adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Available data from published observational studies have not demonstrated a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with metoprolol use during pregnancy .
However , there are inconsistent reports of intrauterine growth restriction , preterm birth , and perinatal mortality with maternal use of beta blockers , including metoprolol , during pregnancy ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , metoprolol has been shown to increase post - implantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at oral dosages of 500 mg / kg / day , approximately 24 times the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient on a mg / m2 basis .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical consideration Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Stroke volume and heart rate increase during pregnancy , increasing cardiac output , especially during the first trimester .
There is a risk for preterm birth with pregnant women with chronic heart failure in 3 rd trimester of pregnancy .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Metoprolol crosses the placenta .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving metoprolol during pregnancy , may be at risk for hypotension , hypoglycemia , bradycardia , and respiratory depression .
Observe neonates and manage accordingly .
Data Human Data Data from published observational studies did not demonstrate an association of major congenital malformations and use of metoprolol in pregnancy .
The published literature has reported inconsistent findings of intrauterine growth retardation , preterm birth and perinatal mortality with maternal use of metoprolol during pregnancy ; however , these studies have methodological limitations hindering interpretation .
Methodological limitations include retrospective design , concomitant use of other medications , and other unadjusted confounders that may account for the study findings including the underlying disease in the mother .
These observational studies cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug - associated risk during pregnancy .
Animal Data Metoprolol has been shown to increase post - implantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at oral dosages of 500 mg / kg / day , i . e . , 24 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
No fetal abnormalities were observed when pregnant rats received metoprolol orally up to a dose of 200 mg / kg / day , i . e . , 10 times , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited available data from published literature report that metoprolol is present in human milk .
The estimated daily infant dose of metoprolol received from breastmilk ranges from 0 . 05 mg to less than 1 mg .
The estimated relative infant dosage was 0 . 5 % to 2 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage ( see Data ) .
No adverse reactions of metoprolol on the breastfed infant have been identified .
There is no information regarding the effects of metoprolol on milk production .
Clinical consideration Monitoring for adverse reactions Monitor the breastfed infant for bradycardia and other symptoms of beta blockade such as listlessness ( hypoglycemia ) .
Data Based on published case reports , the estimated infant daily dose of metoprolol received from breast milk range from 0 . 05 mg to less than 1 mg .
The estimated relative infant dosage was 0 . 5 % to 2 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage .
In two women who were taking unspecified amount of metoprolol , milk samples were taken after one dose of metoprolol .
The estimated amount of metoprolol and alpha hydroxy metoprolol in breast milk is reported to be less than 2 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage .
In a small study , breast milk was collected every 2 to 3 hours over one dosage interval , in three mothers ( at least 3 months postpartum ) who took metoprolol of unspecified amount .
The average amount of metoprolol present in breast milk was 71 . 5 mcg / day ( range 17 to 158 . 7 ) .
The average relative infant dosage was 0 . 5 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Risk Summary Based on the published literature , beta blockers ( including metoprolol ) may cause erectile dysfunction and inhibit sperm motility .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol was observed in rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use One hundred forty - four hypertensive pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years were randomized to placebo or to one of three dose levels of metoprolol succinate ( 0 . 2 , 1 or 2 mg / kg once daily ) and followed for 4 weeks .
The study did not meet its primary endpoint ( dose response for reduction in SBP ) .
Some pre - specified secondary endpoints demonstrated effectiveness including : • Dose - response for reduction in DBP , • 1 mg / kg vs . placebo for change in SBP , and • 2 mg / kg vs . placebo for change in SBP and DBP .
The mean placebo corrected reductions in SBP ranged from 3 to 6 mmHg , and DBP from 1 to 5 mmHg .
Mean reduction in heart rate ranged from 5 to 7 bpm but considerably greater reductions were seen in some individuals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
No clinically relevant differences in the adverse event profile were observed for pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years as compared with adult patients .
Safety and effectiveness of metoprolol succinate have not been established in patients < 6 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoprolol succinate in hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience in hypertensive patients has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
Of the 1 , 990 patients with heart failure randomized to metoprolol succinate in the MERIT - HF trial , 50 % ( 990 ) were 65 years of age and older and 12 % ( 238 ) were 75 years of age and older .
There were no notable differences in efficacy or the rate of adverse reactions between older and younger patients .
In general , use a low initial starting dose in elderly patients given their greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been performed with metoprolol succinate in patients with hepatic impairment .
Because metoprolol succinate is metabolized by the liver , metoprolol blood levels are likely to increase substantially with poor hepatic function .
Therefore , initiate therapy at doses lower than those recommended for a given indication ; and increase doses gradually in patients with impaired hepatic function .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The systemic availability and half - life of metoprolol in patients with renal failure do not differ to a clinically significant degree from those in normal subjects .
No reduction in dosage is needed in patients with chronic renal failure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms - Overdosage of metoprolol succinate may lead to severe bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiogenic shock .
Clinical presentation can also include : atrioventricular block , heart failure , bronchospasm , hypoxia , impairment of consciousness / coma , nausea and vomiting .
Treatment – Consider treating the patient with intensive care .
Patients with myocardial infarction or heart failure may be prone to significant hemodynamic instability .
Beta - blocker overdose may result in significant resistance to resuscitation with adrenergic agents , including beta - agonists .
On the basis of the pharmacologic actions of metoprolol , employ the following measures .
Hemodialysis is unlikely to make a useful contribution to metoprolol elimination [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Bradycardia : Evaluate the need for atropine , adrenergic - stimulating drugs or pacemaker to treat bradycardia and conduction disorders .
Hypotension : Treat underlying bradycardia .
Consider intravenous vasopressor infusion , such as dopamine or norepinephrine .
Heart failure and shock : May be treated when appropriate with suitable volume expansion , injection of glucagon ( if necessary , followed by an intravenous infusion of glucagon ) , intravenous administration of adrenergic drugs such as dobutamine , with α1 receptor agonistic drugs added in presence of vasodilation .
Bronchospasm : Can usually be reversed by bronchodilators .
11 DESCRIPTION Metoprolol succinate , is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent , for oral administration , available as extended release tablets .
Metoprolol succinate has been formulated to provide a controlled and predictable release of metoprolol for once - daily administration .
The tablets comprise a multiple unit system containing metoprolol succinate in a multitude of controlled release pellets .
Each pellet acts as a separate drug delivery unit and is designed to deliver metoprolol continuously over the dosage interval .
The tablets contain 23 . 75 , 47 . 5 , 95 and 190 mg of metoprolol succinate equivalent to 25 , 50 , 100 and 200 mg of metoprolol tartrate , respectively .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) 1 - ( isopropylamino ) - 3 - [ p - ( 2 - methoxyethyl ) phenoxy ] - 2 - propanol succinate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoprolol succinate , USP is a white to off white powder with a molecular weight of 652 . 8 .
It is freely soluble in water ; soluble in methanol ; sparingly soluble in alcohol and slightly soluble in isopropyl alcohol .
Each metoprolol succinate extended - release tablet intended for oral administration contains metoprolol succinate equivalent to 25 mg , 50 mg , 100 mg or 200 mg of metoprolol tartrate .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , ethyl cellulose , glycerin , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone and talc .
Additionally , each metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets contain opadry II white 03B28796 which contains hypromellose , polyethylene glycol and titanium dioxide .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 4 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metoprolol is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
This preferential effect is not absolute , however , and at higher plasma concentrations , metoprolol also inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Metoprolol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , and membrane - stabilizing activity is detectable only at plasma concentrations much greater than required for beta - blockade .
Animal and human experiments indicate that metoprolol slows the sinus rate and decreases AV nodal conduction .
The relative beta1 - selectivity of metoprolol has been confirmed by the following : ( 1 ) In normal subjects , metoprolol is unable to reverse the beta2 - mediated vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
This contrasts with the effect of nonselective beta - blockers , which completely reverse the vasodilating effects of epinephrine .
( 2 ) In asthmatic patients , metoprolol reduces FEV1 and FVC significantly less than a nonselective beta - blocker , propranolol , at equivalent beta1 - receptor blocking doses .
Hypertension : The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents has not been elucidated .
However , several possible mechanisms have been proposed : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output ; ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery ; and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
Angina Pectoris : By blocking catecholamine - induced increases in heart rate , in velocity and extent of myocardial contraction , and in blood pressure , metoprolol reduces the oxygen requirements of the heart at any given level of effort , thus making it useful in the long - term management of angina pectoris .
Heart Failure : The precise mechanism for the beneficial effects of beta - blockers in heart failure has not been elucidated .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed the beta - blocking activity of metoprolol in man , as shown by ( 1 ) reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest and upon exercise , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic blood pressure upon exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
The relationship between plasma metoprolol levels and reduction in exercise heart rate is independent of the pharmaceutical formulation .
Beta1 - blocking effects in the range of 30 to 80 % of the maximal effect ( approximately 8 to 23 % reduction in exercise heart rate ) correspond to metoprolol plasma concentrations from 30 to 540 nmol / L .
The relative beta1 - selectivity of metoprolol diminishes and blockade of beta2 - adrenoceptors increases at plasma concentration above 300 nmol / L .
In five controlled studies in normal healthy subjects , extended - release metoprolol succinate administered once a day , and immediate - release metoprolol administered once to four times a day , provided comparable total beta1 - blockade over 24 hours ( area under the beta1 - blockade versus time curve ) in the dose range 100 to 400 mg .
In another controlled study , 50 mg once daily for each product , extended - release metoprolol succinate produced significantly higher total beta1 - blockade over 24 hours than immediate - release metoprolol .
For extended - release metoprolol succinate , the percent reduction in exercise heart rate was relatively stable throughout the entire dosage interval and the level of beta1 - blockade increased with increasing doses from 50 to 300 mg daily .
A controlled cross - over study in heart failure patients compared the plasma concentrations and beta1 - blocking effects of 50 mg immediate - release metoprolol administered t . i . d . , and 100 mg and 200 mg extended - release metoprolol succinate once daily .
Extended - release metoprolol succinate 200 mg once daily produced a larger effect on suppression of exercise - induced and Holter - monitored heart rate over 24 hours compared to 50 mg t . i . d . of immediate - release metoprolol .
In other studies , treatment with metoprolol succinate produced an improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction .
Metoprolol succinate was also shown to delay the increase in left ventricular end - systolic and end - diastolic volumes after 6 months of treatment .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in the treatment of angina , hypertension , and heart failure there are situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
In patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
In the presence of AV block , beta - blockade may prevent the necessary facilitating effect of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The peak plasma levels following once - daily administration of metoprolol succinate average one - fourth to one - half the peak plasma levels obtained following a corresponding dose of conventional metoprolol , administered once daily or in divided doses .
At steady state the average bioavailability of metoprolol following administration of metoprolol succinate , across the dosage range of 50 to 400 mg once daily , was 77 % relative to the corresponding single or divided doses of conventional metoprolol .
The bioavailability of metoprolol shows a dose - related , although not directly proportional , increase with dose and is not significantly affected by food following metoprolol succinate administration .
The peak plasma levels following oral administration of conventional metoprolol tablets , however , approximate 50 % of levels following intravenous administration , indicating about 50 % first - pass metabolism .
Distribution Metoprolol crosses the blood - brain barrier and has been reported in the CSF in a concentration 78 % of the simultaneous plasma concentration .
Only a small fraction of the drug ( about 12 % ) is bound to human serum albumin .
Metabolism Metoprolol is a racemic mixture of R - and S - enantiomers , and is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 .
When administered orally , it exhibits stereoselective metabolism that is dependent on oxidation phenotype .
Elimination Elimination is mainly by biotransformation in the liver , and the plasma half - life ranges from approximately 3 to 7 hours .
Less than 5 % of an oral dose of metoprolol is recovered unchanged in the urine ; the rest is excreted by the kidneys as metabolites that appear to have no beta - blocking activity .
Following intravenous administration of metoprolol , the urinary recovery of unchanged drug is approximately 10 % .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment The systemic availability and half - life of metoprolol in patients with renal failure do not differ to a clinically significant degree from those in normal subjects .
Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetic profile of metoprolol succinate was studied in 120 pediatric hypertensive patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) receiving doses ranging from 12 . 5 to 200 mg once daily .
The pharmacokinetics of metoprolol were similar to those described previously in adults .
Metoprolol pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in patients < 6 years of age .
Body Weight , Age , and Race Metoprolol apparent oral clearance ( CL / F ) increased linearly with body weight .
Age , gender , and race had no significant effects on metoprolol pharmacokinetics .
Drug Interactions CYP2D6 Metoprolol is metabolized predominantly by CYP2D6 .
In healthy subjects with CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer phenotype , coadministration of quinidine 100 mg , a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor , and immediate - release metoprolol 200 mg tripled the concentration of S - metoprolol and doubled the metoprolol elimination half - life .
In four patients with cardiovascular disease , coadministration of propafenone 150 mg t . i . d . with immediate release metoprolol 50 mg t . i . d . resulted in steady - state concentration of metoprolol 2 - to 5 - fold what is seen with metoprolol alone .
Extensive metabolizers who concomitantly use CYP2D6 inhibiting drugs will have increased ( several - fold ) metoprolol blood levels , decreasing metoprolol ' s cardioselectivity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2D6 is absent in about 8 % of Caucasians ( poor metabolizers ) and about 2 % of most other populations .
CYP2D6 can be inhibited by several drugs .
Poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 will have increased ( several - fold ) metoprolol blood levels , decreasing metoprolol ' s cardioselectivity .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of metoprolol tartrate .
In 2 - year studies in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg / kg / day ( 41 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type .
The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia .
In a 21 - month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg / kg / day ( 18 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , benign lung tumors ( small adenomas ) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals .
There was no increase in malignant or total ( benign plus malignant ) lung tumors , nor in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors .
This 21 - month study was repeated in CD - 1 mice , and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor .
All genotoxicity tests performed on metoprolol tartrate ( a dominant lethal study in mice , chromosome studies in somatic cells , a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test , and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei ) and metoprolol succinate ( a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test ) were negative .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol tartrate was observed in a study performed in rats at doses up to 22 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension In a double blind study , 1092 patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension were randomized to once daily metoprolol succinate extended release tablets ( 25 , 100 , or 400 mg ) , felodipine extended - release tablets , the combination , or placebo .
After 9 weeks , metoprolol succinate alone decreased sitting blood pressure by 6 to 8 / 4 to 7 mmHg ( placebo - corrected change from baseline ) at 24 hours post - dose .
The combination of metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets with felodipine extended - release tablets has greater effects on blood pressure .
In controlled clinical studies , an immediate - release dosage form of metoprolol was an effective antihypertensive agent when used alone or as concomitant therapy with thiazide - type diuretics at dosages of 100 to 450 mg daily .
Metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets , in dosages of 100 to 400 mg once daily , produces similar β1 - blockade as conventional metoprolol tablets administered two to four times daily .
In addition , metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets administered at a dose of 50 mg once daily lowered blood pressure 24 - hours post - dosing in placebo - controlled studies .
In controlled , comparative , clinical studies , immediate - release metoprolol appeared comparable as an antihypertensive agent to propranolol , methyldopa , and thiazide - type diuretics , and affected both supine and standing blood pressure .
Because of variable plasma levels attained with a given dose and lack of a consistent relationship of antihypertensive activity to drug plasma concentration , selection of proper dosage requires individual titration .
14 . 2 Angina Pectoris In controlled clinical trials , an immediate - release formulation of metoprolol has been shown to be an effective antianginal agent , reducing the number of angina attacks and increasing exercise tolerance .
The dosage used in these studies ranged from 100 to 400 mg daily .
Metoprolol succinate , in dosages of 100 to 400 mg once daily , has been shown to possess beta - blockade similar to conventional metoprolol tablets administered two to four times daily .
14 . 3 Heart Failure MERIT - HF was a randomized double blind , placebo - controlled study of metoprolol succinate in which 3991 patients with ejection fraction ≤ 0 . 40 and NYHA Class II - IV heart failure attributable to ischemia , hypertension , or cardiomyopathy were randomized 1 : 1 to metoprolol succinate or placebo .
The protocol excluded patients with contraindications to beta - blocker use , those expected to undergo heart surgery , and those within 28 days of myocardial infarction or unstable angina .
The primary endpoints of the trial were ( 1 ) all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization ( time to first event ) and ( 2 ) all - cause mortality .
Patients were stabilized on optimal concomitant therapy for heart failure , including diuretics , ACE inhibitors , cardiac glycosides , and nitrates .
At randomization , 41 % of patients were NYHA Class II ; 55 % NYHA Class III ; 65 % of patients had heart failure attributed to ischemic heart disease ; 44 % had a history of hypertension ; 25 % had diabetes mellitus ; 48 % had a history of myocardial infarction .
Among patients in the trial , 90 % were on diuretics , 89 % were on ACE inhibitors , 64 % were on digitalis , 27 % were on a lipid - lowering agent , 37 % were on an oral anticoagulant , and the mean ejection fraction was 0 . 28 .
The mean duration of follow - up was one year .
At the end of the study , the mean daily dose of metoprolol succinate was 159 mg .
The trial was terminated early for a statistically significant reduction in all - cause mortality ( 34 % , nominal p = 0 . 00009 ) .
The risk of all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization was reduced by 19 % ( p = 0 . 00012 ) .
The trial also showed improvements in heart failure - related mortality and heart failure - related hospitalizations , and NYHA functional class .
The table below shows the principal results for the overall study population .
The figure below illustrates principal results for a wide variety of subgroup comparisons , including US vs . non - US populations ( the latter of which was not pre - specified ) .
The combined endpoints of all - cause mortality plus all - cause hospitalization and of mortality plus heart failure hospitalization showed consistent effects in the overall study population and the subgroups .
Nonetheless , subgroup analyses can be difficult to interpret , and it is not known whether these represent true differences or chance effects .
Clinical Endpoints in the MERIT - HF StudyClinical Endpoint Number of Patients Relative Risk ( 95 % Cl ) Risk Reduction With Metoprolol Succinate Nominal P - value Placebo n = 2001 Metoprolol Succinate n = 1990 All - cause mortality plus all - caused hospitalization [ 1 ] 767 641 0 . 81 ( 0 . 73 to 0 . 90 ) 19 % 0 . 00012 All - cause mortality 217 145 0 . 66 ( 0 . 53 to 0 . 81 ) 34 % 0 . 00009 All - cause mortality plus heart failure hospitalization null 439 311 0 . 69 ( 0 . 60 to 0 . 80 ) 31 % 0 . 0000008 Cardiovascular mortality 203 128 0 . 62 ( 0 . 50 to 0 . 78 ) 38 % 0 . 000022 Sudden death 132 79 0 . 59 ( 0 . 45 to 0 . 78 ) 41 % 0 . 0002 Death due to worsening heart failure 58 30 0 . 51 ( 0 . 33 to 0 . 79 ) 49 % 0 . 0023 Hospitalization due to worsening heart failure [ 2 ] 451 317 N / A N / A 0 . 0000076 Cardiovascular hospitalization null 773 649 N / A N / A 0 . 00028 [ 1 ] Time to first event [ 2 ] Comparison of treatment groups examines the number of hospitalizations ( Wilcoxon test ) ; relative risk and risk reduction are not applicable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 1 : 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 2 : 90 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 3 : 120 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 4 : 20 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 5 : 100 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 6 : 60 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 1951 - 7 : 10 Tablets in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to take metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets regularly and continuously , as directed , preferably with or immediately following meals .
If a dose is missed , the patient should take only the next scheduled dose ( without doubling it ) .
Patients should not interrupt or discontinue metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets without consulting the physician .
Advise patients ( 1 ) to avoid operating automobiles and machinery or engaging in other tasks requiring alertness until the patient ' s response to therapy with metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets has been determined ; ( 2 ) to contact the physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs ; ( 3 ) to inform the physician or dentist before an type of surgery that he or she is taking metoprolol succinate extended - release tablets .
Heart failure patients should be advised to consult their physician if they experience signs or symptoms of worsening heart failure such as weight gain or increasing shortness of breath .
Manufactured by : Zydus Lifesciences Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 06 / 22 Metoprolol Succinate ER 100 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
