Active ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 02 % ( 0 . 01 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older : • use twice daily after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • vigorously swish 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , cetylpyridinium chloride , flavor , sodium saccharin , phosphoric acid , sodium benzoate , sucralose , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , disodium phosphate , propylene glycol , red 33 , green 3 Sealed with printed neckband for your protection To Open : 1 .
Remove Printed Tamper Evident Neckband 2 .
Squeeze Both tabs at Base of cap While turning the cap until loose .
To Close : Place cap back on bottle and turn cap until it clicks twice and feels secure .
This rinse may cause temporary staing to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful , and adequate brushing may prevent its occurence .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Crest Pro - Health Complete Anticavity Fluoride Rinse Manufactured by Vi - Jon , Inc One Swan Dr . , Smyrna , TN 37167 for ShopKo Stores Operating Co . , LLC www . shopko . com for consumer questions call 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 principal display panel ShopKo Compare to the active ingredient of Crest * Alcohol Free ANTICAVITY FLUORIDE RINSE Violet Mint Kills bad breath germs Helps prevent cavities Helps strengthen enamel Cleans teeth Freshens breath IMPORTANT : read directions for proper use .
33 . 8 FL OZ ( 1 L ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
