Description Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment in a single dose container for intravenous administration .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH is 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
Composition , osrnolarity , and ionic concentration are shown below : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP contains 9 g / L .
Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) with an osmolarity of 308 mOsmol / L ( cale ) .
It contains 154 mEq / L sodium and 154 mEQ / L chloride .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overlap in insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
Clinical Pharmacology Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Indications and Usage Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride in hemodialysis procedures .
Contraindications None Known Warnings Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , servere renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there exist ederna with sodium retention .
In patients with diminshed renal function administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may result in sodium retention .
Precautions Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotrophin .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials ; however , the use of sodium chloride solutions in the pediatric populations is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation , and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic counter measures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Dosage and Administration As directed by a physician .
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for participate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
All injections in plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
Additives may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
How Supplied 500 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP are contained in a flexible plastic bag and individually overwrapped .
The Product Code is 441 A and the NDC is 057826 441 .
Exposure of pharmaceutical products to beat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 degree C ) : brief exposure up to 40 C does not adversely affect the product .
Directions for Use Warnings : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality of safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by equeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solutions as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
Preparation for Administration 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
2 .
Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication WARNING : Additives may be incompatible To add medication before solution administration 1 .
Prepare medication site .
2 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
3 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
To add medication during solution administration 1 .
Close clamp on the set .
2 .
Prepare medication site .
3 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medications port and inject .
4 .
Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
5 .
Exacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
6 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
7 .
Return container to in - use position and continue administration .
HAEMONETICS 0 . 9 SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION , USP 500 mL Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 900 mg Containing 154 mEq / L each of Sodium ion and Chloride ion pH 5 . 6 ( range 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) Osmolarity 308 mOsm / L ( Calc . )
Sterile , nonpyrogenic solution .
Single use container .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult pharmacist if available .
Use aseptic technique when introducing additives .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Discard unused portion .
CAUTION : Squeeze and inspect inner bag which maintains product sterility .
Discard if leaks are found .
Must not be used in series connections .
Do not use unless solution is clear .
Do not remove from over wrap until ready for use .
The over wrap is a moisture barrier .
See Directions for use .
May be injected intravenously if directed by physician .
Rx only .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE : Room temperature ( 25 degree C / 77 degree F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
HAEMONETICS 0 . 9 Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 mL L352 , Rev . B Product code 441 A Haemonetics Corporation Braintree , MA 02184 USA Lot No .
Exp .
Date HAEMONETICS Sodium Chloride Injection , USP In Plastic Container Directions for use To Add Medication HAEMONETICS 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 mL Haemonetics Corporation Braintree , MA 02184 USA Package Label - Directions - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Directions - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
