Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide : 11 . 25 % Purpose : Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide : 1 . 50 % Purpose : Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Use When using this product , keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Use Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damage or broken skin .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not use In children less than 2 months of age .
On open skin wounds Stop use and contact a doctor if rash occurs .
Stop Use Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
Theses may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help of contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure .
For children under 6 months of age ; Ask a doctor Reapply at least every 2 hours Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m , and wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Additional Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients : Water ( Aqua ) , Organic Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Glycerin , Cetearyl Alcohol , Coconut Alkanes , Coco - Caprylate , Cetearyl Glucoside , Cetyl Palmitate , Galactoarabinan , Rosa Centifolia Flower Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Sorbitan Oleate , Sorbitan Palmitate , Anhydroxylitol , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Xylitylglucoside , Xylitol , Glyceryl Isostearate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Tocopherol , Sorbitan Isostearate , Caprylyl / Capryl Glucoside , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Alumina , Jojoba Esters , Phenoxyethanol , Benzyl Alcohol .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
