Drug Facts - Hand Sanitizer Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 62 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin • Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire or flame For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
Other information Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Carbomer , propylene glycol , purified water , titanium dioxide Drug Facts - Eye Wash Active ingredient Purified Water 99 . 1 % Purpose Eyewash Use For cleansing the eye to help relieve irritation or burning by removing loose foreign material Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • to avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface • do not reuse • once opened , discard • obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience : • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness • irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Flush the affected eye as needed , controlling the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle Other information • not for use as contact lens solution • use before expiration date marked on the bottle • store at room temperature , 5 ° to 35 ° C ( 41 ° to 95 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Benzalkonium chloride , sodium chloride Hand Sanitizer ( 49687 - 0015 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Eye Wash ( 50814 - 010 - 01 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Refill 6 ( 49687 - 0019 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
