Warnings and Precautions , Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 3 ) 05 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tovet Foam is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years and older .
• Tovet Foam is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Apply a thin layer of Tovet Foam to the affected area ( s ) twice daily , morning and evening , for up to 2 consecutive weeks ; therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
• The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 50 g or an amount greater than 21 capfuls per week .
• For proper dispensing of foam , shake the can , hold it upside down , and depress the actuator .
• Dispense a small amount of foam ( about a capful ) and gently massage the medication into the affected areas ( excluding the face , groin , and axillae ) until the foam is absorbed .
• Tovet Foam is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Avoid use on face , axillae , and groin , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
• Wash hands after each application .
Tovet Foam is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Apply Tovet Foam to the affected area ( s ) twice daily , morning and evening , for up to 2 consecutive weeks .
The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 50 g . ( 2 ) • Avoid use on face , axilla , and groin , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tovet ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % ( Emulsion ) contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP per gram .
Foam , 0 . 05 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tovet Foam has been shown to suppress the HPA axis .
Systemic absorption of Tovet Foam may produce reversible HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmask latent diabetes .
( 5 . 1 ) • Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 ) • High potency corticosteroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , and liver failure may predispose patients to HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • May increase the risk of cataract and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • The propellant in Tovet Foam is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Systemic absorption of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) has caused reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticoid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
Use of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) for longer than 2 weeks may suppress the immune system [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
In a trial including 37 subjects 12 years and older with atopic dermatitis of at least 30 % body surface area ( BSA ) , adrenal suppression was identified in 6 out of 37 subjects ( 16 . 2 % ) after 2 weeks of treatment with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An adrenocorticotrophic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than 1 corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses because of their larger skin surface - to - body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use , or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
If irritation develops , treatment with Tovet Foam should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 3 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids , including Tovet Foam , may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported postmarketing with the use of topical corticosteroids , including topical clobetasol products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Avoid contact of Tovet Foam with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , Tovet Foam should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 5 Flammable Contents The propellant in Tovet Foam is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Effects on Endocrine System [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) are application site atrophy and application site reaction .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Medimetriks Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 973 - 882 - 7512 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In controlled clinical trials involving 821 subjects exposed to clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) and vehicle foam , the pooled incidence of local adverse reactions in trials for atopic dermatitis and psoriasis with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) was 1 . 9 % for application site atrophy and 1 . 6 % for application site reaction .
Most local adverse events were rated as mild to moderate and they were not affected by age , race , or gender .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clobetasol formulations : erythema , pruritus , burning , alopecia , and dryness .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , irritation , striae , and miliaria .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids , such as clobetasol propionate .
Cushing ' s syndrome has been reported in infants and adults as a result of prolonged use of topical clobetasol propionate formulations .
Ophthalmic adverse reactions may include cataracts , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and central serous chorioretinopathy .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Tovet Foam use in pregnant women to inform of a drug associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Published data report a significantly increased risk of low birth weight with the use of greater than 300 grams of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid during a pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , increased malformations , such as cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities , were observed after subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate to pregnant mice and rabbits .
No comparison of animal exposure with human exposure was computed .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Multiple observational studies found no significant associations between maternal use of topical corticosteroids of any potency and congenital malformations , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality .
However , when the dispensed amount of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , use was associated with an increase in low birth weight infants ( adjusted RR , 7 . 74 [ 95 % CI , 1 . 49 – 40 . 11 ] ) .
In addition , a small cohort study , in which 28 sub - Saharan women using potent topical corticosteroids ( 27 / 28 used clobetasol propionate 0 . 05 % ) for skin lightening during pregnancy , noted a higher incidence of low birth weight infants in the exposed group .
The majority of exposed subjects treated large areas of the body ( a mean quantity of 60 g / month [ range , 12 – 170 g ] ) over long periods of time .
Animal Data Embryofetal development studies conducted with clobetasol propionate in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and malformations at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
Malformations seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In an embryofetal development study in rabbits , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate resulted in malformations at doses of 0 . 003 and 0 . 01 mg / kg .
Malformations seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of clobetasol propionate in breast milk or its effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of clobetasol propionate could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Tovet Foam and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Tovet Foam or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breast milk , use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply Tovet Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use in pediatric patients younger than 12 years is not recommended because of the risk of HPA axis suppression .
After two weeks of twice - daily treatment with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) , 7 of 15 subjects ( 47 % ) aged 6 to 11 years demonstrated HPA axis suppression .
The laboratory suppression was transient ; in all subjects serum cortisol levels returned to normal when tested 4 weeks post - treatment .
In 92 subjects aged 12 to 17 years , safety was similar to that observed in the adult population .
Based on these data , no adjustment of dosage of Tovet Foam in adolescent patients aged 12 to 17 years is warranted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles ( in infants ) , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Adverse effects , including striae , have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A limited number of subjects aged 65 years or older have been treated with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) ( n = 58 ) in US clinical trials .
While the number of subjects is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , the adverse reactions reported in this population were similar to those reported by younger subjects .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of Tovet Foam in geriatric patients is warranted .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Tovet Foam can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
11 DESCRIPTION Tovet ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % ( Emulsion ) is a white to off - white petrolatum - based emulsion aerosol foam containing the active ingredient clobetasol propionate , USP , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Clobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11ß , 17 - dihydroxy - 16ß - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - propionate , with the empirical formula C25H32ClFO5 , and a molecular weight of 466 . 97 .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate is a white to almost white crystalline powder , practically insoluble in water .
Each gram of Tovet Foam contains 0 . 5 mg clobetasol propionate , USP .
The foam also contains anhydrous citric acid , cetyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , potassium citrate monohydrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monolaurate , and phenoxyethanol as a preservative .
Tovet Foam is dispensed from an aluminum can pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a trial evaluating the potential for HPA axis suppression using the cosyntropin stimulation test , clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) demonstrated reversible adrenal suppression after two weeks of twice - daily use in subjects with atopic dermatitis of at least 30 % body surface area ( BSA ) .
The proportion of subjects aged 12 years and older demonstrating HPA axis suppression was 16 . 2 % ( 6 out of 37 ) .
In this trial HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL 30 minutes post cosyntropin stimulation .
The laboratory suppression was transient ; in all subjects serum cortisol levels returned to normal when tested 4 weeks post treatment .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the product formulation and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation , and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
The use of pharmacodynamic endpoints for assessing the systemic exposure of topical corticosteroids may be necessary due to the fact that circulating levels are often below the level of detection .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
Following twice - daily application of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) for one week to 32 adult subjects with mild to moderate plaque - type psoriasis , mean peak plasma concentrations ( ± SD ) of 59 ± 36 pg / mL of clobetasol were observed at around 5 hours post dose on Day 8 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) or clobetasol propionate .
In a 90 - day repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) at dose concentrations from 0 . 001 % to 0 . 1 % or from 0 . 03 to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day of clobetasol propionate resulted in a toxicity profile consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids including adrenal atrophy , histopathological changes in several organ systems indicative of severe immune suppression and opportunistic fungal and bacterial infections .
A no observable adverse effect level could not be determined in this study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Clobetasol propionate was non - mutagenic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
In the in vivo mouse micronucleus test , a positive finding was observed at 24 hours , but not at 48 hours , following oral administration at a dose of 2 , 000 mg / kg .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate at dosage levels up to 0 . 05 mg / kg per day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized trial of subjects 12 years and older with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis , 251 subjects were treated with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) and 126 subjects were treated with vehicle foam .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks .
At the end of treatment , 131 of 251 subjects ( 52 % ) treated with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) compared with 18 of 126 subjects ( 14 % ) treated with vehicle foam achieved treatment success .
Treatment success was defined by an Investigator ' s Static Global Assessment ( ISGA ) score of clear ( 0 ) or almost clear ( 1 ) with at least 2 grades improvement from baseline , and scores of absent or minimal ( 0 or 1 ) for erythema and induration / papulation .
In an additional randomized trial of subjects 12 years and older with mild to moderate plaque - type psoriasis , 253 subjects were treated with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) and 123 subjects were treated with vehicle foam .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks .
At the end of treatment , 41 of 253 subjects ( 16 % ) treated with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( emulsion ) compared with 5 of 123 subjects ( 4 % ) treated with vehicle foam achieved treatment success .
Treatment success was defined by an ISGA score of clear ( 0 ) or almost clear ( 1 ) with at least 2 grades improvement from baseline , scores of none or faint / minimal ( 0 or 1 ) for erythema and scaling , and a score of none ( 0 ) for plaque thickness .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % ( Emulsion ) contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP per gram .
The white emulsion aerosol foam is available as follows : • 100 g aluminum can • NDC 43538 - 952 - 10 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) Effects on Endocrine System Tovet Foam may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of topical corticosteroids , including Tovet Foam , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
Concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Patients should inform their physician ( s ) that they are using Tovet Foam if surgery is contemplated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Advise patients to report any visual symptoms to their healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
Advise patients that local reactions and skin atrophy are more likely to occur with occlusive use or prolonged use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise a pregnant woman that use of Tovet Foam may cause fetal harm and to use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a woman to use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply Tovet Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Unless directed by the prescriber , it should not be used on the face , or in skin - fold areas , such as the underarms or groin .
Avoid contact with the eyes or other mucous membranes .
Wash hands after use .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• Do not use for more than 50 grams per week of Tovet Foam , or an amount greater than 21 capfuls per week [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• This medication is flammable ; avoid heat , flame , or smoking when applying this product .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Medimetriks Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , 383 Route 46 West , Fairfield , NJ 07004 USA Manufactured by : Padagis , Yeruham , Israel Rev . : 4 / 22 IP052 - R1 6C700 EK J4 PATIENT INFORMATION Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient Formulation ) IMPORTANT : For skin use only .
Do not get Tovet Foam in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is Tovet Foam ?
Tovet Foam is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat people 12 years of age and older with certain skin conditions that cause red , flaky , and itchy skin .
Tovet Foam is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age .
Tovet Foam should not be used : • on your face , underarms , or groin area .
• if you have skin thinning ( atrophy ) at the treatment area .
You should not use Tovet Foam for longer than 2 weeks in a row .
You should not use more than 50 grams or 21 capfuls of Tovet Foam in 1 week .
Before using Tovet Foam , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had irritation or other skin reaction to a steroid medicine in the past .
• have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before using Tovet Foam .
• have diabetes .
• have adrenal gland problems .
• have liver problems .
• plan to have surgery .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Tovet Foam will harm your unborn baby .
If you use Tovet Foam during pregnancy , use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Tovet Foam passes into your breast milk .
If you use Tovet Foam while breastfeeding , use Tovet Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
Do not apply Tovet Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid getting Tovet Foam into your baby ' s mouth .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicine you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Do not use other products containing a corticosteroid medicine during treatment with Tovet Foam without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should I use Tovet Foam ?
See the " Instructions for Use " for detailed information about the right way to apply Tovet Foam .
• Use Tovet Foam exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Apply a thin layer of Tovet Foam to the affected area 2 times each day , 1 time in the morning and 1 time at night , or as directed by your healthcare provider .
• Do not bandage , wrap or cover your treated area unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Talk to your healthcare provider if your skin does not improve after 2 weeks of treatment with Tovet Foam .
• Wash your hands after using Tovet Foam .
What should I avoid while using Tovet Foam ?
Tovet Foam is flammable .
Avoid heat , flame , or smoking during and right after you apply Tovet Foam to your skin .
What are the possible side effects of Tovet Foam ?
Tovet Foam may cause serious side effects , including : • Tovet Foam can pass through your skin .
Too much Tovet Foam passing through your skin can cause adrenal glands to stop working .
• Cushing ' s syndrome , a condition that happens when the body is exposed to too much of the hormone cortisol .
• High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) • Vision problems .
Tovet Foam may increase your chance of developing vision problems such as cataract ( s ) and glaucoma .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop blurred vision or other vision problems during your treatment with Tovet Foam .
• Skin reactions at the treated site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
• Effects on growth and weight in children .
Your healthcare provider may do certain blood tests to check for side effects .
The most common side effects of Tovet Foam include : • thinning of skin • burning • redness • itching • dryness These are not all the side effects of Tovet Foam .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Tovet Foam ?
• Store Tovet Foam at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not break through ( puncture ) Tovet Foam can .
• Never throw the can into a fire , even if the can is empty .
• Do not store Tovet Foam near heat or at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep Tovet Foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Tovet Foam Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Tovet Foam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Tovet Foam to other people , even if they have the same condition that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Tovet Foam that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Tovet Foam ?
Active ingredient : clobetasol propionate Inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , cetyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , potassium citrate monohydrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monolaurate , and phenoxyethanol as a preservative ; pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
For more information , call Medimetriks at 1 - 973 - 882 - 7512 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient Formulation ) Important information : Tovet Foam is for use on the skin only .
Do not get Tovet Foam in your eyes , mouth , or vagina ; if contact happens , rinse well with water .
How to apply Tovet Foam [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Before applying Tovet Foam for the first time , break the tiny plastic piece at the base of the can ' s rim by gently pushing back ( away from the piece ) on the nozzle .
See Figure A . Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Shake the can of Tovet Foam before use .
See Figure B . Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Turn the can of Tovet Foam upside down and press the nozzle .
See Figure C . Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Press down on the actuator to dispense a small amount of Tovet Foam into the palm of your hand .
See Figure D . Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Apply a thin layer of Tovet Foam to cover the affected area .
Gently rub the foam into the affected area until the foam disappears .
See Figure E . Figure E Step 6 : Wash your hands after applying Tovet Foam .
• Throw away any of the unused medicine that you dispensed out of the can .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Medimetriks Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , 383 Route 46 West , Fairfield , NJ 07004 USA Manufactured by : Padagis , Yeruham , Israel Rev . : 4 / 22 IP052 - R1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 g Canister Carton Rx Only NDC 43538 - 952 - 10 Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % Emollient Formulation For Topical Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic , Oral , or Intravaginal Use .
100 g MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 43538 - 953 - 10 Rx Only Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % KIT Emollient Formulation For Topical Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic , Oral , or Intravaginal Use .
KIT CONTENTS : 1 - Tovet ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % - 100 g 1 - Keradan ® Cream - Net wt .
9 oz .
( 255 g ) Tube MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
