OneTouch Advanced Topical Anesthetic Gel Rx Only Active Ingredients : Benzocaine 14 . 0 % Butamben 2 . 0 % Tetracaine Hydrochloride 2 . 0 % Inactive Ingredients : Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 5 % Cetyl Dimethyl Ethyl Ammonium Bromide 0 . 005 % In bland , water - soluble base .
Action The onset of OneTouch Advanced - produced anesthesia is rapid ( approximately 30 seconds ) and the duration of anesthesia is typically 30 - 60 minutes , when used as directed .
This effect is due to the rapid onset , but short duration of action of Benzocaine coupled with the slow onset , but extended duration of Tetracaine HCI and bridged by the intermediate action of Butamben .
It is believed that all of these agents act by reversibly blocking nerve conduc - tion .
Speed and duration of action is determined by the ability of the agent to be absorbed by the mucous membrane and nerve sheath and then to diffuse out , and ultimately be metabolized ( primarily by plasma cholinesterases ) to inert metabolites which are excreted in the urine .
Indications OneTouch Advanced Gel is a topical anesthetic indicated for the production of anesthesia of all accessible mucous membrane except the eyes .
OneTouch Advanced Gel is indicated for use to control pain in the mouth .
Dosage and Administration Only a limited quantity is OneTouch Advanced Gel is required for anesthesia .
Dispense 200 mg of gel ( a bead approximately 1 / 4 to 1 / 2 inches long ) by gently depressing the pump .
Dispensing a bead of gel in excess of 400 mg is contrain - dicated .
Spread thinly and evenly over the desired area using a cotton swab .
An appropriate pediatric dosage has not been established for OneTouch Ad - vanced Gel .
Dosages should be reduced in the debilitated elderly , acutely ill , and very young patients .
Tissue need not be dried prior to application of OneTouch Advanced Gel .
One - Touch Advanced Gel should be applied directly to the site where pain control is required .
Anesthesia is produced within one minute with an approximate duration of thirty minutes .
Each 200 mg dose of OneTouch Advanced Gel contains 28 mg of benzocaine , 4 mg of butamben and 4 mg of tetracaine HCI .
Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity Reactions : Unpredictable adverse reactions ( i . e . hypersensi - tivity , including anaphylaxis ) are extremely rare .
Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic .
The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing .
This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self - medication , which is contraindicated .
If rash , urticaria , edema , or other manifestations of allergy develop during use , the drug should be discontinued .
To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction , OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision .
Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic ef - fect may also result from prolonged contact .
Precaution : On rare occasions , methemoglobinemia has been reported in connection with the use of benzocaine - containing products .
Care should be used not to exceed the maximum recommended dosage ( see Dosage and Administration ) .
If a patient becomes cyanotic , treat appropriately to counteract ( such as with methylene blue , if medically indicated ) .
Use in Pregnancy : Safe use of One Touch Advanced Gel has not been established with respect to possible adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be used during early pregnancy , unless in the judgement of a physician , the potential benefits outweigh the un - known hazards .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when OneTouch Advanced Gel is used .
Contraindications OneTouch Advanced Gel is not suitable and should never be used for injection .
Do not use on the eyes .
To avoid excessive systemic absorption , OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be applied to large areas of denuded or inflamed tissue .
OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be administered to patients who are hypersensitive to any of its ingredients or to patients known to have cholinest - erase deficiencies .
Tolerance may vary with status of the patient .
OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be used under dentures or cotton rolls , as retention of the active gel ingredients under a denture or cotton roll could pos - sibly cause an escharotic effect .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when using OneTouch Advanced Gel .
How - Supplied OneTouch Advanced Gel , 32 g jar Cool Mint NDC 62565 - 901 - 01 Strawberry Ice NDC 62565 - 902 - 01 Bubble Gum NDC 62565 - 903 - 01 Cherry NDC 62565 - 904 - 01 Manufactured for HAGER WORLDWIDE 13322 Byrd Drive Odessa , FL 33556 USA Made in U . S . A . Rev . 6 / 09 Caution : Rx Only .
Do not use in eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions : Read package insert .
Press top of container to dispense desired amount .
Dispense 200 mg of gel ( a bead approximately 1 / 4 to 1 / 2 inches long ) by gently depressing the pump .
Dispensing a bead in excess of 400 mg is contraindicated .
Spread thinly and evenly over the desired area using a cotton swab .
Active Ingredients : Benzocaine 14 . 0 % , Butamben 2 . 0 % , Tetracaine Hydrochloride 2 . 0 % Inactive Ingredients : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 5 % , Cetyl Dimethyl Ethyl Ammonium Bromide 0 . 005 % , in a bland water - soluble base .
NDC 62565 - 903 - 01 OneTouch Advanced Topical Anesthetic Gel OneTouch Advanced is indicated for anesthesia of accessible mucous membrane .
Bubble Gum Net Wt .
32 g Store in a cool dry place .
Manufactured for : HAGER WORLDWIDE Odessa , FL 33556 USA Item # 6256590301 Made in U . S . A . Rev . 05 / 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
