1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GELNIQUE is indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency [ see Clinical Studies 14 ] .
GELNIQUE is an antimuscarinic agent indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The contents of one sachet of GELNIQUE should be applied once daily to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , upper arms / shoulders , or thighs .
Application sites should be rotated .
Application of GELNIQUE should not be made to the same site on consecutive days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
• Apply contents of one sachet of GELNIQUE once daily to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , upper arms / shoulders , or thighs .
( 2 ) • Rotate application sites , avoiding use of the same site on consecutive days .
( 2 ) • GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each sachet contains a 1 gram unit dose ( 1 . 14 mL ) of 100 mg / g oxybutynin chloride gel .
Sachet : 1 gram unit dose ( 1 . 14 mL ) 100 mg / g oxybutynin chloride gel .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of GELNIQUE is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Urinary retention • Gastric retention • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma • Known hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE , including skin hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Urinary retention ( 4 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE , including skin hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Urinary Retention : Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Disorders : Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention .
Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and / or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis ( 5 . 2 ) • Skin Hypersensitivity : Discontinue GELNIQUE in patients with skin hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 3 ) • Skin transference : Advise patients to cover the application site with clothing if skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated .
Wash hands immediately after product application .
( 5 . 4 ) • Flammable Gel : Contains alcohol - based gel .
Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Urinary Retention Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
5 . 2 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer GELNIQUE with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention .
GELNIQUE , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony .
GELNIQUE should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
5 . 3 Skin Hypersensitivity In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization , 1 of 200 patients ( 0 . 5 % ) demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE .
Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE should discontinue drug treatment .
5 . 4 Skin Transference Transfer of oxybutynin to another person can occur when vigorous skin - to - skin contact is made with the application site .
To minimize the potential transfer of oxybutynin from GELNIQUE - treated skin to another person , patients should cover the application site with clothing after the gel has dried if direct skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should wash their hands immediately after application of GELNIQUE .
5 . 5 Flammable Gel GELNIQUE is an alcohol - based gel and is therefore flammable .
Avoid open fire or smoking until gel has dried .
5 . 6 Myasthenia Gravis Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 5 % and > placebo ) were dry mouth and application site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Watson Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience The safety of GELNIQUE was evaluated in 789 patients ( 389 randomized to GELNIQUE 1 g and 400 randomized to placebo ) during a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , 12 - week clinical efficacy and safety study .
A subset of these 789 patients ( N = 216 ) participated in the 14 - week open - label safety extension that followed the placebo - controlled study .
Of 216 patients in the safety extension , 107 were randomized to placebo gel during the double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study .
In the combined double - blind , placebo - controlled study and the open - label safety extension , a total of 496 patients were exposed to at least one dose of GELNIQUE .
Four hundred thirty - one ( 431 ) patients received at least 12 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment and 85 patients received 26 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment .
The study population primarily consisted of Caucasian women ( approximately 90 % ) with an average age of 59 years who had overactive bladder with urge urinary incontinence .
Table 1 lists adverse events , regardless of causality , that were reported in the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study at an incidence greater than placebo and in greater than 2 % of patients treated with GELNIQUE .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Events in the Randomized , Double - blind , Placebo - controlled 12 - Week Study ( > 2 % and > placebo ) Adverse Event GELNIQUE 1 gram N = 389 n ( % ) Placebo N = 400 n ( % ) * Includes application site pruritus , dermatitis , papules , anesthesia , erythema , irritation , pain and papules Dry mouth 29 ( 7 . 5 ) 11 ( 2 . 8 ) Urinary tract infection 27 ( 6 . 9 ) 17 ( 4 . 3 ) Application site reactions * 21 ( 5 . 4 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 21 ( 5 . 4 ) 20 ( 5 . 0 ) Dizziness 11 ( 2 . 8 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Nasopharyngitis 11 ( 2 . 8 ) 9 ( 2 . 3 ) Fatigue 8 ( 2 . 1 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Gastroenteritis viral 8 ( 2 . 1 ) 7 ( 1 . 8 ) The most common adverse reactions , defined as adverse events judged by the investigator to be reasonably associated with the use of study drug , that were reported in ≥ 1 % of GELNIQUE - treated patients were dry mouth ( 6 . 9 % ) , application site reactions ( 5 . 4 % ) , dizziness ( 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 1 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 3 % ) , and pruritus ( 1 . 3 % ) .
Application site pruritus ( 2 . 1 % ) and application site dermatitis ( 1 . 8 % ) were the most commonly reported application site reactions .
A majority of treatment - related adverse events were described as mild or moderate in intensity , except for two patients reporting severe headache .
No serious adverse events were judged by the investigator to be treatment - related during the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study .
The most common adverse reaction leading to drug discontinuation was application site reaction ( 0 . 8 % with GELNIQUE versus 0 . 3 % with placebo ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported during the 14 - week open - label extension study were application site reactions ( 6 . 0 % ) and dry mouth ( 1 . 9 % ) .
The most common reason for premature discontinuation was application site reactions ( 9 patients or 4 . 2 % ) .
Two of these 9 patients experienced application site reactions of severe intensity ( dermatitis , urticaria , and erythema ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug - drug interaction studies have been performed with GELNIQUE .
Other Anticholinergics ( antimuscarinics ) : Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of GELNIQUE with other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision , somnolence and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of topical or oral oxybutynin use in pregnant women .
Subcutaneous administration to rats at doses up to 25 mg / kg ( approximately 50 times the human exposure based on surface area ) and to rabbits at doses up to 0 . 4 mg / kg ( approximately 1 times the human exposure ) revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to oxybutynin chloride .
The safety of GELNIQUE administration to women who are or who may become pregnant has not been established .
Therefore , GELNIQUE should not be given to pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the probable clinical benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether oxybutynin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when GELNIQUE is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of GELNIQUE in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 496 patients exposed to GELNIQUE in the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study and the 14 - week safety extension study , 188 patients ( 38 % ) were 65 years of age and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of GELNIQUE in patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of GELNIQUE in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with oxybutynin has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Oral ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 - year - old boy who experienced memory loss , and in a 34 - year - old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients recovered fully with symptomatic treatment .
Plasma concentrations of oxybutynin begin to decline 24 hours after GELNIQUE application .
If overexposure occurs , monitor patients until symptoms resolve .
11 DESCRIPTION Oxybutynin is an antispasmodic , antimuscarinic agent .
GELNIQUE ( oxybutynin chloride ) is a clear and colorless hydroalcoholic gel containing 100 mg oxybutynin chloride per gram of gel .
GELNIQUE is available in a 1 gram ( 1 . 14 mL ) unit dose that contains 100 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Oxybutynin is delivered as a racemate of R - and S - isomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 - butynyl ( ± ) - α - phenylcyclohexaneglycolate hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin is C22H31NO3 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white powder with a molecular weight of 393 . 95 .
Inactive ingredients in GELNIQUE are alcohol , USP ; glycerin , USP ; hydroxypropyl cellulose , NF ; sodium hydroxide , NF ; and purified water , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxybutynin acts as a competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at postganglionic muscarinic receptors , resulting in relaxation of bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary detrusor contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases maximum urinary bladder capacity and increases the volume to first detrusor contraction .
Oxybutynin is a racemic ( 50 : 50 ) mixture of R - and S - isomers .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly with the R - isomer .
The active metabolite , N - desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity on the human detrusor muscle that is similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Oxybutynin is transported across intact skin and into the systemic circulation by passive diffusion across the stratum corneum .
Steady - state concentrations are achieved within 7 days of continuous dosing .
Absorption of oxybutynin is similar when GELNIQUE is applied to the abdomen , upper arm / shoulders or thighs .
Mean plasma concentrations during a randomized , crossover study of the three recommended application sites in 39 healthy men and women are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Average steady - state plasma oxybutynin concentrations were 4 . 7 , 5 . 2 , and 5 . 5 ng / mL for the abdomen , upper arm / shoulder and thigh application sites , respectively ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Mean ( SD ) steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters for oxybutynin following GELNIQUE application to the abdomen , upper arm / shoulder and thigh ( N = 39 ) .
Application Site AUC0 - 24 ( ng • hr / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Cavg ( ng / mL ) Abdomen 112 . 7 ( 58 . 00 ) 6 . 8 ( 3 . 93 ) 4 . 7 ( 2 . 39 ) Upper Arm / Shoulder 133 . 8 ( 81 . 58 ) 8 . 3 ( 5 . 97 ) 5 . 5 ( 3 . 37 ) Thigh 125 . 1 ( 84 . 67 ) 7 . 0 ( 4 . 95 ) 5 . 2 ( 3 . 50 ) Distribution Oxybutynin is widely distributed in body tissues following systemic absorption .
The volume of distribution was estimated to be 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 , found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Metabolites include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and N - desethyloxybutynin ( DEO ) , which is pharmacologically active .
Transdermal administration of oxybutynin bypasses the first - pass gastrointestinal and hepatic metabolism , reducing the formation of the N - desethyloxybutynin metabolite .
Only small amounts of CYP3A4 are found in skin , limiting pre - systemic metabolism during transdermal absorption .
The AUC ratio of N - desethyloxybutynin metabolite to parent compound following multiple transdermal applications is approximately 1 : 1 for GELNIQUE .
Following intravenous administration , the elimination half - life of oxybutynin is approximately 2 hours .
After the final steady - state dose of GELNIQUE , oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin demonstrated biphasic elimination with plasma concentrations beginning to decrease 24 hours after dosing .
Elimination was more rapid between 24 and 48 hours after dosing , during which time plasma concentrations of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin declined by about one - half .
This rapid elimination phase was followed by a more prolonged terminal elimination phase .
The apparent elimination half - lives including the terminal elimination phase were 64 hours and 82 hours for oxybutynin and DEO , respectively .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite N - desethyloxybutynin .
Person - to - Person Transference The potential for dermal transfer of oxybutynin from a treated person to an untreated person was evaluated in a single - dose study where subjects dosed with GELNIQUE engaged in vigorous contact with an untreated partner for 15 minutes , either with ( N = 14 couples ) or without ( N = 12 couples ) clothing covering the application area .
The untreated partners not protected by clothing demonstrated detectable plasma concentrations of oxybutynin ( mean Cmax = 0 . 94 ng / mL ) .
Two of the 14 untreated subjects participating in the clothing - to - skin contact regimen had measurable oxybutynin plasma concentrations ( Cmax ≤ 0 . 1 ng / mL ) during the 48 hours following contact with treated subjects ; oxybutynin was not detectable with the remaining 12 untreated subjects .
Use of Sunscreen The effect of sunscreen on the absorption of oxybutynin when applied 30 minutes before or 30 minutes after GELNIQUE application was evaluated in a single - dose randomized crossover study ( N = 16 ) .
Concomitant application of sunscreen , either before or after GELNIQUE application , had no effect on the systemic exposure of oxybutynin .
Showering The effect of showering on the absorption of oxybutynin was evaluated in a randomized , steady - state crossover study under conditions of no shower , or showering 1 , 2 or 6 hours after GELNIQUE application ( N = 20 ) .
The results of the study indicate that showering after one hour does not affect the overall systemic exposure to oxybutynin .
Race The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of GELNIQUE has not been studied .
Geriatric Patients Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on geriatric status in patients following administration of GELNIQUE [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin have not been evaluated in individuals younger than 18 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Gender Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on gender in healthy volunteers following administration of GELNIQUE .
Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of GELNIQUE in patients with renal insufficiency .
Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of GELNIQUE in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 and 160 mg / kg showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 and 50 times the maximum exposure in humans taking an oral dose , based on body surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of GELNIQUE were evaluated in a single randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group 12 - week study for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge incontinence , urgency and frequency .
Key entry criteria included adults with symptomatic overactive bladder with an average of ≥ 4 incontinence episodes in a 3 - day period and at least 8 micturitions per day .
Patients were randomized to daily applications of GELNIQUE 1 gram or matching placebo gel .
A total of 389 patients received GELNIQUE and 400 patients received placebo gel .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 86 . 3 % ) and female ( 89 . 2 % ) , with a mean age of 59 . 4 years ( range : 18 to 88 years ) .
The average duration of urinary incontinence was approximately 8 . 5 years and approximately 75 % of patients had no prior pharmacological treatment for urinary incontinence .
Patients treated with GELNIQUE experienced a statistically significant decrease in the number of urinary incontinence episodes per day from baseline to endpoint ( the primary efficacy endpoint ) compared with placebo ( p < 0 . 0001 ) as well as a decrease in the average daily urinary frequency ( p = 0 . 0017 ) and an increase in the average urine volume per void ( p = 0 . 0018 ) .
Mean and median change from baseline in daily incontinence episodes ( primary endpoint ) , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume ( secondary endpoints ) between placebo and GELNIQUE are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean and median change from baseline for incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume at Week 12 ( LOCF * ) .
Parameter GELNIQUE 1 gram ( N = 389 ) Placebo ( N = 400 ) Mean ( SD ) Median Mean ( SD ) Median * Last - Observation - Carried - Forward statistical imputation for missing data Daily Incontinence Episodes Baseline 5 . 4 ( 3 . 26 ) 4 . 7 5 . 4 ( 3 . 28 ) 4 . 7 Change from baseline - 3 . 0 ( 2 . 73 ) - 2 . 7 - 2 . 5 ( 3 . 06 ) - 2 . 0 Mean difference [ GELNIQUE – placebo ] ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 14 , - 0 . 87 ) P - value vs . placebo < 0 . 0001 Daily Urinary Frequency Baseline 12 . 4 ( 3 . 34 ) 11 . 7 12 . 2 ( 3 . 32 ) 11 . 3 Change from baseline - 2 . 7 ( 3 . 21 ) - 2 . 7 - 2 . 0 ( 2 . 82 ) - 1 . 7 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 0017 Urinary Void Volume ( mL ) Baseline 163 . 4 ( 65 . 85 ) 160 . 1 167 . 9 ( 68 . 40 ) 160 . 6 Change from Baseline 21 . 0 ( 65 . 33 ) 11 . 5 3 . 8 ( 53 . 79 ) 0 . 0 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 0018 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Unit Dose : Heat - sealed sachet containing 1 gram ( 1 . 14 mL ) of GELNIQUE gel for topical use .
Carton of 30 Sachets NDC 54868 - 6171 - 0 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Protect from moisture and humidity .
Apply immediately after the sachets are opened and contents expelled .
Discard used sachets in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by children , pets , or others .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA - approved Patient Labeling ] 17 . 1 Instructions for Use GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
GELNIQUE should not be applied to recently shaved skin surfaces .
Patients should wash hands immediately after product application .
Application sites should not be subject to showering or water immersion for 1 hour after product application .
Application sites should be covered with clothing if close skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated .
Alcohol based gels are flammable .
Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried .
17 . 2 Important Anticholinergic Adverse Reactions Patients should be informed that anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , such as GELNIQUE , may produce clinically significant adverse reactions related to anticholinergic pharmacological activity including constipation , urinary retention and blurred vision .
Heat prostration ( due to decreased sweating ) can occur when anticholinergics such as GELNIQUE are used in a hot environment .
Because anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , such as GELNIQUE , may produce dizziness or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until GELNIQUE ’ s effects have been determined .
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents such as GELNIQUE .
FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Information for the Patient GELNIQUE ( oxybutynin chloride ) 10 % gel ( For Topical Use Only ) Read this information carefully before you begin treatment .
Read the information whenever you refill a prescription as there may be something new .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about GELNIQUE , ask your doctor .
Only your doctor can determine if GELNIQUE is right for you .
What is GELNIQUE ?
GELNIQUE is a clear and colorless topical gel approved for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
It delivers the active ingredient , oxybutynin , directly into your bloodstream through your skin .
Overactive bladder makes it hard to control urination ( passing water ) .
Overactive bladder can make you urinate more often ( increased frequency ) or make you feel the need to urinate suddenly ( urgency ) .
Overactive bladder can also lead to accidental urine loss ( leaking or wetting oneself ) .
The active ingredient in GELNIQUE , oxybutynin , is formulated into a topical gel for daily application .
GELNIQUE delivers the medicine slowly and constantly through your skin and into your bloodstream for 24 hours .
GELNIQUE contains the same active ingredient as oxybutynin tablets , patches and syrup .
Who should not use GELNIQUE ?
Do not use GELNIQUE if you have the following medical conditions : • Urinary retention .
Your bladder does not empty or does not empty completely when you urinate .
• Gastric retention .
Your stomach empties slowly or incompletely after a meal .
• Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( high pressure in your eye ) .
Tell your doctor if you have glaucoma or a family history of glaucoma .
• Allergy to oxybutynin or the inactive ingredients in GELNIQUE .
If you need to know the inactive ingredients , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
If you have allergies to topical medical products , tell your doctor .
If you have certain other medical conditions , use GELNIQUE with caution .
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , especially if you have any of the following : • Pregnancy or breastfeeding • Liver disease • Kidney disease • Difficulty in emptying bladder completely • Constipation or difficulty in emptying bowels • Ulcerative colitis ( inflamed bowels ) • Gastric reflux disease or esophagitis ( inflamed esophagus , the tube between your mouth and stomach ) Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines and supplements .
Some of them may cause problems if you administer GELNIQUE .
Also , GELNIQUE may affect how some medicines are absorbed from the stomach .
What should I avoid while using GELNIQUE ?
Do not apply GELNIQUE to areas of the skin that have been treated with oils , lotions , or powders as that could affect the amount of oxybutynin absorbed through the skin .
However , GELNIQUE may be used with sunscreen .
GELNIQUE is a gel which contains alcohol .
Gels with alcohol are flammable .
Avoid fire , flame or smoking until the gel has dried .
What are the possible side effects of GELNIQUE ?
You may have skin changes at the site of application , such as itching , rash , or redness .
If uncomfortable irritation or excessive itchiness continues , tell your doctor .
Oxybutynin may cause sleepiness or blurred vision , so be careful when driving or operating machinery .
Drinking alcoholic beverages may increase these effects .
Since oxybutynin treatment may decrease sweating , you may overheat or have fever or heat stroke if you are in warm or hot temperatures .
The most common side effect of GELNIQUE is dry mouth .
Other possible side effects include application site skin changes ( such as itching , rash , or redness ) , headache , constipation , and dizziness .
If you take other medicines that cause dry mouth , constipation , or sleepiness , GELNIQUE can increase those effects .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of GELNIQUE .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I use GELNIQUE ?
GELNIQUE is for application to the skin only .
GELNIQUE SHOULD NOT BE TAKEN BY MOUTH .
Important : Avoid contact with eyes , nose , open sores , recently shaved skin , and skin with rashes or other areas not approved for the application of GELNIQUE .
• Step 1 .
The approved application sites for GELNIQUE are the shaded areas shown in Figure A .
These are the abdomen ( stomach area ) , upper arms / shoulder , and thigh .
Select an approved site for the application of GELNIQUE .
Changing the approved application sites with each dose is recommended and may help you to find the most comfortable areas for applying GELNIQUE .
The approved application sites are shown below .
Do not apply GELNIQUE in an area that is not approved .
Figure A : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 2 .
Wash your hands with soap and water before applying GELNIQUE .
• Step 3 .
Wash the area where GELNIQUE will be applied with mild soap and water .
Allow the area to dry completely .
• Step 4 .
Tear the packet of GELNIQUE open at the indentation just before use .
See Figure B . Figure B : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Squeeze the entire contents of the packet into the palm of your hand or squeeze directly onto the application site .
See Figure C . Squeeze from the bottom of the packet toward the open end .
Repeat until the packet is empty .
The amount of gel in each packet will be about the size of a nickel on your skin .
Figure C : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 5 .
Gently rub GELNIQUE into your skin until it dries .
Do not continue rubbing after GELNIQUE has dried .
If applying GELNIQUE to the stomach , care should be taken to avoid the area around the navel ( belly - button ) .
See Figure D . Figure D : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 6 .
Carefully throw away the open packet of GELNIQUE so that children and pets are not exposed to it .
• Step 7 .
After applying GELNIQUE , immediately wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
Avoid bathing , swimming , showering , exercising or immersing the application site in water for one hour after application .
The application site may be covered with clothing once GELNIQUE has dried .
What should I do if someone else is exposed to GELNIQUE ?
If someone else is exposed to GELNIQUE by direct contact with the gel or at the application site of GELNIQUE , that person should wash the area of contact with soap and water as soon as possible .
What should I do if I get GELNIQUE in my eyes ?
If you get GELNIQUE in your eyes , rinse your eyes right away with warm , clean water to flush out any GELNIQUE .
Seek medical attention if needed .
General advice about GELNIQUE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not give GELNIQUE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about GELNIQUE .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about GELNIQUE that is written for health professionals .
You can get more information about GELNIQUE from the product information department at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or by selecting patient information at the GELNIQUE Website located at www . GELNIQUE . com .
Store at room temperature , 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Temporary storage between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) is also permitted .
Keep GELNIQUE and all medications in a safe , secure place and out of the reach of children .
Address medical inquiries to : Watson Pharma , Inc .
Medical Communications P . O . Box 1953 Morristown , NJ 07962 - 1953 800 - 272 - 5525 Watson Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA © 2008 Watson Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Corona , CA 92880 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL GELNIQUE 1 gram ( 1 . 14 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
