DESCRIPTION The barbiturates are nonselective central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants that are primarily used as sedative hypnotics .
In subhypnotic doses , they are also used as anticonvulsants .
The barbiturates and their sodium salts are subject to control under the Federal Controlled Substances Act .
Amobarbital sodium is a white , friable , granular powder that is odorless , has a bitter taste , and is hygroscopic .
It is very soluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in ether and chloroform .
Amobarbital sodium is sodium 5 - ethyl - 5 - isopentylbarbiturate and has the empirical formula C11H17N2NaO3 .
Its molecular weight is 248 . 26 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amobarbital sodium is a substituted pyrimidine derivative in which the basic structure is barbituric acid , a substance that has no CNS activity .
Vials of amobarbital sodium are for parenteral administration .
The vials contain 500 mg ( 2 mmol ) amobarbital sodium as a sterile lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barbiturates are capable of producing all levels of CNS mood alteration , from excitation to mild sedation , hypnosis , and deep coma .
Overdosage can produce death .
In high enough therapeutic doses , barbiturates induce anesthesia .
Barbiturates depress the sensory cortex , decrease motor activity , alter cerebellar function , and produce drowsiness , sedation , and hypnosis .
Barbiturate - induced sleep differs from physiologic sleep .
Sleep laboratory studies have demonstrated that barbiturates reduce the amount of time spent in the rapid eye movement ( REM ) phase of sleep or the dreaming stage .
Also , Stages III and IV sleep are decreased .
Following abrupt cessation of barbiturates used regularly , patients may experience markedly increased dreaming , nightmares , and / or insomnia .
Therefore , withdrawal of a single therapeutic dose over 5 or 6 days has been recommended to lessen the REM rebound and disturbed sleep that contribute to the drug withdrawal syndrome ( for example , the dose should be decreased from 3 to 2 doses / day for 1 week ) .
In studies , secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium have been found to lose most of their effectiveness for both inducing and maintaining sleep by the end of 2 weeks of continued drug administration , even with the use of multiple doses .
As with secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium , other barbiturates ( including amobarbital ) might be expected to lose their effectiveness for inducing and maintaining sleep after about 2 weeks .
The short - , intermediate - , and to a lesser degree , long - acting barbiturates have been widely prescribed for treating insomnia .
Although the clinical literature abounds with claims that the short - acting barbiturates are superior for producing sleep whereas the intermediate - acting compounds are more effective in maintaining sleep , controlled studies have failed to demonstrate these differential effects .
Therefore , as sleep medications , the barbiturates are of limited value beyond short - term use .
Barbiturates have little analgesic action at subanesthetic doses .
Rather , in subanesthetic doses , these drugs may increase the reaction to painful stimuli .
All barbiturates exhibit anticonvulsant activity in anesthetic doses .
However , of the drugs in this class , only phenobarbital , mephobarbital , and metharbital are effective as oral anticonvulsants in subhypnotic doses .
Barbiturates are respiratory depressants , and the degree of respiratory depression is dependent upon the dose .
With hypnotic doses , respiratory depression produced by barbiturates is similar to that which occurs during physiologic sleep and is accompanied by a slight decrease in blood pressure and heart rate .
Studies in laboratory animals have shown that barbiturates cause reduction in the tone and contractility of the uterus , ureters , and urinary bladder .
However , concentrations of the drugs required to produce this effect in humans are not reached with sedative - hypnotic doses .
Barbiturates do not impair normal hepatic function but have been shown to induce liver microsomal enzymes , thus increasing and / or altering the metabolism of barbiturates and other drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Pharmacokinetics - Barbiturates are absorbed in varying degrees following oral or parenteral administration .
The salts are more rapidly absorbed than are the acids .
The rate of absorption is increased if the sodium salt is ingested as a dilute solution or taken on an empty stomach .
The onset of action for oral administration of barbiturates varies from 20 to 60 minutes .
For intramuscular ( IM ) administration , the onset of action is slightly faster .
Following intravenous ( IV ) administration , the onset of action ranges from almost immediately for pentobarbital sodium to 5 minutes for phenobarbital sodium .
Maximal CNS depression may not occur until 15 minutes or more after IV administration for phenobarbital sodium .
Duration of action , which is related to the rate at which the barbiturates are redistributed throughout the body , varies among persons and in the same person from time to time .
Amobarbital sodium , an intermediate - acting barbiturate , is a CNS depressant .
For the oral form , the onset of sedative and hypnotic action is 3 / 4 to 1 hour , with a duration of action ranging from 6 to 8 hours .
These values should serve as a guide but not be used to predict exact duration of effect .
No studies have demonstrated that the different routes of administration are equivalent with respect to bioavailability .
Barbiturates are weak acids that are absorbed and rapidly distributed to all tissues and fluids , with high concentrations in the brain , liver , and kidneys .
Lipid solubility of the barbiturates is the dominant factor in their distribution within the body .
The more lipid soluble the barbiturate , the more rapidly it penetrates all tissues of the body .
Barbiturates are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree , with the degree of binding increasing directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Phenobarbital has the lowest lipid solubility , lowest plasma binding , lowest brain protein binding , the longest delay in onset of activity , and the longest duration of action .
At the opposite extreme is secobarbital , which has the highest lipid solubility , highest plasma protein binding , highest brain protein binding , the shortest delay in onset of activity , and the shortest duration of action .
Amobarbital sodium is classified as an intermediate barbiturate .
The plasma half - life for amobarbital sodium in adults ranges between 16 and 40 hours , with a mean of 25 hours .
Barbiturates are metabolized primarily by the hepatic microsomal enzyme system , and the metabolic products are excreted in the urine and , less commonly , in the feces .
Only a negligible amount of amobarbital sodium is eliminated unchanged in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • A . Sedative • B . Hypnotic , for the short - term treatment of insomnia , since it appears to lose its effectiveness for sleep induction and sleep maintenance after 2 weeks ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
• C . Preanesthetic CONTRAINDICATIONS Amobarbital sodium is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to barbiturates , in patients with a history of manifest or latent porphyria , and in patients with marked impairment of liver function or respiratory disease in which dyspnea or obstruction is evident .
WARNINGS • 1 .
Habit Forming — Amobarbital sodium may be habit forming .
Tolerance , psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Patients who have psychological dependence on barbiturates may increase the dosage or decrease the dosage interval without consulting a physician and may subsequently develop a physical dependence on barbiturates .
In order to minimize the possibility of overdosage or the development of dependence , the prescribing and dispensing of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates should be limited to the amount required for the interval until the next appointment .
Abrupt cessation after prolonged use in a person who is dependent on the drug may result in withdrawal symptoms , including delirium , convulsions , and possibly death .
Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive doses over long periods of time ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
• 2 .
Intravenous Administration — Too rapid administration may cause respiratory depression , apnea , laryngospasm , or vasodilation with fall in blood pressure .
• 3 .
Acute or Chronic Pain — Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked .
However , the use of barbiturates as sedatives in the postoperative surgical period and as adjuncts to cancer chemotherapy is well established .
• 4 .
Usage in Pregnancy — Barbiturates can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman .
Retrospective , case - controlled studies have suggested a connection between the maternal consumption of barbiturates and a higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities .
Barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues ; the highest concentrations are found in the placenta , fetal liver , and brain .
Fetal blood levels approach maternal blood levels following parenteral administration .
Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to women who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
If amobarbital sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
• 5 .
Synergistic Effects — The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects .
PRECAUTIONS General - Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continuing use ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Barbiturates should be administered with caution , if at all , to patients who are mentally depressed , have suicidal tendencies , or have a history of drug abuse .
Particular caution is also indicated before administering barbiturates to patients who have abused other classes of drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
Elderly or debilitated patients may react to barbiturates with marked excitement , depression , or confusion .
In some persons , especially children , barbiturates repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression .
In patients with hepatic damage , barbiturates should be administered with caution and initially in reduced doses .
Barbiturates should not be administered to patients showing the premonitory signs of hepatic coma .
Parenteral solutions of barbiturates are highly alkaline .
Therefore , extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular extravasation or intra - arterial injection .
Extravascular injection may cause local tissue damage with subsequent necrosis ; consequences of intra - arterial injection may vary from transient pain to gangrene of the limb .
Any complaint of pain in the limb warrants stopping the injection .
The systemic effects of exogenous and endogenous corticosteroids may be diminished by amobarbital sodium .
Thus , this product should be administered with caution to patients with borderline hypoadrenal function , regardless of whether it is of pituitary or of primary adrenal origin .
Information for Patients - The following information should be given to patients receiving barbiturates : • 1 .
The use of barbiturates carries with it an associated risk of psychological and / or physical dependence .
• 2 .
Barbiturates may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
• 3 .
Alcohol should not be consumed while taking barbiturates .
The concurrent use of the barbiturates with other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , narcotics , tranquilizers , and antihistamines ) may result in additional CNS depressant effects .
Laboratory Tests - Prolonged therapy with barbiturates should be accompanied by periodic evaluation of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal , and hepatic systems ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions - Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital .
However , the application of these data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies .
• 1 .
Anticoagulants — Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time .
Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes , resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants ( e . g . , warfarin , acenocoumarol , dicumarol , and phenprocoumon ) .
Patients stabilized on anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
• 2 .
Corticosteroids — Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids , probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes .
Patients stabilized on corticosteroid therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
• 3 .
Griseofulvin — Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin , thus decreasing its blood level .
The effect of the resultant decreased blood levels of griseofulvin on therapeutic response has not been established .
However , it would be preferable to avoid concomitant administration of these drugs .
• 4 .
Doxycycline — Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half - life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued .
This mechanism is probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes that metabolize the antibiotic .
If amobarbital sodium and doxycycline are administered concurrently , the clinical response to doxycycline should be monitored closely .
• 5 .
Phenytoin , Sodium Valproate , Valproic Acid — The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable .
Some investigators report an accelerating effect , whereas others report no effect .
Because the effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin is not predictable , phenytoin and barbiturate blood levels should be monitored more frequently if these drugs are given concurrently .
Sodium valproate and valproic acid appear to increase the amobarbital sodium serum levels ; therefore , amobarbital sodium blood levels should be closely monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made as clinically indicated .
• 6 .
CNS Depressants — The concomitant use of other CNS depressants , including other sedatives or hypnotics , antihistamines , tranquilizers , or alcohol , may produce additive depressant effects .
• 7 .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) — MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates , probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited .
• 8 .
Estradiol , Estrone , Progesterone , and Other Steroidal Hormones — Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism .
There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs ( e . g . , phenobarbital ) who become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives .
An alternate contraceptive method might be suggested to women taking barbiturates .
Carcinogenesis - • 1 .
Animal Data - Phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in mice and rats after lifetime administration .
In mice , it produced benign and malignant liver cell tumors .
In rats , benign liver cell tumors were observed very late in life .
• 2 .
Human Data — In a 29 - year epidemiologic study of 9 , 136 patients who were treated on an anticonvulsant protocol that included phenobarbital , results indicated a higher than normal incidence of hepatic carcinoma .
Previously , some of these patients had been treated with thorotrast , a drug that is known to produce hepatic carcinomas .
Thus , this study did not provide sufficient evidence that phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in humans .
A retrospective study of 84 children with brain tumors matched to 73 normal controls and 78 cancer controls ( malignant disease other than brain tumors ) suggested an association between exposure to barbiturates prenatally and an increased incidence of brain tumors .
Usage in Pregnancy - • 1 .
Teratogenic Effects - ( See WARNINGS , Usage in Pregnancy . )
• 2 .
Nonteratogenic Effects — Reports of infants suffering from long - term barbiturate exposure in utero included the acute withdrawal syndrome of seizures and hyperirritability from birth to a delayed onset of up to 14 days ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Labor and Delivery - Hypnotic doses of barbiturates do not appear to impair uterine activity significantly during labor .
Full anesthetic doses of barbiturates decrease the force and frequency of uterine contractions .
Administration of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates to the mother during labor may result in respiratory depression in the newborn .
Premature infants are particularly susceptible to the depressant effects of barbiturates .
If barbiturates are used during labor and delivery , resuscitation equipment should be available .
Data are not available to evaluate the effect of barbiturates when forceps delivery or other intervention is necessary or to determine the effect of barbiturates on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child .
Nursing Mothers - Caution should be exercised when amobarbital sodium is administered to a nursing woman because small amounts of barbiturates are excreted in the milk .
Usage in Children - Safety and effectiveness have not been established in children below the age of 6 years .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions and their incidence were compiled from surveillance of thousands of hospitalized patients who received barbiturates .
Because such patients may be less aware of certain of the milder adverse effects of barbiturates , the incidence of these reactions may be somewhat higher in fully ambulatory patients .
More than 1 in 100 Patients The most common adverse reaction , estimated to occur at a rate of 1 to 3 patients per 100 , is the following : Nervous System : Somnolence Less than 1 in 100 Patients Adverse reactions estimated to occur at a rate of less than 1 in 100 patients are listed below , grouped by organ system and by decreasing order of occurrence : Nervous System : Agitation , confusion , hyperkinesia , ataxia , CNS depression , nightmares , nervousness , psychiatric disturbance , hallucinations , insomnia , anxiety , dizziness , abnormality in thinking Respiratory System : Hypoventilation , apnea , postoperative atelectasis Cardiovascular System : Bradycardia , hypotension , syncope Digestive System : Nausea , vomiting , constipation Other Reported Reactions : Headache , injection site reactions , hypersensitivity reactions ( angioedema , skin rashes , exfoliative dermatitis ) , fever , liver damage , megaloblastic anemia following chronic phenobarbital use To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Amobarbital sodium is a Schedule II drug .
Dependence - Barbiturates may be habit - forming .
Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur , especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
Daily administration in excess of 400 mg of pentobarbital or secobarbital for approximately 90 days is likely to produce some degree of physical dependence .
A dosage of 600 to 800 mg for at least 35 days is sufficient to produce withdrawal seizures .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1 . 5 g .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than twofold .
As this occurs , the margin between intoxicating dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
Symptoms of acute intoxication with barbiturates include unsteady gait , slurred speech , and sustained nystagmus .
Mental signs of chronic intoxication include confusion , poor judgment , irritability , insomnia , and somatic complaints .
Symptoms of barbiturate dependence are similar to those of chronic alcoholism .
If an individual appears to be intoxicated with alcohol to a degree that is radically disproportionate to the amount of alcohol in his or her blood , the use of barbiturates should be suspected .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
The symptoms of barbiturate withdrawal can be severe and may cause death .
Minor withdrawal symptoms may appear 8 to 12 hours after the last dose of a barbiturate .
These symptoms usually appear in the following order : anxiety , muscle twitching , tremor of hands and fingers , progressive weakness , dizziness , distortion in visual perception , nausea , vomiting , insomnia , and orthostatic hypotension .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( i . e . , convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of barbiturates .
The intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Individuals susceptible to barbiturate abuse and dependence include alcoholics and opiate abusers , as well as other sedative - hypnotic and amphetamine abusers .
Drug dependence on barbiturates arises from repeated administration on a continuous basis , generally in amounts exceeding therapeutic dose levels .
The characteristics of drug dependence on barbiturates include : ( a ) a strong desire or need to continue taking the drug ; ( b ) a tendency to increase the dose ; ( c ) a psychic dependence on the effects of the drug related to subjective and individual appreciation of those effects ; and ( d ) a physical dependence on the effects of the drug , requiring its presence for maintenance of homeostasis and resulting in a definite , characteristic , and self - limited abstinence syndrome when the drug is withdrawn .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
In all cases , withdrawal requires an extended period of time .
One method involves substituting a 30 mg dose of phenobarbital for each 100 to 200 mg dose of barbiturate that the patient has been taking .
The total daily amount of phenobarbital is then administered in 3 or 4 divided doses , not to exceed 600 mg daily .
If signs of withdrawal occur on the first day of treatment , a loading dose of 100 to 200 mg of phenobarbital may be administered intramuscularly in addition to the oral dose .
After stabilization on phenobarbital , the total daily dose is decreased by 30 mg / day as long as withdrawal is proceeding smoothly .
A modification of this regimen involves initiating treatment at the patient ’ s regular dosage level and decreasing the daily dosage by 10 % if tolerated by the patient .
Infants that are physically dependent on barbiturates may be given phenobarbital , 3 to 10 mg / kg / day .
After withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , hyperactivity , disturbed sleep , tremors , and hyperreflexia ) are relieved , the dosage of phenobarbital should be gradually decreased and completely withdrawn over a 2 - week period .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic dose of barbiturates varies considerably .
In general , an oral dose of 1 g of most barbiturates produces serious poisoning in an adult .
Toxic effects and fatalities have occurred following overdoses of amobarbital sodium alone and in combination with other CNS depressants .
Death commonly occurs after 2 to 10 g of ingested barbiturate .
The sedated , therapeutic blood levels of amobarbital range between 2 to 10 mcg / mL ; the usual lethal blood level ranges from 40 to 80 mcg / mL .
Barbiturate intoxication may be confused with alcoholism , bromide intoxication , and various neurologic disorders .
Potential tolerance must be considered when evaluating significance of dose and plasma concentration .
Signs and Symptoms - Symptoms of oral overdose may occur within 15 minutes beginning with CNS depression , absent or sluggish reflexes , underventilation , hypotension , and hypothermia and may progress to pulmonary edema and death .
Hemorrhagic blisters may develop , especially at pressure points .
In extreme overdose , all electrical activity in the brain may cease , in which case a “ flat ” EEG normally equated with clinical death cannot be accepted .
This effect is fully reversible unless hypoxic damage occurs .
Consideration should be given to the possibility of barbiturate intoxication even in situations that appear to involve trauma .
Complications such as pneumonia , pulmonary edema , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , and renal failure may occur .
Uremia may increase CNS sensitivity to barbiturates if renal function is impaired .
Differential diagnosis should include hypoglycemia , head trauma , cerebrovascular accidents , convulsive states , and diabetic coma .
Treatment - To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) * .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Protect the patient ’ s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Diuresis and peritoneal dialysis are of little value ; hemodialysis and hemoperfusion enhance drug clearance and should be considered in serious poisoning .
If the patient has chronically abused sedatives , withdrawal reactions may be manifest following acute overdose .
PREPARATION OF SOLUTION Solutions of amobarbital sodium should be made up aseptically with Sterile Water for Injection .
The accompanying table will aid in preparing solutions of various concentrations .
Ordinarily , a 10 % solution is used .
After Sterile Water for Injection is added , the vial should be rotated to facilitate solution of the powder .
Do not shake the vial .
Several minutes may be required for the drug to dissolve completely , but under no circumstances should a solution be injected if it has not become absolutely clear within 5 minutes .
Also , a solution that forms a precipitate after clearing should not be used .
Amobarbital sodium hydrolyzes in solution or on exposure to air .
Not more than 30 minutes should elapse from the time the vial is opened until its contents are injected .
Prior to administration , parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution containers permit .
Quantity of Sterile Water for Injection Required to Dilute the Contents of a Given Vial of Amobarbital Sodium to Obtain the Percentages Listed .
Solutions Derived Will Be in Weight / Volume .
AMOBARBITAL SODIUM Content in Weight 1 % 2 . 5 % 5 % 10 % 20 % 0 . 5 g 50 mL 20 mL 10 mL 5 mL 2 . 5 mL DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of amobarbital sodium must be individualized with full knowledge of its particular characteristics and recommended rate of administration .
Factors of consideration are the patient ’ s age , weight , and condition .
The maximum single dose for an adult is 1 g . Intramuscular Use - Intramuscular injection of the sodium salts of barbiturates should be made deeply into a large muscle .
The average IM dose ranges from 65 mg to 0 . 5 g .
A volume of 5 mL ( irrespective of concentration ) should not be exceeded at any one site because of possible tissue irritation .
Twenty percent solutions may be used so that a small volume can contain a large dose .
After IM injection of a hypnotic dose , the patient ’ s vital signs should be monitored .
Superficial IM or subcutaneous injections may be painful and may produce sterile abscesses or sloughs .
Intravenous Use - Intravenous ( IV ) injection is restricted to conditions in which other routes are not feasible , either because the patient is unconscious ( as in cerebral hemorrhage , eclampsia , or status epilepticus ) , because the patient resists ( as in delirium ) , or because prompt action is imperative .
Slow IV injection is essential , and patients should be carefully observed during administration .
This requires that blood pressure , respiration , and cardiac function be maintained , vital signs be recorded and equipment for resuscitation and artificial ventilation be available .
The rate of IV injection for adults should not exceed 50 mg / min to prevent sleep or sudden respiratory depression .
The final dosage is determined to a great extent by the patient ’ s reaction to the slow administration of the drug .
Adults : a . Sedative : 30 to 50 mg given 2 or 3 times daily .
b . Hypnotic : 65 to 200 mg at bedtime .
Special Patient Population - Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates .
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease .
Ordinarily , an IV dose of 65 mg to 0 . 5 g may be given to a child 6 to 12 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED AMYTAL ® SODIUM Vials 0 . 5 g ( dry powder ) are available as follows : NDC 0187 - 4303 - 05 Storage : Store at ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) Lyophilized * Trademark of PDR Network , LLC Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Alcami Carolinas Corporation North Charleston , SC 29405 USA AMYTAL is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates Revised : July 2020 9476203 PC3328F PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 4303 - 05 1 Vial AMYTAL ® SODIUM CII ( amobarbital sodium ) FOR INJECTION , USP 0 . 5 g / vial For Intramuscular or Intravenous Use Only Sterile Rx only Bausch Health [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
