Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swalowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Avoid fire , flame heat and smoking .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Store at temperatures below 120 ° F ( 50 ° C ) .
Directions • shake well before use • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly onto face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients SD Alcohol 40 - B [ Alohol Denat . ]
, Water / Aqua / Eau , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Polyester - 8 , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Glycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Yellow 5 ( CI 19140 ) , Red 40 ( CI 16035 ) , Blue 1 ( CI 42090 ) Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 885 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) AUSTRALIAN GOLD INSTANT BRONZER 15 CONTINUOUS SPRAY SUNSCREEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
