Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone , USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • jewelry • detergents • cosmetics • psoriasis • seborrheic dermatitis • for external genital , feminine and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • for external feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor • for external anal itching : • do not use more than directed unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms last for more than 7 days • the condition gets worse • symptoms clear up and occur again in a few days • rectal bleeding occurs , consult doctor promptly Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age • do not use , consult a doctor For external anal itching Adults : when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water , rinse thoroughly , gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet issue or a soft cloth before application of this product Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor OTHER INFORMATION • Store at room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
• Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl myristate , methylparaben , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sorbic acid , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol , white wax .
May contain citric acid or sodium citrate solution to adjust pH . Questions ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday – Friday .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
