Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before use • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water / Aqua / Eau , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Glycerin , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Dimethicone , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Sodium Hydroxide , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Disodium EDTA , Propylene Glycol , Polysorbate 20 , Sorbitan Oleate , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract , Fragrance , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) AUSTRALIAN GLD ULTIMATE HYDRATION 30 SPRAY GEL SUNSCREEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
