PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT • 70 / 30 HUMANNovo Nordisk ® Patient Information for Novolin ® 70 / 30 NOVOLIN ® 70 / 30 ( NO - voe - lin ) 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) 100 units / mL Important : Know your insulin .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless told to do so by your healthcare provider .
The amount of insulin you take as well as the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take a different type of insulin .
Make sure that you know the type and strength of insulin that is prescribed for you .
Read the Patient Information leaflet that comes with Novolin ® 70 / 30 before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
What is Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
Novolin ® 70 / 30 is a man - made insulin ( recombinant DNA origin ) which is a mixture of 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection that is structurally identical to the insulin produced by the human pancreas that is used to control high blood sugar in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
Do not take Novolin ® 70 / 30 if : • • Your blood sugar is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
• • You are allergic to anything in Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
Check with your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
Tell your healthcare provider : • • about all of your medical conditions .
Medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
• • if you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 has not been studied in pregnant or nursing women .
• • about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Many medicines can affect your blood sugar levels and your insulin needs .
Your Novolin ® 70 / 30 dose may need to change if you take other medicines .
• • if you take any other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• • if you have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show all your healthcare providers when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
To mix Novolin ® 70 / 30 , roll gently and use right away .
This insulin should not be used if the liquid in the vial remains clear after the vial has been rolled gently .
Only use this insulin if it appears cloudy or milky .
There may be air bubbles .
This is normal .
If the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it , and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 comes in : • • 10 mL vials ( small bottles ) for use with syringe Read the instructions for use that come with your Novolin ® 70 / 30 product .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject Novolin ® 70 / 30 before you start taking it .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions to make changes to your insulin dose .
• • Take Novolin ® 70 / 30 exactly as prescribed .
• • Novolin ® 70 / 30 is an intermediate - acting insulin .
The effects of Novolin ® 70 / 30 start working ½ hour after injection .
• • The greatest blood sugar lowering effect is between 2 and 12 hours after the injection .
This blood sugar lowering may last up to 24 hours .
• • While using Novolin ® 70 / 30 , any change of insulin should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Doses of oral anti - diabetic medicines may also need to change , if your insulin is changed .
• • Do not mix Novolin ® 70 / 30 with any insulins .
• • Inject Novolin ® 70 / 30 into the skin of your stomach area , upper arms , buttocks or upper legs .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 may affect your blood sugar levels sooner if you inject it into the skin of your stomach area .
Never inject Novolin ® 70 / 30 into a vein or into a muscle .
• • Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the chosen area ( for example , stomach or upper arm ) with each dose .
Do not inject into the same spot for each injection .
• • If you take too much Novolin ® 70 / 30 , your blood sugar may fall low ( hypoglycemia ) .
You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and you could pass out ( become unconscious ) .
If you pass out , you will need help from another person or emergency medical services right away , and will need treatment with a glucagon injection or treatment at a hospital .
See “ What are the possible side effects of Novolin ® 70 / 30 ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• • If you forget to take your dose of Novolin ® 70 / 30 , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to diabetic ketoacidosis , which can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and talk to your healthcare provider if high blood sugar is a problem for you .
Severe or continuing high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) requires prompt evaluation and treatment by your healthcare provider .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and diabetic ketoacidosis which may include : • • • increased thirst • • frequent urination and dehydration • • confusion or drowsiness • • loss of appetite • • • fruity smell on breath • • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine • • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain • • a hard time breathing • • Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider how often you should check your blood sugar levels for hypoglycemia ( too low blood sugar ) and hyperglycemia ( too high blood sugar ) .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • • illness • • stress • • other medicines you take • • change in diet • • change in physical activity or exercise • • surgery See the end of this patient information for instructions about preparing and giving the injection .
What should I avoid while using Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
• • Alcohol .
Alcohol , including beer and wine , may affect your blood sugar when you take Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
• • Driving and operating machinery .
You may have difficulty concentrating or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright to drive if you often have : • • low blood sugar • • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar What are the possible side effects of Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
• • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Symptoms of hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) may include : • • sweating • • dizziness or lightheadedness • • shakiness • • hunger • • fast heart beat • • tingling of lips and tongue • • trouble concentrating or confusion • • blurred vision • • slurred speech • • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • • headache Severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can cause unconsciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , and death .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
• • Serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you develop a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• • Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions , or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need to stop using Novolin ® 70 / 30 and use a different insulin .
Do not inject insulin into skin that is red , swollen , or itchy .
• • Skin thickens or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
Change ( rotate ) where you inject your insulin to help prevent these skin changes from happening .
Do not inject insulin into this type of skin .
• • Swelling of your hands and feet • • Heart Failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Novolin ® 70 / 30 may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • • shortness of breath • • swelling of your ankles or feet • • sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and Novolin ® 70 / 30 may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
• • Vision changes • • Low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) These are not all of the possible side effects from Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Novolin ® 70 / 30 ?
All Unopened Novolin ® 70 / 30 : • • Keep all unopened Novolin ® 70 / 30 in the refrigerator between 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
• • Do not freeze .
Do not use Novolin ® 70 / 30 if it has been frozen .
• • If refrigeration is not possible , the unopened vial may be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) , as long as it is kept at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep unopened Novolin ® 70 / 30 in the carton to protect from light .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 in use : Vials • • Keep at room temperature below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) .
• • Keep vials away from direct heat or light .
• • Do not refrigerate an opened vial .
• • Throw away an opened vial after 6 weeks ( 42 days ) of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• • Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the Novolin ® 70 / 30 label , if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
General advice about Novolin ® 70 / 30 Novolin ® 70 / 30 is used for the treatment of diabetes only .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Novolin ® 70 / 30 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Novolin ® 70 / 30 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Novolin ® 70 / 30 .
If you would like more information about Novolin ® 70 / 30 or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or visit www . novonordisk - us . com .
Helpful information for people with diabetes is published by the American Diabetes Association , 1701 N Beauregard Street , Alexandria , VA 22311 and on www . diabetes . org .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 ingredients include : • • 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) • • Zinc chloride • • Sodium hydroxide • • Phenol • • Disodium phosphate dihydrate • • Metacresol • • Glycerol • • Hydrochloric acid • • Protamine sulfate • • Water for injections Date of issue : January 8 , 2016 Version : 7 Novolin ® and Novo Nordisk ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
© 2005 - 2016 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Novolin ® 70 / 30 contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 Patient Instructions for Use Novolin ® 70 / 30 10 mL vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) Before starting , gather all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and giving your insulin injection .
Never re - use syringes and needles .
How should I use the Novolin 70 / 30 vial ?
• 1 .
Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
• 2 .
Look at the vial and the insulin .
The insulin should be a cloudy or milky suspension .
The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap had been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
• 3 .
Wash your hands with soap and water .
If you clean your injection site with an alcohol swab , let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
• 4 .
If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
• 5 .
Roll the vial gently 10 times in your hands to mix it .
This procedure should be carried out with the vial in a horizontal position .
The rolling procedure must be repeated until the suspension appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or froth , which could cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
• 6 .
Pull back the plunger on the syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
• 7 .
Push the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial , and push the plunger all the way in to force air into the vial .
• 8 .
Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
• 9 .
If there are any air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles present in the syringe back into the vial .
• 10 .
Check to make sure you have the right dose of Novolin 70 / 30 in the syringe .
• 11 .
Pull the syringe with needle out of the vial ’ s rubber stopper .
• 12 .
Your doctor should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before inserting the needle .
This can vary from patient to patient so it is important to ask your doctor if you did not receive instructions on pinching the skin .
Insert the needle into the skin .
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the insulin .
When you are finished injecting the insulin , pull the needle out of your skin .
You may see a drop of Novolin 70 / 30 at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol wipe .
Do not rub the area .
• 13 .
After your injection , do not recap the needle .
Place used syringes , needles and used insulin vials in a disposable puncture - resistant sharps container , or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw on cap such as a detergent bottle or coffee can .
• 14 .
Ask your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be state or local laws about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycle .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0403 NDC : 50090 - 0403 - 0 10 mL in a VIAL Human Insulin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
