Active Ingredients ..... Purpose Avobenzone 1 . 9 % , Octinoxate 7 . 3 % , Octisalate 3 . 9 % , Octocrylene 6 . 9 % ........ Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For External Use Only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 oF .
Do not use in the presence of a flame , spark , or while smoking .
Do Not Use on damaged or broken skin .
For external use only .
When Using This Product : Do not spray product directly on face .
Spray onto hands and rub onto face .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop Use And Ask Doctor if skin rash occurs .
Keep Out Of Reach Of Children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes prior to sun exposure .
Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying , at least every 2 hours .
Children Under 6 Months Ask A Doctor .
Sun Protection Measure : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sun glasses .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Denat . , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Fragrance , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Linum Usitatissimum ( Linseed ) Seed Oil , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Tocopherol , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other Information May stain fabrics .
Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
