DESCRIPTION Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP is a sterile , long - acting preparation of the caproate ester of the naturally - occurring progestational hormone , hydroxyprogesterone , in an oil solution for intramuscular use .
The chemical name for hydroxyprogesterone caproate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 [ ( 1 - oxohexyl ) oxy ] .
It has a molecular formula of C27H40O4 and a molecular weight of 428 . 60 .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate exists as white or creamy white crystalline powder .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 5 mL multiple - dose vial contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate , 250 mg / mL , in castor oil ( 28 . 6 % v / v ) and benzyl benzoate ( 46 % v / v ) with the preservative benzyl alcohol ( 2 % v / v ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyprogesterone is a potent , long - acting , progestational steroid ester which transforms proliferative endothelium into secretory endothelium , induces mammary gland duct development , and inhibits the production and / or release of gonadotropic hormone ; it also shows slight estrogenic , androgenic , or corticoid effects as well , but should not be relied upon for these effects .
In advanced adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus , Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP in a dosage of 1 , 000 mg or more , one or more times each week , often induces regressive changes .
Absorption : Peak serum levels of hydroxyprogesterone caproate appeared after 3 to 7 days in non - pregnant female subjects following a single intramuscular injection of 1 , 000 mg hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
The pharmacokinetics of the 250 mg dose of hydroxyprogesterone caproate has not been evaluated in a study .
Metabolism : The conjugated metabolites include sulfated and glucuronidated products .
In vitro data indicate that the metabolism of hydroxyprogesterone caproate is predominantly mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 .
Excretion : Both conjugated metabolites and free steroids are excreted in the urine and feces , with the conjugated metabolites being prominent .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyprogesterone caproate has not been evaluated .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is extensively metabolized and hepatic impairment may reduce the elimination of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyprogesterone caproate has not been evaluated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP is indicated in non - pregnant women : for the treatment of advanced adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus ( Stage III or IV ) ; in the management of amenorrhea ( primary and secondary ) and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology , such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer ; as a test for endogenous estrogen production and for the production of secretory endometrium and desquamation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected carcinoma of the breast , other hormone - sensitive cancer , or history of these conditions ; undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding ; liver dysfunction or disease ; missed abortion , and in those with a history of hypersensitivity to the drug .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is also contraindicated as a diagnostic test for pregnancy and in patients with current or history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders .
WARNINGS Thrombotic and Thromboembolic Events Discontinue the medication pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia , or migraine .
Medication should be stopped if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions .
Allergic reactions Hypersensitivity reaction to progestins have been reported .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is contraindicated in women with a history of hypersensitivity to a progestin .
Glucose tolerance Progestins may decrease glucose tolerance and the blood glucose concentration should be monitored in diabetic users .
PRECAUTIONS Detectable amounts of progestins have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving the drug .
Many studies have found no adverse effects of progestins on breastfeeding performance , or on the health , growth , or development of the infant .
Because progestational drugs may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions that might be influenced by this effect , such as asthma , migraine , epilepsy , or cardiac or renal dysfunction require careful observation .
The pretreatment physical examination should include examination of the breasts and pelvic organs and a Papanicolaou smear .
In relation to irregular bleeding which does not respond predictably to the hormone therapy , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind and adequate diagnostic measures instituted .
Any influence of prolonged sex hormone medication on pituitary , ovarian , adrenal , hepatic , or uterine function awaits further study .
The pathologist should be advised of progesterone therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
Patients who have a history of psychic depression should be carefully observed and the drug discontinued if the depression recurs to a serious degree .
Information for The Patient Counsel patients that hydroxyprogesterone caproate injections may cause pain , soreness , swelling , itching or bruising .
Inform the patient to contact her physician if she notices increased discomfort over time , oozing of blood or fluid , or inflammatory reactions at the injection site .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A . Serious arterial thrombotic and venous thromboembolic events , including cases of pulmonary emboli ( some fatal ) , deep vein thrombosis , myocardial infarction , and strokes , have been reported in women using progestins .
B . neuroocular lesions ( e . g . , retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis ) ; nausea ; vomiting ; gastrointestinal symptoms ( such as abdominal cramps or bloating ) ; edema ; breakthrough bleeding , spotting , or withdrawal bleeding ; breast tenderness ; changes in body weight ( increase or decrease ) ; headache ; increase in cervical mucus ; allergic rash ; abscess ; pain at the injection site ; migraine headaches .
C . chloasma or melasma , cholestatic jaundice , rise in blood pressure , mental depression , and amenorrhea during or after treatment .
D . posttreatment anovulation , cystitis , hirsutism , loss of scalp hair , changes in libido , changes in appetite , dizziness , fatigue , backache , itching , or amenorrhea .
E .
The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins : hepatic function ( increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other tests ) ; coagulation tests ( increased in prothrombin and Factors VII , VIII , IX , and X ) ; thyroid function tests ( increase in PBI and butanol extractable protein - bound iodine , decrease in T3 uptake values .
A few instances of coughing , dyspnea , constriction of the chest , and / or allergic - like reactions have occurred following hydroxyprogesterone caproate therapy ; the likelihood of these occurring may be increased at higher dosage levels .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Suggested dosages are presented in the therapy guide .
Because of the low viscosity of the vehicle , Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP may be administered with a small gauge needle .
Care should be taken to inject the preparation deeply into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle following the usual precautions for intramuscular injection .
Since the 250 mg potency provides a high concentration in a small volume , particular care should be observed to administer the full dose .
Note : Use of a wet needle or syringe may cause the solution to become cloudy ; however , this does not affect the potency of the material .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Protect from light .
Store vial in its box .
Store upright .
Discard any unused product within 5 weeks after first use .
THERAPY GUIDE CYCLIC THERAPY SCHEDULE : ( 28 - day cycle ; repeated every 4 weeks ) ; Day 1 of each cycle : 20 mg Estradiol Valerate Injection , USP 2 weeks after Day 1 : 250 mg Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP and 5 mg Estradiol Valerate Injection , USP 4 weeks after Day 1 .
This is Day 1 of next cycle SUGGESTED CYCLIC REGIMEN Indications Dosage Started Repeated Stopped Comments Amenorrhea ( primary and secondary ) : Abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organicpathology , such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer .
375 mg Any time - - Genital malignancy should be excluded before hormone therapy is started .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is used as a “ Medical D and C ” to eliminate any proliferated endometrium from previous estrogenic action by conversion to secretory endometrium and desquamation .
To determine onset of normal cyclic functions , patient should be observed for 2 or 3 cycles after cessation of therapy .
Cyclic Therapy Schedule After 4 days of desquamation or , if there is no bleeding , 21 days after Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP alone Every 4 weeks After 4 cycles Production of secretory endometrium and desquamation Patients not on estrogen therapy : Cyclic Therapy Schedule Any time Every 4 weeks When cyclic therapy is no longer required If estrogen deficiency has been prolonged , menstruation may not occur until estrogen has been given for several months .
Patients currently on estrogen therapy : 375 mg Hydroxy progesterone Caproate Injection , USP Any time - - Cyclic Therapy Schedule After 4 days of desquamation or , if there is no bleeding , 21 days after Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP alone Every 4 weeks When cyclic therapy is no longer required SUGGESTED NON - CYCLIC REGIMEN Indications Dosage Started Repeated Stopped Comments Adenocarcinoma of uterine corpus in advanced stage ( Stage III or IV ) 1 , 000 mg or more At once 1 or more times each week ( 1 to 7 g per week ) When relapse occurs , or after 12 weeks with no objective response Should not be used in early stage ( Stage I or II ) in place of established anticancer therapy .
May be used in advanced stage concomitantly with other anticancer therapy ( surgery , α radiation , or chemotherapy , or combination of these ) .
Treatment results reported to date have been better in histologically well - differentiated forms of endometrial adenocarcinoma .
( The drug has not been adequately studied in non - endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus ) .
Test for endogenous estrogen production ( " Medical D and C " ) 250 mg Any time For confirmation , 4 weeks after 1 st injection After 2 nd injection Non - pregnant patient with responsive endometrium ; bleeding 7 to14 days after injection indicates endogenous estrogen .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP is available in vials providing hydroxyprogesterone caproate with a potency of 250 mg per mL .
The product is formulated in castor oil and 46 % benzyl benzoate and containing 2 % ( v / v ) benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP is a sterile , clear pale yellow to yellow color oily solution and is supplied as follows : 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vial Packaged Individually NDC 55150 - 311 - 01 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vials in a carton of 5 NDC 55150 - 311 - 05 Storage Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP should be stored at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Storage at low temperatures may result in the separation of some crystalline material which redissolves readily on heating in boiling water .
Protect from light .
Store vial in its box .
Store upright .
Discard any unused product within 5 weeks after first use .
The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex .
Distributed by : AuroMedics Pharma LLC 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road E . Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Eugia Pharma Specialities Limited Hyderabad – 500032 India Revised : June 2022 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) - Container Label Rx only NDC 55150 - 311 - 01 Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular Use Only 5 mL Multiple Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) – Container - Carton ( 1 vial ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 311 - 01 Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular Use Only 5 mL Multiple Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) – Container - Carton ( 5 vials ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 311 - 05 Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection , USP 1 , 250 mg per 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular Use Only 5 x 5 mL Multiple Dose Vials AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
