Rx Only NDC 69367 - 320 - 16 DESCRIPTION Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP is a stable and pleasant - tasting systemic alkalizer containing sodium citrate and citric acid in a sugar - free base .
It is a nonparticulate neutralizing buffer .
Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP contains in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) : Sodium Citrate Dihydrate 500 mg Citric Acid Monohydrate 334 mg Each mL contains 1 mEq Sodium Ion , and is equivalent to 1 mEq Bicarbonate ( HCO3 ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : grape flavor , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol solution .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium citrate is absorbed and metabolized to sodium bicarbonate , thus acting as a systemic alkalizer .
The effects are essentially those of chlorides before absorption and those of bicarbonates subsequently .
Oxidation is virtually complete so that less than 5 % of sodium citrate is excreted in the urine unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP is an effective alkalinizing agent .
It is useful in those conditions where long - term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable , and is of value in the alleviation of chronic metabolic acidosis , such as results from chronic renal insufficiency or the syndrome of renal tubular acidosis , especially when the administration of potassium salts is undesirable or contraindicated .
This product is also useful for buffering and neutralizing gastric hydrochloric acid quickly and effectively .
Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP is concentrated , and when administered after meals and before bedtime , allows one to maintain an alkaline urinary pH around the clock , usually without the necessity of a 2 A . M . dose .
This product alkalinizes the urine without producing a systemic alkalosis in the recommended dosage . This product is highly palatable , pleasant tasting , and tolerable , even when a administered for long periods .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with sodium - restricted diets , with severe renal impairment , or known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Discontinue use if adverse reactions occur .
PRECAUTIONS Sodium Citrate and Citrict Acid Oral Solution USP should be used with caution by patients with low urinary output unless under the supervision of a physician .
This product should not be administered concurrently with aluminum - based antacids .
Patients should be directed to dilute adequately with water and preferably , to take each dose after meals to avoid saline laxative effect .
Sodium salts should be used cautiously in patients with cardiac failure , hypertension , impaired renal function , peripheral and pulmonary edema , and toxemia of pregnancy .
Periodic examinations and determinations of serum electrolytes , particularly serum bicarbonate level , should be carried out in those patients with renal disease in order to avoid these complications ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP is generally well tolerated , without any unpleasant side effects , when given in recommended doses to patients with normal renal function and urinary output .
However , as with any alkalinizing agent , caution must be used in certain patients with abnormal renal mechanisms to avoid development of alkalosis , especially in the presence of hypocalcemia .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with sodium salts may cause diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting , hypernoia , and convulsions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP should be administered by diluting in water , followed by additional water , if desired .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
For Systemic Alkalization : Usual Adult Dosage : 2 to 6 teaspoonfuls ( 10 to 30 mL ) , diluted in 1 to 3 ounces of water , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
Usual Pediatric Dose : 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls ( 5 to 15 mL ) , diluted in 1 to 3 ounces of water , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
For children under two years of age , use is based on consultation with a physician .
As a neutralizing buffer : 3 teaspoonfuls ( 15 mL ) , diluted with 15 mL water , taken as a single dose , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP is a ( colorless , grape flavor ) solution and is supplied in the following oral dosage form : NDC 69367 - 320 - 16 ( 16 fl oz bottles ) .
STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information , contact 1 - 844 - 221 - 7294 Manufactured for : Westminster Pharmaceuticals LLC .
Nashville , TN 37217 Rev . 04 / 21 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC : 69367 - 320 - 16 Rx Only Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP 500 mg / 334 mg per 5 mL A SUGAR - FREE SYSTEMIC ALKALIZER EACH TEASPOONFUL ( 5 mL ) CONTAINS : SODIUM CITRATE DIHYDRATE 500 mg CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE 334 mg Each mL contains 1 mEq Sodium Ion , and is equivalent to 1 mEq Bicarbonate ( HCO3 ) .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE 16 FL OZ ( 473 mL ) Westminster Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
