For Oral Use Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of tetracycline hydrochloride and other antibacterial drugs , tetracycline hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Tetracycline is a yellow , odorless , crystalline powder .
Tetracycline is stable in air but exposure to strong sunlight causes it to darken .
Its potency is affected in solutions of pH below 2 and is rapidly destroyed by alkali hydroxide solutions .
Tetracycline is very slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in dilute acid and in alkali hydroxide solutions , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and in ether .
The chemical name for tetracycline hydrochloride is 4 - ( Dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 6 , 10 , 12 , - 12 a - pentahydroxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecar - boxamide monohydrochloride .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H24N208 • HCI M . W . 480 . 90 Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 250 mg or 500 mg tetracycline hydrochloride , and has the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C Yellow # 10 , gelatin , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , shellac glaze ( modified ) , stearic acid , and titanium dioxide .
The 250 mg capsules also contain black iron oxide , FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 500 mg capsules also contain ammonium hydroxide , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , and simethicone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Tetracyclines are readily absorbed and are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
They are concentrated by the liver in the bile and excreted in the urine and feces at high concentrations in a biologically active form .
Microbiology Tetracyclines are primarily bacteriostatic and exert their antimicrobial effect by the inhibition of protein synthesis .
Tetracycline is active against a wide range of gram - negative and gram - positive organisms .
The drugs in the tetracycline class have closely similar antimicrobial spectra , and cross - resistance among them is common .
While in vitro studies have demonstrated the susceptibility of most strains of the following microorganisms , clinical efficacy for infections other than those included in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section has not been documented .
Gram - negative Bacteria Neisseria gonorrhea Haemophilus ducreyi Haemophilus influenzae Yersinia pestis ( formerly Pasteurella pestis ) Francisella tularensis ( formerly Pasteurella tularensis ) Vibrio cholera ( formerly Vibrio comma ) Bartonella bacilliformis Brucella species Because many strains of the following groups of gram - negative microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility testing are recommended : Escherichia coli Klebsiella species Enterobacter aerogenes Shigella species Acinetobacter species ( formerly Mima species and Herellea species ) Bacteroides species Gram - positive Bacteria Because many strains of the following groups of gram - positive microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracycline , culture and susceptibility testing are recommended .
Up to 44 percent of strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and 74 percent of Streptococcus faecalis have been found to be resistant to tetracycline drugs .
Therefore , tetracyclines should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organisms have been demonstrated to be susceptible .
Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus pneumoniae Enterococcus group ( Streptococcus faecalis and Streptococcus faecium ) Alpha - hemolytic Streptococci ( viridans group ) Other microorganisms Chlamydia psittaci Chlamydia trachomatis Ureaplasma urealyticum Borrelia recurrentis Treponema pallidum Treponema pertenue Clostridia species Fusobacterium fusiforme Actinomyces species Bacillus anthraxis Propionibacterium acnes Entamoeba species Balantidium coli Susceptibility Testing A tetracycline disk may be used to determine microbial susceptibility to drugs in the tetracycline class .
If the Kirby - Bauer method of disk susceptibility testing is used , a 30 mcg tetracycline disk should give a zone of at least 19 mm when tested against a tetracycline susceptible bacterial strain .
Microorganisms may be considered susceptible if the MIC ( minimum inhibitory concentration ) is not more than 4 mcg / mL and intermediate if the MIC is 4 to 12 . 5 mcg / mL .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of tetracycline hydrochloride and other antibacterial drugs , tetracycline hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Tetracycline is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : • Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae .
Note : Tetracycline should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible .
• Lower respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae ( Eaton agent , and Klebsiella sp . )
• Skin and soft tissue infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , Staphylococcus aureaus .
( Tetracyclines are not the drugs of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infections . )
• Infections caused by rickettsia including Rocky Mountain spotted fever , typhus group infections , Q fever , rickettsialpox .
• Psittacosis or ornithosis caused by Chlamydia Psittaci .
• Infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis such as uncomplicated urethral , endocervical or rectal infections , inclusion conjunctivitis , trachoma , and lymphogranuloma venereum .
• Granuloma inquinale caused by Calymmatobacterium granulomatis .
• Relapsing fever caused by Borrelia sp .
• Bartonellosis caused by Bartonella bacilliformis .
• Chancroid caused by Hemophilus ducreyi .
• Tularemia caused by Francisella tularensis .
• Plaque caused by Yersinia pestis .
• Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae .
• Brucellosis caused by Brucella species ( tetracycline may be used in conjunction with an aminoglycoside ) .
• Infections due to Campylobacter fetus .
• As adjunctive therapy in intestinal amebiasis caused by Entamoeba histolytica .
• Urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli , Klebsiella , etc .
• Other infections caused by susceptible gram - negative organisms such as E . coli , Enterobacter aerogenes , Shigella sp . , Acinetobacter sp . , Klebsiella sp . , and Bacteroides sp .
• In severe acne , adjunctive therapy with tetracycline may be useful .
When penicillin is contraindicated , tetracyclines are alternative drugs in the treatment of the following infections : • Syphilis and yaws caused by Treponema pallidum and pertenue , respectively , • Vincent ’ s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme , • Infections caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , • Anthrax caused by Bacillus anthracis , • Infections due to Listeria monocytogenes , • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces species , • Infections due to Clostridium species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines .
WARNINGS THE USE OF DRUGS OF THE TETRACYCLINE CLASS DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT ( LAST HALF OF PREGNANCY , INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD TO THE AGE OF 8 YEARS ) MAY CAUSE PERMANENT DISCOLORATION OF THE TEETH ( YELLOW - GRAY - BROWN ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drugs but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
TETRACYCLINE DRUGS , THEREFORE , SHOULD NOT BE USED IN THIS AGE GROUP UNLESS OTHER DRUGS ARE NOT LIKELY TO BE EFFECTIVE OR ARE CONTRAINDICATED .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every six hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has also been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Tetracycline drugs should not be used during pregnancy unless absolutely necessary .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulation of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , lower than usual total doses are indicated , and , if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs .
Treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema .
The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired renal function , higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia and acidosis .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotics , use of this drug may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , the antibiotic should be discontinued and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
All infections due to Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci should be treated for at least ten days .
Bulging fontanels in infants and benign intracranial hypertension in adults have been reported in individuals receiving tetracyclines .
These conditions disappeared when the drug was discontinued .
Incision and drainage or other surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy , when indicated .
Prescribing tetracycline in the absence of proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including tetracycline should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When tetracycline is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by tetracycline or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Laboratory Tests In venereal diseases , when coexistent syphilis is suspected , dark field examinations should be done before treatment is started and the blood serology repeated monthly for at least four months .
In long - term therapy , periodic laboratory evaluation of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal and hepatic studies , should be performed .
Drug Interactions Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline in conjunction with penicillin or other bactericidal antibiotics .
Because the tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and preparations containing iron , zinc , or sodium bicarbonate .
Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies are currently being conducted to determine whether tetracycline hydrochloride has carcinogenic potential .
Some related antibiotics ( oxytetracycline , minocycline ) have shown evidence of oncogenic activity in rats .
In two in vitro mammalian cell assay systems ( L 51784 y mouse Iymphoma and Chinese hamster lung cells ) , there was evidence of mutagenicity at tetracycline hydrochloride concentrations of 60 and 10 mcg / mL , respectively .
Tetracycline hydrochloride had no effect on fertility when administered in the diet to male and female rats at a daily intake of 25 times the human dose .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D ( see WARNINGS ) Nonteratogenic Effects : ( see WARNINGS ) Pregnant women with renal disease may be more prone to develop tetracycline - associated liver failure .
Labor and Delivery The effect of tetracyclines on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reaction in nursing infants from tetracyclines , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal : anorexia , nausea , epigastric distress , vomiting , diarrhea , glossitis , black hairy tongue , dysphagia , enterocolitis , and inflammatory lesions ( with monilial overgrowth ) in the anogenital region .
Rare instances of esophagitis and esophageal ulceration have been reported in patients receiving particularly the capsule and also the tablet forms of tetracyclines .
Most of the patients were reported to have taken medication immediately before going to bed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Teeth : permanent discoloration of teeth may be caused during tooth development .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : maculopapular and erythematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported but is uncommon .
Onycholysis and discoloration of the nails have been reported rarely .
Photosensitivity is discussed in WARNINGS .
Renal toxicity : rise in BUN has been reported and is apparently dose related .
Liver : hepatotoxicity and liver failure have been observed in patients receiving large doses of tetracycline and in tetracycline - treated patients with renal impairment .
Hypersensitivity reactions : urticaria , angioneurotic edema , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid purpura , pericarditis , exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus , and serum sickness - like reactions , as fever , rash , and arthralgia .
Blood : hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , neutropenia and eosinophilia have been reported .
Other : bulging fontanels in infants and intracranial pressure in adults ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
When given over prolonged periods , tetracyclines have been reported to produce brown - black microscopic discoloration of thyroid glands .
No abnormalities of thyroid function studies are known to occur .
OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures .
Tetracycline is not dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Usual daily dose , 1 gram as 500 mg b . i . d . or 250 mg q . i . d . Higher doses such as 500 mg q . i . d . may be required for severe infections or for those infections which do not respond to the smaller doses .
Children above eight years of age Usual daily dose , 10 to 20 mg / lb ( 25 to 50 mg / kg ) body weight divided in four equal doses .
Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided .
For treatment of brucellosis , 500 mg tetracycline q . i . d . for three weeks should be accompanied by streptomycin , 1 gram intramuscularly twice daily the first week and once daily the second week .
For the treatment of syphilis in patients allergic to penicillin , the following dosage of tetracycline is recommended : early syphilis ( less than one year ’ s duration ) , 500 mg q . i . d . for 15 days .
Syphilis of more than one year ’ s duration ( except neurosyphilis ) , 500 mg q . i . d . for 30 days .
For treatment of gonorrhea , the recommended dose is 500 mg by mouth four times a day for seven days .
In cases of moderate to severe acne which , in the judgement of the clinician , require long - term treatment , the recommended initial dosage is 1 gram daily in divided doses .
When improvement is noted , dosage should be gradually reduced to maintenance levels ranging from 125 mg to 500 mg daily .
In some patients it may be possible to maintain adequate remission of lesions with alternate - day or intermittent therapy .
Tetracycline therapy of acne should augment the other standard measures known to be of value .
Duration of long - term treatment which can safely be recommended has not been established ( see WARNINGS and Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
Concomitant therapy Absorption of tetracycline is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and preparations containing iron , zinc , or sodium bicarbonate .
Food and some dairy products also interfere with absorption .
In the treatment of streptococcal infections , a therapeutic dose of tetracycline should be administered for at least ten days .
In patients with renal impairment ( see WARNINGS ) : total dosage should be decreased by reduction of recommended individual doses and / or by extending time intervals between doses .
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydiatrachomatis : 500 mg , by mouth , four times a day for at least seven days .
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid with the capsule formulation of tetracycline is recommended to wash down the drug and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 250 mg are available as orange opaque and yellow opaque capsules , imprinted with “ Z ” and “ 2416 ” in black ink , containing 250 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride , packaged in bottles of 100 and 1000 capsules , and unit - dose boxes of 100 capsules .
Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 500 mg are available as black and yellow capsules , imprinted with “ Z ” and “ 2407 ” in white ink , containing 500 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride , packaged in bottles of 100 and 1000 capsules , and unit - dose boxes of 100 capsules .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Hyperpigmentation of the thyroid has been produced by members of the tetracycline class in the following species : in rats by oxytetracycline , doxycycline , minocycline , tetracycline PO4 and methacycline ; in minipigs by doxycycline , minocycline , tetracycline PO4 and methacycline ; in dogs by doxycycline and minocycline ; in monkeys by minocycline .
Minocycline , tetracycline PO4 , methacycline , doxycycline , tetracycline base , oxytetracycline HCI and tetracycline HCI were goitrogenic in rats fed a low iodine diet .
This goitrogenic effect was accomplished by high radioactive iodine uptake .
Administration of minocycline also produced a large goiter with high radioiodine uptake in rats fed a relatively high iodine diet .
Treatment of various animal species with this class of drugs has also resulted in the induction of thyroid hyperplasia in the following : in rats and dogs ( minocycline ) , in chickens ( chlortetracycline ) and in rats and mice ( oxytetracycline ) .
Adrenal gland hyperplasia has been observed in goats and rats treated with oxytetracycline .
TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . B 3 / 2011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules USP 500 mg 100 s Label Text 0172 - 2407 - 60 TETRACYCLINE HYDROCHLORIDE Capsules USP 500 mg Rx only 100 CAPSULES TEVA Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc .
Grover Beach , CA 93433 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
