This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Hydrogen peroxide 3 % v / v .
Purpose : First Aid Antiseptic Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Use As an antiseptic to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , burns .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use • if the condition persists or gets worse • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area • Remove wipes • Rub together briskly until dry • No rinsing required • Do not reuse the towel , dispose immediately after use .
Other information • Do not apply internally • Store at temperature below 110 F ( 43 C ) • Hold away from face when opening Inactive ingredients purified water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 300 units NDC : 77251 - 007 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] - 000 - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
