This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use For hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria on the skin when water and soap are not available .
Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • Do not use near eyes .
When using this product , do not use near eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Stop use and contact a doctor if irritation or redness persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children unless under adult supervision .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Remove wipes • Rub hands together briskly until dry .
No rinsing required .
• Do not reuse the towel , dispose of it immediately after use .
Other information • Store at temperature below 110 F ( 43 C ) • Do not puncture or incinerate container Inactive ingredients purified water USP , glycerin Indications and Usage Dosage and Administration Active ingredients Inactive ingredients Package Label - Principal Display Panel 300 units NDC : 77251 - 006 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
