Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the management of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean skin thoroughly before applying this product • Apply product directly to the affected area .
• Leave on for 6 hours or overnight then remove .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other Information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive Ingredients Acrylates Copolymer , Water , Alcohol Denat . , Vinyl Caprolactam / VP / Dimethylaminoethyl , Methacrylate Copolymer , Butylene Glycol , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , PVP , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , Epilobium Angustifolium Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Extract , Volcanic Ash , Kaolin , Sodium Metabisulfite , Phytosphingosine , Sodium Hyaluronate .
How to use : Step 1 Prepare the area by cleansing Skin Step 2 Apply patch to blemish Step 3 Leave for 6 + hours or overnight Step 4 Remove patch .
Repeat if necessary .
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com | @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 | Made in Korea Spot Check Get those spots in check and wake up to clearer - looking skin .
Spot Check Acne Patches are individual , stay - in - place treatment patches formulated with Salicylic Acid to gently exfoliate , soothe irritation , and provide pore - purifying benefits .
Each patch works like a sponge to absorb excess oil and pus , while providing an occlusive barrier to stop the spread of acne - causing bacteria and potential scarring - reducing the risk of touching , picking , and popping .
SLMD Sandra Lee MD Skin Care by Dr . Pimple Popper Spot Check Acne Patches with Salicylic Acid Acne Treatment 48 Patches Spot Check Envelope ( Carton ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Spot Check Sachet ( Packette ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
