Rx only Revised : March 2009 To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin HCl and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
WARNING Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Because clindamycin therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis ” .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of therapy with clindamycin .
DESCRIPTION Clindamycin hydrochloride is the hydrated hydrochloride salt of clindamycin .
Clindamycin is a semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent compound lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin hydrochloride is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside monohydrochloride .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clindamycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP ( equivalent to 150 mg or 300 mg clindamycin ) contain the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , starch ( corn ) and talc .
The capsule shells contain : D & C Red No . 28 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
The 150 mg capsule shell also contains black iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Human Pharmacology : Serum level studies with a 150 mg oral dose of clindamycin hydrochloride in 24 normal adult volunteers showed that clindamycin was rapidly absorbed after oral administration .
An average peak serum level of 2 . 50 mcg / mL was reached in 45 minutes ; serum levels averaged 1 . 51 mcg / mL at 3 hours and 0 . 70 mcg / mL at 6 hours .
Absorption of an oral dose is virtually complete ( 90 % ) , and the concomitant administration of food does not appreciably modify the serum concentrations ; serum levels have been uniform and predictable from person to person and dose to dose .
Serum level studies following multiple doses of clindamycin hydrochloride for up to 14 days show no evidence of accumulation or altered metabolism of drug .
Serum half - life of clindamycin is increased slightly in patients with markedly reduced renal function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
Concentrations of clindamycin in the serum increased linearly with increased dose .
Serum levels exceed the MIC ( minimum inhibitory concentration ) for most indicated organisms for at least six hours following administration of the usually recommended doses .
Clindamycin is widely distributed in body fluids and tissues ( including bones ) .
The average biological half - life is 2 . 4 hours .
Approximately 10 % of the bioactivity is excreted in the urine and 3 . 6 % in the feces ; the remainder is excreted as bioinactive metabolites .
Doses of up to 2 grams of clindamycin per day for 14 days have been well tolerated by healthy volunteers , except that the incidence of gastrointestinal side effects is greater with the higher doses .
No significant levels of clindamycin are attained in the cerebrospinal fluid , even in the presence of inflamed meninges .
Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly volunteers ( 61 - 79 years ) and younger adults ( 18 - 39 years ) indicate that age alone does not alter clindamycin pharmacokinetics ( clearance , elimination half - life , volume of distribution , and area under the serum concentration - time curve ) after IV administration of clindamycin phosphate .
After oral administration of clindamycin hydrochloride , elimination half - life is increased to approximately 4 . 0 hours ( range 3 . 4 - 5 . 1 h ) in the elderly compared to 3 . 2 hours ( range 2 . 1 - 4 . 2 h ) in younger adults .
The extent of absorption , however , is not different between age groups and no dosage alteration is necessary for the elderly with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function .
Microbiology : Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
It has activity against Gram - positive aerobes and anaerobes as well as the Gram - negative anaerobes .
Clindamycin is bacteriostatic .
Cross - resistance between clindamycin and lincomycin is complete .
Antagonism in vitro has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin .
Clindamycin has been shown to be active against most of the isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Gram - positive aerobes Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) Streptococcus pneumoniae ( penicillin - susceptible strains ) Streptococcus pyogenes Anaerobes Prevotella melaninogenica Fusobacterium necrophorum Fusobacterium nucleatum Peptostreptococcus anaerobius Clostridium perfringens The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 % of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for clindamycin .
However , the safety and effectiveness of clindamycin in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - positive aerobes Staphylococcus epidermidis ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) Streptococcus agalactiae Streptococcus anginosus Streptococcus oralis Streptococcus mitis Anaerobes Prevotella intermedia Prevotella bivia Propionibacterium acnes Micromonas ( “ Peptostreptococcus ” ) micros Finegoldia ( “ Peptostreptococcus ” ) magna Actinomyces israelii Clostridium clostridioforme Eubacterium lentum SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING METHODS NOTE : Susceptibility testing by dilution methods requires the use of clindamycin susceptibility powder .
When available , the results of in vitro susceptibility tests should be provided to the physician as periodic reports that describe the susceptibility profile of nosocomial and community - acquired pathogens .
These reports should aid the physician in selecting the most effective antimicrobial .
Dilution Techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method ( broth and agar ) 1 , 2 , 3 or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of clindamycin powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the criteria provided in Table 1 .
Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require the measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure 2 , 3 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 2 mcg of clindamycin to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to clindamycin .
The disk diffusion interpretive criteria are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Susceptibility Interpretive Criteria for Clindamycin Susceptibility Interpretive Criteria Minimal Inhibitory Concentrations Disk Diffusion Pathogen ( MIC in mcg / mL ) ( Zone Diameters in mm ) S I R S I R a These interpretive standards for S . pneumoniae and other Streptococcus spp .
are applicable only to tests performed by broth microdilution using cation - adjusted Mueller - Hinton broth with 2 to 5 % lysed horse blood inoculated with a direct colony suspension and incubated in ambient air at 35 ° C for 20 to 24 hours .
b These zone diameter interpretive standards are applicable only to tests performed using Mueller - Hinton agar supplemented with 5 % sheep blood inoculated with a direct colony suspension and incubated in 5 % CO 2 at 35 ° C for 20 to 24 hours .
c These interpretive criteria are for all anaerobic bacterial pathogens ; no organism specific interpretive criteria are available .
NA = not applicable Staphylococcus spp .
≤ 0 . 5 1 - 2 ≥ 4 ≥ 21 15 - 20 ≤ 14 Streptococcus pneumoniae and other ≤ 0 . 25 a 0 . 5 ≥ 1 ≥ 19 b 16 - 18 ≤ 15 Streptococcus spp .
Anaerobic Bacteria c ≤ 2 4 ≥ 8 NA NA NA A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small , uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Quality Control Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of quality control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the test procedures .
Standard clindamycin powder should provide the following range of values noted in Table 2 .
NOTE : Quality control microorganisms are specific strains of organisms with intrinsic biological properties relating to resistance mechanisms and their genetic expression within bacteria ; the specific strains used for microbiological quality control are not clinically significant .
Table 2 .
Acceptable Quality Control Ranges for Clindamycin to be Used in Validation of Susceptibility Test Results Acceptable Quality Control Ranges Minimum Inhibitory Concentrations Disk Diffusion QC Strain ( MIC in mcg / mL ) ( Zone Diameters in mm ) NA = Not applicable d This organism may be used for validation of susceptibility test results when testing Streptococcus spp .
other than S . pneumoniae .
e This quality control range for S . pneumoniae is applicable only to tests performed by broth microdilution using cation - adjusted Mueller - Hinton broth with 2 to 5 % lysed horse blood inoculated with a direct colony suspension and incubated in ambient air at 35 ° C for 20 to 24 hours .
f This quality control zone diameter range is applicable only to tests performed using Mueller - Hinton agar supplemented with 5 % sheep blood inoculated with a direct colony suspension and incubated in 5 % CO 2 at 35 ° C for 20 to 24 hours .
ATCC ® is a registered trademark of the American Type Culture Collection When Testing Aerobic Pathogens Staphylococcus aureus 0 . 06 – 0 . 25 NA ATCC 29213 Staphylococcus aureus NA 24 – 30 ATCC 25923 Streptococcus 0 . 03 – 0 . 12 e 19 – 25 f pneumoniae ATCC 49619 d When Testing Strict Anaerobes Bacteroides fragilis 0 . 5 – 2 NA ATCC 25285 Bacteroides 2 – 8 NA thetaiotaomicron ATCC 29741 Eubacterium lentum 0 . 06 – 0 . 25 NA ATCC 43055 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Clindamycin is also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of colitis , as described in the WARNING box , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Anaerobes : Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema , anaerobic pneumonitis and lung abscess ; serious skin and soft tissue infections ; septicemia ; intra - abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess ( typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract ) ; infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection .
Streptococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Staphylococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Pneumococci : Serious respiratory tract infections .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin .
WARNINGS See WARNING box .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis . ”
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
Usage in Meningitis – Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When clindamycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Clindamycin hydrochloride should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Clindamycin hydrochloride should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
The use of clindamycin hydrochloride occasionally results in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms – particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
Clindamycin dosage modification may not be necessary in patients with renal disease .
In patients with moderate to severe liver disease , prolongation of clindamycin half - life has been found .
However , it was postulated from studies that when given every eight hours , accumulation should rarely occur .
Therefore , dosage modification in patients with liver disease may not be necessary .
However , periodic liver enzyme determinations should be made when treating patients with severe liver disease .
Prescribing clindamycin hydrochloride in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including clindamycin hydrochloride should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin hydrochloride is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin hydrochloride or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro .
Because of possible clinical significance , these two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 and 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 and 0 . 7 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk in the range of 0 . 7 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL .
Pediatric Use When clindamycin hydrochloride is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) , appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain , pseudomembranous colitis , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ( see WARNING box ) .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like ( maculopapular ) skin rashes are the most frequently reported adverse reactions .
Vesiculobullous rashes , as well as urticaria , have been observed during drug therapy .
Rare instances of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and a few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported .
Skin and Mucous Membranes Pruritus , vaginitis , and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
( See Hypersensitivity Reactions . )
Liver Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
Hematopoietic Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Musculoskeletal Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Significant mortality was observed in mice at an intravenous dose of 855 mg / kg and in rats at an oral or subcutaneous dose of approximately 2618 mg / kg .
In the mice , convulsions and depression were observed .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued ( see WARNING box ) .
Adults : Serious infections – 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours .
More severe infections – 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours .
Pediatric Patients : Serious infections – 8 to 16 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 8 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
More severe infections – 16 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 to 10 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
To avoid the possibility of esophageal irritation , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be taken with a full glass of water .
Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with clindamycin phosphate injection .
However , in clinically appropriate circumstances , the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should continue for at least 10 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 63739 - 059 NDC : 63739 - 059 - 10 100 CAPSULE in a BLISTER PACK ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY One year oral toxicity studies in Spartan Sprague - Dawley rats and beagle dogs at dose levels up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 and 5 . 4 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) have shown clindamycin to be well tolerated .
No appreciable difference in pathological findings has been observed between groups of animals treated with clindamycin and comparable control groups .
Rats receiving clindamycin hydrochloride at 600 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 . 2 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 ) for 6 months tolerated the drug well ; however , dogs dosed at this level ( approximately 10 . 8 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 ) vomited , would not eat , and lost weight .
REFERENCES 1 .
NCCLS .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - 5 th ed .
NCCLS document M7 - A5 , 2000 .
NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 .
2 .
NCCLS .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing : 13 th Informational Supplement .
NCCLS document M100 - S13 ( M2 & M7 ) , 2003 .
NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 .
3 .
NCCLS .
Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria 5 th ed .
Approved Standard .
NCCLS document M11 - A5 , 2001 .
NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 .
4 .
NCCLS .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - 8 th ed .
NCCLS document M2 - A8 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) , 2003 .
NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 .
Manufactured By : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed By : McKesson Packaging Concord , NC 28027 Revised : March 2009 0309 B IS - 059 - M04 - 04 - A Clindamycin Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
