DESCRIPTION : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution .
The osmolarity is 300 mOsmol per liter ( calculated ) .
Each mL contains : Sodium chloride 9 mg ; Water for Injection q . s .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is supplied only in single dose containers .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium chloride occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water .
It is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl — ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl — ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , when used only as a vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular , or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
PRECAUTIONS : Consult the manufacturer ' s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % containing additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Drug Interactions Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , or when combined in the same vehicle or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for single or multiple entry and withdrawal from all containers .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal intact .
Do not reuse single dose containers , discard unused portion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures and , if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
OVERDOSAGE : When used as a diluent , solvent or intravascular flushing solution , this parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Before Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use in flushing intravenous catheters .
Prior to and after administration of the medication , the intravenous catheter should be flushed in its entirety with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
Use in accord with any warnings or precautions appropriate to the medication being administered .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
How Supplied Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , preservative free , is available as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preservative Free .
Discard unused portion .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] FRESENIUS KABI Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 45764 F Revised : November 2020 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
