DESCRIPTION Dipyridamole Tablets USP are a platelet inhibitor chemically described as 2 , 2 ' , 2 '' , 2 ''' - [ ( 4 , 8 - Dipiperidinopyrimido [ 5 , 4 - ] pyrimidine - 2 , 6 - diyl ) dinitrilo ] - tetraethanol .
It has the following structural formula : d [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dipyridamole is an odorless yellow crystalline powder , having a bitter taste .
It is soluble in dilute acids , methanol and chloroform , and practically insoluble in water .
Dipyridamole Tablets USP for oral administration contain : dipyridamole USP 25 mg , 50 mg and 75 mg , respectively .
Active IngredientTABLETS 25 mg , 50 mg , and 75 mg : acacia , carnauba wax , corn starch , edible white ink , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , D & C red # 30 , helendon aluminum pink lake , sodium benzoate , methylparaben , propylparaben , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sucrose , talc , titanium dioxide , and white wax .
Inactive IngredientsTABLETS 25 mg , 50 mg , and75 mg : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY It is believed that platelet reactivity and interaction with prosthetic cardiac valve surfaces , resulting in abnormally shortened platelet survival time , is a significant factor in thromboembolic complications occurring in connection with prosthetic heart valve replacement .
Dipyridamole tablets have been found to lengthen abnormally shortened platelet survival time in a dose - dependent manner .
In three randomized controlled clinical trials involving 854 patients who had undergone surgical placement of a prosthetic heart valve , dipyridamole tablets , in combination with warfarin , decreased the incidence of postoperative thromboembolic events by 62 to 91 % compared to warfarin treatment alone .
The incidence of thromboembolic events in patients receiving the combination of dipyridamole tablets and warfarin ranged from 1 . 2 to 1 . 8 % .
In three additional studies involving 392 patients taking dipyridamole tablets and coumarin - like anticoagulants , the incidence of thromboembolic events ranged from 2 . 3 to 6 . 9 % .
In these trials , the coumarin anticoagulant was begun between 24 hours and 4 days postoperatively , and the dipyridamole tablets USP were begun between 24 hours and 10 days postoperatively .
The length of follow - up in these trials varied from 1 to 2 years .
Dipyridamole tablets do not influence prothrombin time or activity measurements when administered with warfarin .
Mechanism of Action Dipyridamole inhibits the uptake of adenosine into platelets , endothelial cells and erythrocytes and ; the inhibition occurs in a dose - dependent manner at therapeutic concentrations ( 0 . 5 - 1 . 9 μg / mL ) .
This inhibition results in an increase in local concentrations of adenosine which acts on the platelet A2 - receptor thereby stimulating platelet adenylate cyclase and increasing platelet cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) levels .
Via this mechanism , platelet aggregation is inhibited in response to various stimuli such as platelet activating factor ( PAF ) , collagen and adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) .
in vitroin vivo Dipyridamole inhibits phosphodiesterase ( PDE ) in various tissues .
While the inhibition of cAMPPDE is weak , therapeutic levels of dipyridamole inhibit cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - guanosine monophosphate - PDE ( cGMP - PDE ) , thereby augmenting the increase in cGMP produced by EDRF ( endothelium - derived relaxing factor , now identified as nitric oxide ) .
Hemodynamics In dogs intraduodenal doses of dipyridamole of 0 . 5 to 4 . 0 mg / kg produced dose - related decreases in systemic and coronary vascular resistance leading to decreases in systemic blood pressure and increases in coronary blood flow .
Onset of action was in about 24 minutes and effects persisted for about 3 hours .
Similar effects were observed following IV dipyridamole in doses ranging from 0 . 025 to 2 . 0 mg / kg .
In man the same qualitative hemodynamic effects have been observed .
However , acute intravenous administration of dipyridamole may worsen regional myocardial perfusion distal to partial occlusion of coronary arteries .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following an oral dose of dipyridamole tablets , the average time to peak concentration is about 75 minutes .
The decline in plasma concentration following a dose of dipyridamole tablets fits a two - compartment model .
The alpha half - life ( the initial decline following peak concentration ) is approximately 40 minutes .
The beta half - life ( the terminal decline in plasma concentration ) is approximately 10 hours .
Dipyridamole is highly bound to plasma proteins .
It is metabolized in the liver where it is conjugated as a glucuronide and excreted with the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dipyridamole Tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to coumarin anticoagulants in the prevention of postoperative thromboembolic complications of cardiac valve replacement .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to dipyridamole and any of the other components .
PRECAUTIONS General Dipyridamole has a vasodilatory effect and should be used with caution in patients with severe coronary artery disease ( e . g . , unstable angina or recently sustained myocardial infarction ) .
Chest pain may be aggravated in patients with underlying coronary artery disease who are receiving dipyridamole .
Coronary Artery Disease : Elevations of hepatic enzymes and hepatic failure have been reported in association with dipyridamole administration .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Dipyridamole should be used with caution in patients with hypotension since it can produce peripheral vasodilation .
Hypotension : Laboratory Tests Dipyridamole has been associated with elevated hepatic enzymes .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with dipyridamole tablets USP .
The following information was obtained from the literature .
Dipyridamole has been reported to increase the plasma levels and cardiovascular effects of adenosine .
Adjustment of adenosine dosage may be necessary .
Adenosine : Dipyridamole may counteract the anticholinesterase effect of cholinesterase inhibitors , thereby potentially aggravating myasthenia gravis .
Cholinesterase Inhibitors : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In studies in which dipyridamole was administered in the feed to mice ( up to 111 weeks in males and females ) and rats ( up to 128 weeks in males and up to 142 weeks in females ) , there was no evidence of drug - related carcinogenesis .
The highest dose administered in these studies ( 75 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m basis , about equivalent to the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ( MRHD ) in mice and about twice the MRHD in rats .
Mutagenicity tests of dipyridamole with bacterial and mammalian cell systems were negative .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility when dipyridamole was administered to male and female rats at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( about 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m basis ) .
A significant reduction in number of corpora lutea with consequent reduction in implantations and live fetuses was , however , observed at 1250 mg / kg ( more than 30 times the MRHD on a mg / m basis ) .
222 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effect Reproduction studies have been performed in mice , rabbits and rats at oral dipyridamole doses of up to 125 mg / kg , 40 mg / kg and 1000 mg / kg , respectively ( about 11 ⁄ 2 , 2 and 25 times the maximum recommended daily human oral dose , respectively , on a mg / m basis ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to dipyridamole .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , dipyridamole tablets should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Pregnancy Category B . 2 Nursing Mothers As dipyridamole is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when dipyridamole tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions at therapeutic doses are usually minimal and transient .
On long - term use of dipyridamole tablets initial side effects usually disappear .
The following reactions in Table 1 were reported in two heart valve replacement trials comparing dipyridamole tablets and war - farin therapy to either warfarin alone or warfarin and placebo : Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in 2 Heart Valve Replacement TrialsAdverse Reaction Dipyridamole Tablets / Warfarin Placebo / Warfarin Number of Patients 147 170 Dizziness 13 . 6 % 8 . 2 % Abdominal distress 6 . 1 % 3 . 5 % Headache 2 . 3 % 0 . 0 % Rash 2 . 3 % 1 . 1 % Other reactions from uncontrolled studies include diarrhea , vomiting , flushing and pruritus .
In addition , angina pectoris has been reported rarely and there have been rare reports of liver dysfunction .
On those uncommon occasions when adverse reactions have been persistent or intolerable , they have ceased on withdrawal of the medication .
When dipyridamole tablets USP were administered concomitantly with warfarin , bleeding was no greater in frequency or severity than that observed when warfarin was administered alone .
In rare cases , increased bleeding during or after surgery has been observed .
In post - marketing reporting experience , there have been rare reports of hypersensitivity reac - tions ( such as rash , urticaria , severe bronchospasm , and angioedema ) , larynx edema , fatigue , malaise , myalgia , arthritis , nausea , dyspepsia , paresthesia , hepatitis , thrombocytopenia , alo - pecia , cholelithiasis , hypotension , palpitation , and tachycardia .
OVERDOSAGE In case of real or suspected overdose , seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Careful medical management is essential .
Based upon the known hemodynamic effects of dipyridamole , symptoms such as warm feeling , flushes , sweating , restlessness , feeling of weakness and dizziness may occur .
A drop in blood pressure and tachycardia might also be observed .
Symptomatic treatment is recommended , possibly including a vasopressor drug .
Gastric lavage should be considered .
Administration of xanthine derivatives ( e . g . , aminophylline ) may reverse the hemodynamic effects of dipyridamole overdose .
Since dipyridamole is highly protein bound , dialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 75 - 100 mg four times daily as an adjunct to the usual warfarin therapy .
Please note that aspirin is not to be administered concomitantly with coumarin anticoagulants .
Adjunctive Use in Prophylaxis of Thromboembolism after Cardiac Valve Replacement .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 2996 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 TABLETS Dipyridamole 25 MG TAB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
