[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) 06 / 2021 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 5 , 2 . 6 ) 06 / 2021 Contraindications ( 4 ) 06 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) 06 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fesoterodine fumarate is indicated for the treatment of : • Overactive bladder ( OAB ) in adults with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Adult Overactive Bladder Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder ( OAB ) in adults with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • OAB in Adults : The recommended starting dosage is 4 mg orally once daily .
Based upon individual response and tolerability , increase the maximum dosage of 8 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Adult Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Refer to the full prescribing information for recommended dosage .
( 2 . 3 ) • Dosage Modifications Due to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Refer to the full prescribing information for recommended dosage .
( 2 . 5 ) • Administration : Swallow whole with liquid .
Do not chew , divide , or crush .
Take with or without food .
( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients with OAB The recommended starting dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in adults is 4 mg orally once daily .
Based upon individual response and tolerability , increase to the maximum dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg once daily .
For administration instructions , see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in adult patients with renal impairment is described in Table 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
For administration instructions , see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) .
Table 1 : Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended - Release Tablets Recommended Dose in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment ( Administered Orally Once Daily ) Estimated Creatinine Clearance1 Recommended Dose CLcr 30 to 89 mL / min 8 mg CLcr 15 to 29 mL / min 4 mg CLcr ˂ 15 mL / min 4 mg 1 Calculate CLcr using the Cockcroft - Gault formula Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 5 Fesoterodine fumarate Dosage Modifications Due to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Adult Patients with OAB The maximum recommended dosage is fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg orally once daily in adult patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For administration instructions , see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 6 Administration Instructions Swallow fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets whole with liquid .
Do not chew , divide , or crush .
Take with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 4 mg are light blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film - coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ' FS ' on the other side .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 8 mg are blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film - coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ‘ FT ’ on the other side .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 4 mg are light blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ' FS ' on the other side .
( 3 ) Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 8 mg are blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ‘ FT ’ on the other side .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with any of the following , • known or suspected hypersensitivity to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets or any of its ingredients , or to tolterodine tartrate tablets or tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
• Reactions have included angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • gastric retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Known or suspected hypersensitivity to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets or any of its ingredients or to tolterodine tartrate tablets or tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
( 4 ) • Urinary retention ( 4 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Angioedema : Promptly discontinue fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets and provide appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) .
• Urinary Retention : Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
( 5 . 2 ) • Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility : Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in patients with decreased gastrointestinal motility , such as those with severe constipation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility : Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in patients with decreased gastrointestinal motility , such as those with severe constipation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Worsening of Narrow Angle Glaucoma : Use fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets with caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma .
( 5 . 4 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets affects them ( 5 . 5 ) • Worsening of Myasthenia Gravis Symptoms : Use fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Angioedema Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue , and / or larynx has been reported with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets .
In some cases , angioedema occurred after the first dose ; however , cases have been reported to occur hours after the first dose or after multiple doses .
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life - threatening .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets contraindicated in patients with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets or any of its ingredients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If involvement of the tongue , hypopharynx , or larynx occurs , fesoterodine fumarate should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and / or measures to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided .
5 . 2 Urinary Retention in Adult Patients with Bladder Outlet Obstruction The use of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , like other antimuscarinic drugs , in patients with clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction , including patients with urinary retention , may result in further urinary retention and kidney injury .
The use of fesoterodine fumarate is not recommended in patients with clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction , and is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are associated with decreased gastric motility .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with gastric retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The use of Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with decreased gastrointestinal motility , such as those with severe constipation .
5 . 4 Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets can worsen controlled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Fesoterodine fumarate should be used with caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma ..
5 . 5 Central Nervous Systems Effects Fesoterodine fumarate is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including headache , dizziness , and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how fesoterodine fumarate affects them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered .
5 . 6 Worsening of Myasthenia Gravis Symptoms Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis due to the risk of worsening of symptoms of the disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Urinary Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Decreased Gastointestinal Motility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most frequently reported adverse events with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in adult patients with OAB ( ≥ 4 % ) were : dry mouth ( placebo , 7 % ; fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg , 19 % ; fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg , 35 % ) and constipation ( placebo , 2 % ; fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg , 4 % ; fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg , 6 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adult Overactive Bladder ( OAB ) The safety of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets was evaluated in Phase 2 and 3 controlled trials in a total of 2 , 859 patients with overactive bladder , of which 2 , 288 were treated with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets .
Of this total , 782 received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg / day , and 785 received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg / day with treatment periods of 8 - or 12 - weeks .
Approximately 80 % of these patients had greater than 10 - weeks of exposure to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in these trials .
A total of 1 , 964 patients participated in two 12 - week , Phase 3 efficacy and safety studies and subsequent open - label extension studies .
In these two studies combined , 554 patients received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg / day and 566 patients received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg / day .
In Phase 2 and 3 placebo - controlled trials combined , the incidences of serious adverse events in patients receiving placebo , fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg , and fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg were 1 . 9 % , 3 . 5 % , and 2 . 9 % , respectively .
All serious adverse events were judged to be not related or unlikely to be related to study medication by the investigator , except for four patients receiving fesoterodine fumarate who reported one serious adverse reaction each : angina , chest pain , gastroenteritis , and QT prolongation on ECG .
The most commonly reported adverse event in patients treated with fesoterodine fumarate was dry mouth .
The incidence of dry mouth was higher in those taking 8 mg / day ( 35 % ) and in those taking 4 mg / day ( 19 % ) , as compared to placebo ( 7 % ) .
Dry mouth led to discontinuation in 0 . 4 % , 0 . 4 % , and 0 . 8 % of patients receiving placebo , fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 mg , and fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg , respectively .
For those patients who reported dry mouth , most had their first occurrence of the event within the first month of treatment .
The second most commonly reported adverse event was constipation .
The incidence of constipation was 2 % in those taking placebo , 4 % in those taking 4 mg / day , and 6 % in those taking 8 mg / day .
Table 4 lists adverse events , regardless of causality , that were reported in the combined Phase 3 , randomized , placebo - controlled trials at an incidence greater than placebo and in 1 % or more of patients treated with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 4 or 8 mg once daily for up to 12 weeks .
Table 4 : Adverse Events with an Incidence Exceeding the Placebo Rate and Reported by ≥ 1 % of Patients from Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Phase 3 Trials of 12 - weeks Treatment Duration System organ class / Preferred term Placebo N = 554 % Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended - Release Tablets 4 mg / day N = 554 % Fesoterodine Fumarate Extneded - Release Tablets 8 mg / day N = 566 % Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth Constipation Dyspepsia Nausea 7 . 0 2 . 0 0 . 5 1 . 3 18 . 8 4 . 2 1 . 6 0 . 7 34 . 6 6 . 0 2 . 3 1 . 9 Abdominal pain upper 0 . 5 1 . 1 0 . 5 Infections Urinary tract infection 3 . 1 3 . 2 4 . 2 Upper respiratory tract infection 2 . 2 2 . 5 1 . 8 Eye disorders Dry eyes 0 1 . 4 3 . 7 Renal and urinary disorders Dysuria Urinary retention 0 . 7 0 . 2 1 . 3 1 . 1 1 . 6 1 . 4 Respiratory disorders Cough Dry throat 0 . 5 0 . 4 1 . 6 0 . 9 0 . 9 2 . 3 General disorders Edema peripheral 0 . 7 0 . 7 1 . 2 Musculoskeletal disorders Back pain 0 . 4 2 . 0 0 . 9 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 0 . 5 1 . 3 0 . 4 Investigations ALT increased GGT increased 0 . 9 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 4 1 . 2 1 . 2 Skin disorders Rash 0 . 5 0 . 7 1 . 1 ALT = alanine aminotransferase ; GGT = gamma glutamyltransferase Patients also received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets for up to three years in open - label extension phases of one Phase 2 and two Phase 3 controlled trials .
In all open - label trials combined , 857 , 701 , 529 , and 105 patients received fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets for at least 6 months , 1 year , 2 years , and 3 years , respectively .
The adverse events observed during long - term , open - label studies were similar to those observed in the 12 - week , placebo - controlled studies , and included dry mouth , constipation , dry eyes , dyspepsia , and abdominal pain .
Similar to the controlled studies , most adverse events of dry mouth and constipation were mild to moderate in intensity .
Serious adverse events , judged to be at least possibly related to study medication by the investigator and reported more than once during the open - label treatment period of up to 3 years , included urinary retention ( 3 cases ) , diverticulitis ( 3 cases ) , constipation ( 2 cases ) , irritable bowel syndrome ( 2 cases ) , and electrocardiogram QT corrected interval prolongation ( 2 cases ) .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of fesoterodin eextended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Palpitations Central nervous system disorders : Dizziness , headache , somnolence Eye disorders : Blurred vision General disorders and administrative site conditions : Hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema with airway obstruction , face edema Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Urticaria , pruritus 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Antimuscarinic Drugs Coadministration of fesoterodine fumarate with other antimuscarinic agents that produce dry mouth , constipation , urinary retention , and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
7 . 2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Doses of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets greater than 4 mg are not recommended in adult patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , and clarithromycin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
In a study in adults , coadministration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole with fesoterodine led to approximately a doubling of the maximum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) of 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine ( 5 - HMT ) , the active metabolite of fesoterodine .
Compared with CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers not taking ketoconazole , further increases in the exposure to 5 - HMT were observed in subjects who were CYP2D6 poor metabolizers taking ketoconazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There is no clinically relevant effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine .
Following blockade of CYP3A4 by coadministration of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor fluconazole 200 mg twice a day for 2 days , the average ( 90 % confidence interval ) increase in Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine was approximately 19 % ( 11 % to 28 % ) and 27 % ( 18 % to 36 % ) respectively .
No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , erythromycin , fluconazole , diltiazem , verapamil and grapefruit juice ) .
The effect of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . cimetidine ) was not examined ; it is not expected to be in excess of the effect of moderate inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
7 . 3 CYP3A4 Inducers No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of CYP3A4 inducers , such as rifampin and carbamazepine .
Following induction of CYP3A4 by coadministration of rifampin 600 mg once a day , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine decreased by approximately 70 % and 75 % , respectively , after oral administration of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets 8 mg .
The terminal half - life of the active metabolite was not changed .
7 . 4 CYP2D6 Inhibitors The interaction with CYP2D6 inhibitors was not tested clinically .
In poor metabolizers for CYP2D6 , representing a maximum CYP2D6 inhibition , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased 1 . 7 - and 2 - fold , respectively .
No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of CYP2D6 inhibitors .
7 . 5 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 In vitro data indicate that at therapeutic concentrations , the active metabolite of fesoterodine does not have the potential to inhibit or induce Cytochrome P450 enzyme systems [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 6 Oral Contraceptives In the presence of fesoterodine , there are no clinically significant changes in the plasma concentrations of combined oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 7 Warfarin A clinical study has shown that fesoterodine extended - release tablets 8 mg once daily has no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics or the anticoagulant activity ( PT / INR ) of warfarin 25 mg .
Standard therapeutic monitoring for warfarin should be continued [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 8 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Interactions between fesoterodine fumarate and laboratory tests have not been studied 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data with the use of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in pregnant women and adolescents to evaluate for a drug associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage , adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of fesoterodine to pregnant mice and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in fetotoxicity at maternal exposures that were 6 and 3 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 8 mg / day based on AUC ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
However , in the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No dose - related teratogenicity was observed in reproduction studies performed in mice and rabbits .
In mice at 6 to 27 times the expected exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 8 mg based on AUC ( 75 mg / kg / day , oral ) , increased resorptions and decreased live fetuses were observed .
One fetus with cleft palate was observed at each dose ( 15 , 45 , and 75 mg / kg / day ) , at an incidence within the background historical range .
In rabbits treated at 3 to 11 times the MRHD ( 27 mg / kg / day , oral ) , incompletely ossified sternebrae ( retardation of bone development ) and reduced survival were observed in fetuses .
In rabbits at 9 to 11 times the MRHD ( 4 . 5 mg / kg / day , subcutaneous ) , maternal toxicity and incompletely ossified sternebrae were observed in fetuses ( at an incidence within the background historical range ) .
In rabbits at 3 times the MRHD ( 1 . 5 mg / kg / day , subcutaneous ) , decreased maternal food consumption in the absence of any fetal effects was observed .
Oral administration of 30 mg / kg / day fesoterodine to mice in a pre - and post - natal development study resulted in decreased body weight of the dams and delayed ear opening of the pups .
No effects were noted on mating and reproduction of the F1 dams or on the F2 offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of fesoterodine fumarate in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for fesoterodine fumarate and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from fesoterodine fumarate or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of fesoterodine fumarate have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age or weighing 25 kg or less .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dose adjustment is recommended for the elderly .
The pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine are not significantly influenced by age .
Of the 1 , 567 patients who received fesoterodine fumarate 4 mg or 8 mg orally once daily in Phase 2 and 3 , placebo - controlled , efficacy and safety studies for OAB , 515 ( 33 % ) were 65 years of age or older , and 140 ( 9 % ) were 75 years of age or older .
No overall difference in effectiveness was observed between patients younger than 65 years of age and those 65 years of age or older in these studies ; However , the incidence of antimuscarinic adverse reactions , including dry mouth , constipation , dyspepsia , increase in residual urine , dizziness ( at 8 mg only ) and urinary tract infection , was higher in patients 75 years of age and older as compared to younger patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In adult patients with severe renal impairment ( CLCR < 30 mL / min ) , Cmax and AUC are increased 2 - and 2 . 3 - fold , respectively .
Doses of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets greater than 4 mg are not recommended in adult patients with severe renal impairment .
In patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( CLCR ranging from 30 to 80 mL / min ) , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased up to 1 . 5 - and 1 . 8 - fold , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have not been studied ; therefore fesoterodine fumarate is not recommended for use in these patients .
In patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased 1 . 4 - and 2 . 1 - fold , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with fesoterodine fumarate can result in severe anticholinergic effects .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
In the event of overdosage , ECG monitoring is recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets contains fesoterodine fumarate and is an extended - release tablet .
Fesoterodine is rapidly de - esterified to its active metabolite ( R ) - 2 - ( 3 - diisopropylamino - 1 - phenylpropyl ) - 4 - hydroxymethyl - phenol , or 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine , which is a muscarinic receptor antagonist .
Chemically , fesoterodine fumarate is designated as isobutyric acid 2 - ( ( R ) - 3 - diisopropylammonium - 1 - phenylpropyl ) - 4 - ( hydroxymethyl ) phenyl ester hydrogen fumarate .
The molecular formula is C30H41NO7 and its molecular weight is 527 . 4 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The asterisk ( * ) indicates the chiral carbon .
Fesoterodine fumarate is a white crystalline powder , which is freely soluble in water .
Each Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablet contains either 4 mg or 8 mg of fesoterodine fumarate and the following inactive ingredients : FD & C Blue # 2 , fructose , glyceryl behenate , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , lecithin soya , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc and titanium dioxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fesoterodine is a competitive muscarinic receptor antagonist .
After oral administration , fesoterodine is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed by nonspecific esterases to its active metabolite , 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine , which is responsible for the antimuscarinic activity of fesoterodine .
Muscarinic receptors play a role in contractions of urinary bladder smooth muscle .
Inhibition of these receptors in the bladder is presumed to be the mechanism by which fesoterodine produces its effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a urodynamic study involving patients with involuntary detrusor contractions , the effects after the administration of fesoterodine on the volume at first detrusor contraction and bladder capacity were assessed .
Administration of fesoterodine increased the volume at first detrusor contraction and bladder capacity in a dose - dependent manner .
These findings are consistent with an antimuscarinic effect on the bladder .
Cardiac Electrophysiology : The effect of fesoterodine 4 mg and 28 mg on the QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo - and positive - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg once a day ) parallel trial with once - daily treatment over a period of 3 days in 261 male and female subjects aged 44 to 65 years .
Electrocardiographic parameters were measured over a 24 - hour period at pre - dose , after the first administration , and after the third administration of study medication .
Fesoterodine 28 mg was chosen because this dose , when administered to CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers , results in an exposure to the active metabolite that is similar to the exposure in a CYP2D6 poor metabolizer receiving fesoterodine 8 mg together with CYP3A4 blockade .
Corrected QT intervals ( QTc ) were calculated using Fridericia ’ s correction and a linear individual correction method .
Analyses of 24 - hour average QTc , time - matched baseline - corrected QTc , and time - matched placebo - subtracted QTc intervals indicate that fesoterodine at doses of 4 and 28 mg / day did not prolong the QT interval .
The sensitivity of the study was confirmed by positive QTc prolongation by moxifloxacin .
In this study , conducted in subjects aged 44 to 65 years , fesoterodine fumarate was associated with an increase in heart rate that correlates with increasing dose .
When compared to placebo , the mean increase in heart rate associated with fesoterodine 4 mg / day and fesoterodine 28 mg / day was 3 beats / minute and 11 beats / minute , respectively .
In the two , phase 3 , placebo - controlled studies in adult in patients with overactive bladder , the mean increases in heart rate compared to placebo were 3 to 4 beats / minute in the fesoterodine 4 mg / day group and 3 to 5 beats / minute in the fesoterodine 8 mg / day group .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After oral administration , fesoterodine is well absorbed .
Due to rapid and extensive hydrolysis by nonspecific esterases to its active metabolite 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine , fesoterodine cannot be detected in plasma .
Bioavailability of the active metabolite is 52 % .
After single or multiple - dose oral administration of fesoterodine in doses from 4 mg to 28 mg , plasma concentrations of the active metabolite are proportional to the dose .
Maximum plasma levels are reached after approximately 5 hours .
No accumulation occurs after multiple - dose administration .
A summary of pharmacokinetic parameters for the active metabolite after a single dose of fesoterodine fumarate 4 mg and 8 mg in extensive and poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 is provided in Table 8 .
Table 8 : Summary of geometric mean [ CV ] pharmacokinetic parameters for the active metabolite after a single dose of fesoterodine fumarate 4 mg and 8 mg in extensive and poor CYP2D6 metabolizers Parameter Fesoterodine Fumarate 4 mg Fesoterodine Fumarate 8 mg EM ( N = 16 ) PM ( N = 8 ) EM ( N = 16 ) PM ( N = 8 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1 . 89 [ 43 % ] 3 . 45 [ 54 % ] 3 . 98 [ 28 % ] 6 . 90 [ 39 % ] AUC0 - tz ( ng * h / mL ) 21 . 2 [ 38 % ] 40 . 5 [ 31 % ] 45 . 3 [ 32 % ] 88 . 7 [ 36 % ] tmax ( h ) a 5 [ 2 to 6 ] 5 [ 5 to 6 ] 5 [ 3 to 6 ] 5 [ 5 to 6 ] t ½ ( h ) 7 . 31 [ 27 % ] 7 . 31 [ 30 % ] 8 . 59 [ 41 % ] 7 . 66 [ 21 % ] EM = extensive CYP2D6 metabolizer , PM = poor CYP2D6 metabolizer , CV = coefficient of variation Cmax = maximum plasma concentration , AUC0 - tz = area under the concentration time curve from zero up to the last measurable plasma concentration , tmax = time to reach Cmax , t ½ = terminal half - life a Data presented as median ( range ) Effect of Food : There is no clinically relevant effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine .
In a study of the effects of food on the pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine in 16 healthy male volunteers , concomitant food intake increased the active metabolite of fesoterodine AUC by approximately 19 % and Cmax by 18 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution : Plasma protein binding of the active metabolite is low ( approximately 50 % ) and is primarily bound to albumin and alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
The mean steady - state volume of distribution following intravenous infusion of the active metabolite is 169 L . Metabolism : After oral administration , fesoterodine is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed to its active metabolite .
The active metabolite is further metabolized in the liver to its carboxy , carboxy - N - desisopropyl , and N - desisopropyl metabolites via two major pathways involving CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 .
None of these metabolites contribute significantly to the antimuscarinic activity of fesoterodine .
Variability in CYP2D6 Metabolism : A subset of individuals ( approximately 7 % of Caucasians and approximately 2 % of African Americans ) are poor metabolizers for CYP2D6 .
Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased 1 . 7 - and 2 - fold , respectively , in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers , as compared to extensive metabolizers .
Excretion : Hepatic metabolism and renal excretion contribute significantly to the elimination of the active metabolite .
After oral administration of fesoterodine , approximately 70 % of the administered dose was recovered in urine as the active metabolite ( 16 % ) , carboxy metabolite ( 34 % ) , carboxy - N - desisopropyl metabolite ( 18 % ) , or N - desisopropyl metabolite ( 1 % ) , and a smaller amount ( 7 % ) was recovered in feces .
The terminal half - life of the active metabolite is approximately 4 hours following an intravenous administration .
The apparent terminal half - life following oral administration is approximately 7 hours .
Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations Geriatric Patients : \ Geriatric Patients : Following a single 8 mg oral dose of fesoterodine , the mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax for the active metabolite 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine in 12 elderly men ( mean age 67 years ) were 51 . 8 ± 26 . 1 h * ng / mL and 3 . 8 ± 1 . 7 ng / mL , respectively .
In the same study , the mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax in 12 young men ( mean age 30 years ) were 52 ± 31 . 5 h * ng / mL and 4 . 1 ± 2 . 1 ng / mL , respectively .
The pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine were not significantly influenced by age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Gender : Following a single 8 mg oral dose of fesoterodine , the mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax for the active metabolite 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine in 12 elderly men ( mean age 67 years ) were 51 . 8 ± 26 . 1 h * ng / mL and 3 . 8 ± 1 . 7 ng / mL , respectively .
In the same study , the mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax in 12 elderly women ( mean age 68 years ) were 56 ± 28 . 8 h * ng / mL and 4 . 6 ± 2 . 3 ng / mL , respectively .
The pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine were not significantly influenced by gender .
Race : The effects of Caucasian or Black race on the pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine were examined in a study of 12 Caucasian and 12 Black African young male volunteers .
Each subject received a single oral dose of 8 mg fesoterodine .
The mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax for the active metabolite 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine in Caucasian males were 73 ± 27 . 8 h * ng / mL and 6 . 1 ± 2 . 7 ng / mL , respectively .
The mean ( ± SD ) AUC and Cmax in Black males were 65 . 8 ± 23 . 2 h * ng / mL and 5 . 5 ± 1 . 9 ng / mL , respectively .
The pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine were not significantly influenced by race .
Renal Impairment : In patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( CLCR ranging from 30 to 80 mL / min ) , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased up to 1 . 5 - and 1 . 8 - fold , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
In patients with severe renal impairment ( CLCR < 30 mL / min ) , Cmax and AUC are increased 2 - and 2 . 3 - fold , respectively .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : In patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased 1 . 4 - and 2 . 1 - fold , respectively , as compared to healthy subjects .
Subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have not been studied [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug - Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 : At therapeutic concentrations , the active metabolite of fesoterodine does not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , or 3A4 , or induce CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 3A4 in vitro [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Following blockade of CYP3A4 by coadministration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole 200 mg twice a day for 5 days , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine increased 2 - and 2 . 3 - fold , respectively , after oral administration of fesoterodine fumarate 8 mg to CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers .
In CYP2D6 poor metabolizers , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine increased 2 . 1 - and 2 . 5 - fold , respectively , during coadministration of ketoconazole 200 mg twice a day for 5 days .
Cmax and AUC were 4 . 5 - and 5 . 7 - fold higher , respectively , in subjects who were CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and taking ketoconazole compared to subjects who were CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers and not taking ketoconazole .
In a separate study coadministering fesoterodine with ketoconazole 200 mg once a day for 5 days , the Cmax and AUC values of the active metabolite of fesoterodine were increased 2 . 2 - fold in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers and 1 . 5 - and 1 . 9 - fold , respectively , in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers .
Cmax and AUC were 3 . 4 - and 4 . 2 - fold higher , respectively , in subjects who were CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and taking ketoconazole compared to subjects who were CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers and not taking ketoconazole .
There is no clinically relevant effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of fesoterodine .
In a drug - drug interaction study evaluating the coadministration of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor fluconazole 200 mg twice a day for 2 days , a single 8 mg dose of fesoterodine was administered 1 hour following the first dose of fluconazole on day 1 of the study .
The average ( 90 % confidence interval ) for the increase in Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine was approximately 19 % ( 11 % to 28 % ) and 27 % ( 18 % to 36 % ) respectively .
The effect of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . cimetidine ) was not examined ; it is not expected to be in excess of the effect of moderate inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inducers : Following induction of CYP3A4 by coadministration of rifampicin 600 mg once a day , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine decreased by approximately 70 % and 75 % , respectively , after oral administration of fesoterodine fumarate 8 mg .
The terminal half - life of the active metabolite was not changed .
Induction of CYP3A4 may lead to reduced plasma levels .
No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of CYP3A4 inducers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors : The interaction with CYP2D6 inhibitors was not studied .
In poor metabolizers for CYP2D6 , representing a maximum CYP2D6 inhibition , Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are increased 1 . 7 - and 2 - fold , respectively .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Oral Contraceptives : Thirty healthy female subjects taking an oral contraceptive containing 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol and 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel were evaluated in a 2 - period crossover study .
Each subject was randomized to receive concomitant administration of either placebo or fesoterodine 8 mg once daily on days 1 to 14 of hormone cycle for 2 consecutive cycles .
Pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel were assessed on day 13 of each cycle .
Fesoterodine increased the AUC and Cmax of ethinyl estradiol by 1 – 3 % and decreased the AUC and Cmax of levonorgestrel by 11 to 13 % [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
Warfarin : In a cross - over study in 14 healthy male volunteers ( 18 to 55 years ) , a single oral dose of warfarin 25 mg was given either alone or on day 3 of once daily dosing for 9 days with fesoterodine 8 mg .
Compared to warfarin alone dosing , the Cmax and AUC of S - warfarin were lower by ~ 4 % , while the Cmax and AUC of R - warfarin were lower by approximately 8 % and 6 % for the co - administration , suggesting absence of a significant pharmacokinetic interaction .
There were no statistically significant changes in the measured pharmacodynamic parameters for anti - coagulant activity of warfarin ( INRmax , AUCINR ) , with only a small decrease noted in INRmax of ~ 3 % with the co - administration relative to warfarin alone .
INR versus time profiles across individual subjects in the study suggested some differences following co - administration with fesoterodine , although there was no definite trend with regard to the changes noted [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenicity No evidence of drug - related carcinogenicity was found in 24 month studies with oral administration to mice and rats .
The highest tolerated doses in mice ( females 45 to 60 mg / kg / day , males 30 to 45 mg / kg / day ) correspond to 11 to 19 times ( females ) and 4 to 9 times ( males ) the estimated human AUC values reached with fesoterodine 8 mg , which is the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) .
In rats , the highest tolerated dose ( 45 to 60 mg / kg / day ) corresponds to 3 to 8 times ( females ) and 3 to 14 times ( males ) the estimated human AUC at the MRHD .
Mutagenesis Fesoterodine was not mutagenic or genotoxic in vitro ( Ames tests , chromosome aberration tests ) or in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Impairment of Fertility Fesoterodine had no effect on male reproductive function or fertility at doses up to 45 mg / kg / day in mice .
At 45 mg / kg / day , a lower number of corpora lutea , implantation sites and viable fetuses was observed in female mice administered fesoterodine for 2 weeks prior to mating and continuing through day 7 of gestation .
The maternal No - Observed - Effect Level ( NOEL ) and the NOEL for effects on reproduction and early embryonic development were both 15 mg / kg / day .
At the NOEL , the systemic exposure , based on AUC , was 0 . 6 to 1 . 5 times higher in mice than in humans at the MRHD , whereas based on peak plasma concentrations , the exposure in mice was 5 to 9 times higher .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adult Overactive Bladder The efficacy of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets was evaluated in two , Phase 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , 12 - week studies for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency .
Entry criteria required that patients have symptoms of overactive bladder for ≥ 6 - months duration , at least 8 micturitions per day , and at least 6 urinary urgency episodes or 3 urge incontinence episodes per 3 - day diary period .
Patients were randomized to a fixed dose of fesoterodine fumarate 4 or 8 mg / day or placebo .
In one of these studies , 290 patients were randomized to an active control arm ( an oral antimuscarinic agent ) .
For the combined studies , a total of 554 patients received placebo , 554 patients received fesoterodine fumarate 4 mg / day , and 566 patients received fesoterodine fumarate 8 mg / day .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 91 % ) and female ( 79 % ) with a mean age of 58 years ( range 19 to 91 years ) .
The primary efficacy endpoints were the mean change in the number of urge urinary incontinence episodes per 24 hours and the mean change in the number of micturitions ( frequency ) per 24 hours .
An important secondary endpoint was the mean change in the voided volume per micturition .
Results for the primary endpoints and for mean change in voided volume per micturition from the two 12 week clinical studies of fesoterodine fumarate are reported in Table 10 .
Table 10 : Mean baseline and change from baseline to Week 12 for urge urinary incontinence episodes , number of micturitions , and volume voided per micturition Study 1 Study 2 Parameter Placebo N = 279 Fesoterodine Fumarate 4 mg / day N = 265 Fesoterodine Fumarate 8 mg / day N = 276 Placebo N = 266 Fesoterodine Fumarate 4 mg / day N = 267 Fesoterodine Fumarate 8 mg / dayN = 267 Number of urge incontinence episodes per 24 hoursa Baseline 3 . 7 3 . 8 3 . 7 3 . 7 3 . 9 3 . 9 Change from baseline - 1 . 20 - 2 . 06 - 2 . 27 - 1 - 1 . 77 - 2 . 42 p - value vs . placebo - 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 - < 0 . 003 < 0 . 001 Number of micturitions per 24 hours Baseline 12 11 . 6 11 . 9 12 . 2 12 . 9 12 Change from baseline - 1 . 02 - 1 . 74 - 1 . 94 - 1 . 02 - 1 . 86 - 1 . 94 p - value vs . placebo - < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 - 0 . 032 < 0 . 001 Voided volume per micturition ( mL ) Baseline 150 160 154 159 152 156 Change from baseline 10 27 33 8 17 33 p - value vs . placebo - < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 - 0 . 150 < 0 . 001 vs . = versus a Only those patients who were urge incontinent at baseline were included for the analysis of number of urge incontinence episodes per 24 hours : In Study 1 , the number of these patients was 211 , 199 , and 223 in the placebo , fesoterodine fumarate 4 mg / day and fesoterodine fumarate 8 mg / day groups , respectively .
In Study 2 , the number of these patients was 205 , 228 , and 218 , respectively .
Figures 1 - 4 : The following figures show change from baseline over time in number of micturitions and urge urinary incontinence episodes per 24 h in the two studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] A reduction in number of urge urinary incontinence episodes per 24 hours was observed for both doses as compared to placebo as early as two weeks after starting fesoterodine fumarate therapy .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 4 mg are light blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film - coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ' FS ' on the other side and are supplied in bottles of 30 ' s , and 90 ’ s .
Bottles of 30 NDC 43598 - 247 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 43598 - 247 - 90 Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 8 mg are blue colored , oval shaped , biconvex , film - coated , debossed with ‘ [ MULTIMEDIA ] ’ on one side and ‘ FT ’ on the other side and are supplied in bottles of 30 ' s , and 90 ’ s .
Bottles of 30 NDC 43598 - 248 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 43598 - 248 - 90 Store fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68º to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) Angioedema Inform patients and / or their caregivers that fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets may cause angioedema , which could result in life - threatening airway obstruction .
Advise patients and / or their caregivers to promptly discontinue fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets and seek immediate medical attention if they experience edema of the lips , tongue or laryngopharynx , or difficulty breathing .
Antimuscarinic Effects Inform patients that fesoterodine fumarate , like other antimuscarinic agents , may produce clinically significant adverse effects related to antimuscarinic pharmacological activity including constipation and urinary retention .
Fesoterodine fumarate , like other antimuscarinics , may be associated with blurred vision , therefore , patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until the drug ’ s effects on the patient have been determined .
Heat prostration ( due to decreased sweating ) can occur when fesoterodine fumarate , like other antimuscarinic drugs , is used in a hot environment .
Alcohol Patients should also be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by fesoterodine fumarate , like other anticholinergic agents .
Patients should read the patient leaflet entitled “ Patient Information Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended - release Tablets ” before starting therapy with fesoterodine fumarate .
RX only Distributor : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Made in India Issued : 03 / 2022 Patient Information Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended - release Tablets , for oral use ( FES oh TER oh deen ) Read the Patient Information that comes with fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provided about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine used : • in adults to treat symptoms of a condition called overactive bladder ( OAB ) , including urge urinary incontinence ( leaking or wetting accidents due to a strong need to urinate ) , urinary urgency ( having a strong need to urinate right away ) , or urinary frequency ( having to urinate too often ) .
It is not known if fesoterodine fumarate is safe and effective in children younger than 6 years of age or with a body weight 55 pounds ( 25 kg ) or less .
Who should not take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
Do not take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets if you : • are allergic to fesoterodine fumarate healthcare provided or any of its ingredients .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
• are allergic to tolterodine tartrate tablets or tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
• are not able to empty your bladder ( urinary retention ) .
• have delayed or slow emptying of your stomach ( gastric retention ) .
• have an eye problem called uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Before you take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have problems emptying your bladder or you have a weak urine stream .
• have any stomach or intestinal problems , or problems with constipation .
• are receiving treatment for an eye problem called narrow - angle glaucoma .
• have a condition called Myasthenia Gravis .
• have kidney problems • have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcareprovider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed ..
It is not known if fesoterodine fumarate passes into your breast milk .
You should talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while taking fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal products .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets work .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you are taking antimucarinc , antibiotics , or antifungal medicines .
Know all the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
• Take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider may lower your dose of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets if you are an adult with severe kidney problems .
• Take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets with liquid and swallow the tablet whole .
Do not chew , divide , or crush the tablet .
• Take fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets with or without food .
• If you miss a dose of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , begin taking fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets again the next day .
Do not take 2 doses of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in the same day .
• If you take too much fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , call your healthcare provider or go to an emergency department right away .
What should I avoid while taking Fesoterodine fumarateextended - release tablets ?
• Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets can cause blurred vision , dizziness , and drowsiness .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how fesoterodine fumarate affects you .
• Use caution in hot environments .
Decreased sweating and severe heat illness can happen when medicines such as fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets are used in a hot environment .
• Drinking alcohol while taking medicines such as fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets may cause increased drowsiness .
What are the possible side effects of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
Fesoterodine fumarateextended - release tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include swelling of the face , lips , throat or tongue .
If you have these symptoms , you should stop taking fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets and get emergency medical help right away .
• inability to empty bladder ( urinary retention ) .
Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets may increase your chances of not being able to empty your bladder if you have bladder outlet obstruction .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you are unable to empty your bladder .
• central nervous system ( CNS ) effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you get any of these side effects : headache , dizziness , and drowsiness .
• worsening of Myasthenia Gravis symptoms . The most common side effects of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets in adults include : • dry mouth • constipation Talk to your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
• Store fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tabletsbetween 68ºF to 77 ° F ( 20ºC to 25 ° C ) .
• Protect the medicine from moisture by keeping the bottle closed tightly .
• Keep fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use fumarate extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : fesoterodine fumarate Inactive ingredients : FD & C Blue # 2 , fructose , glyceryl behenate , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , lecithin soya , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc and titanium dioxide .
Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc . ’ s TOVIAZ ® ( fesoterodine fumarate ) extended - release tablets .
However , due to Pfizer Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
To reorder additional Patient Information Leaflets , please contact Dr . Reddy ' s Customer Service at 1 - 866 - 733 - 3952 .
RX only Distributor : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Made in India Issued : 03 / 2022 Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 4 mg Container Label - 30 ' s Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets , 8 mg Container Label - 30 ' s Count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
