Drug Facts Active Ingredient Titanium Dioxide 4 . 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For sunscreen use : • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every two hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Water / Aqua / Eau , Tricaprylyl Citrate , Phenyl Trimethicone , Jojoba Esters , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Glycerin , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Cetyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Caprylate , Capryloyl Glycine , Salix Nigra ( Willow ) Bark Extract , Polygonum Cuspidatum Root Extract , Tourmaline , Decyl Glucoside , Sodium Lauroyl Lactylate , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Xanthan Gum , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Aluminum Hydroxide , Disodium Coco - Glucoside Citrate , Sodium Gluconate , Citric Acid , [ + / - Titanium Dioxide ( CI 77891 ) , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 , CI 77492 , CI 77499 ) , Mica ] < ILN36354 > Other Information protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Aveda Corp . , Dist . , Minneapolis , MN 55449 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Tube Carton AVEDA THE ART AND SCIENCE OF PURE FLOWER AND PLANT ESSENCES INNER LIGHT ™ mineral tinted moisture broad spectrum spf 15 OIL - FREE LOTION 1 . 7 fl oz / 50 ml e [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
