WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY Do not administer Adempas to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females of reproductive potential : Exclude pregnancy before the start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and 1 month after stopping treatment .
To prevent pregnancy , females of reproductive potential must use effective forms of contraception during treatment and for one month after [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
For all female patients , Adempas is available only through a restricted program called the Adempas Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Do not administer Adempas to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm .
( 4 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • • Females of reproductive potential : Exclude pregnancy before start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and 1 month after treatment discontinuation .
Prevent pregnancy during treatment and for one month after treatment discontinuation by use of effective forms of contraception .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) • • For females , Adempas is available only through a restricted program called the Adempas REMS Program .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adempas is a soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulator indicated for the treatment of adults with : • • Persistent / recurrent Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension ( CTEPH ) ( WHO Group 4 ) after surgical treatment or inoperable CTEPH to improve exercise capacity and WHO functional class .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension ( PAH ) ( WHO Group 1 ) to improve exercise capacity , improve WHO functional class and to delay clinical worsening .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Chronic - Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension Adempas is indicated for the treatment of adults with persistent / recurrent chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension ( CTEPH ) , ( WHO Group 4 ) after surgical treatment , or inoperable CTEPH , to improve exercise capacity and WHO functional class [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Adempas is indicated for the treatment of adults with pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) , ( WHO Group 1 ) , to improve exercise capacity , WHO functional class and to delay clinical worsening .
Efficacy was shown in patients on Adempas monotherapy or in combination with endothelin receptor antagonists or prostanoids .
Studies establishing effectiveness included predominately patients with WHO functional class II – III and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH ( 61 % ) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases ( 25 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Initiate treatment at 1 mg taken three times a day .
( 2 . 1 ) • • For patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of Adempas , consider a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg , three times a day .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Increase dosage by 0 . 5 mg at intervals of no sooner than 2 - weeks as tolerated to a maximum of 2 . 5 mg three times a day .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Tablets may be crushed and mixed with water or soft foods for patients who have difficulty swallowing .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage is 1 mg taken 3 times a day .
For patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of Adempas , consider a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg taken three times a day .
If systolic blood pressure remains greater than 95 mmHg and the patient has no signs or symptoms of hypotension , up - titrate the dose by 0 . 5 mg taken three times a day .
Dose increases should be no sooner than 2 weeks apart .
The dose can be increased to the highest tolerated dosage , up to a maximum of 2 . 5 mg taken three times a day .
If at any time , the patient has symptoms of hypotension , decrease the dosage by 0 . 5 mg taken three times a day .
Crushed Tablets For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets , Adempas may be crushed and mixed with water or soft foods ( such as applesauce ) immediately before administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Interruption If a dose is missed , advise patients to continue with the next regularly scheduled dose .
In case Adempas is interrupted for 3 days or more , re - titrate Adempas .
2 . 3 Pregnancy Testing in Females of Reproductive Potential Obtain pregnancy tests prior to start of treatment and monthly during treatment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Use in Patients who Smoke Consider titrating to dosages higher than 2 . 5 mg three times a day , if tolerated , in patients who smoke .
A dose decrease may be required in patients who stop smoking [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP Inhibitors Consider a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg , three times a day when initiating Adempas in patients receiving strong cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) and P - glycoprotein / breast cancer resistance protein ( P - gp / BCRP ) inhibitors such as azole antimycotics ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) or HIV protease inhibitors ( for example , ritonavir ) .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and on treatment with strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 6 Transitioning to and from Adempas • • Discontinue sildenafil at least 24 hours prior to administering Adempas [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• • Discontinue tadalafil at least 48 hours prior to administering Adempas [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Consider initiating Adempas at a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg in patients at risk of hypotension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation .
• • Discontinue Adempas at least 24 hours prior to administering a PDE5 - inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : film - coated , round , bi - convex : • • 0 . 5 mg , white , with “ BAYER ” cross on one side and “ 0 . 5 ” and “ R ” on the other side • • 1 mg , pale - yellow , with “ BAYER ” cross on one side and “ 1 ” and “ R ” on the other side • • 1 . 5 mg , yellow - orange , with “ BAYER ” cross on one side and “ 1 . 5 ” and “ R ” on the other side • • 2 mg , pale orange , with “ BAYER ” cross on one side and “ 2 ” and “ R ” on the other side • • 2 . 5 mg , red - orange , with “ BAYER ” cross on one side and “ 2 . 5 ” and “ R ” on the other side Tablets : 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , 1 . 5 mg , 2 mg and 2 . 5 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Pregnancy ( 4 . 1 ) • • Use with nitrates or nitric oxide donors in any form ( 4 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • • Use with PDE inhibitors ( 2 . 6 , 4 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • Patients with concomitant use of other soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators .
( 4 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • • • Pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias ( PH - IIP ) ( 4 . 4 ) 4 . 1 Pregnancy Based on data from animal reproduction studies , Adempas may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and is contraindicated in females who are pregnant .
Adempas was consistently shown to have teratogenic effects when administered to animals .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Nitrates and Nitric Oxide Donors Co - administration of Adempas with nitrates or nitric oxide donors ( such as amyl nitrite ) in any form is contraindicated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 3 Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors Concomitant administration of Adempas with specific PDE - 5 inhibitors ( such as sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil ) or nonspecific PDE 5 inhibitors ( such as dipyridamole or theophylline ) is contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Do not administer within 24 hours of sildenafil .
Do not administer 24 hours before or within 48 hours after tadalafil .
4 . 4 Soluble Guanylate Stimulators Adempas is contraindicated in patients with concomitant use of other soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 5 Pulmonary Hypertension Associated with Idiopathic Interstitial Pneumonias ( PH - IIP ) Adempas is contraindicated in patients with pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias ( PH - IIP ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Symptomatic hypotension ( 5 . 3 ) • • Bleeding ( 5 . 4 ) • • Pulmonary edema in patients with pulmonary veno - occlusive disease .
If confirmed , discontinue treatment ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on data from animal reproduction studies , Adempas may cause embryo - fetal toxicity when administered to a pregnant female and is contraindicated in females who are pregnant .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Obtain a pregnancy test before the start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and for one month after stopping treatment .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ADEMPAS and for at least one month after the last dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
For females , Adempas is only available through a restricted program under the Adempas REMS Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Adempas REMS Program Females can only receive Adempas through the Adempas Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) Program , a restricted distribution program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Important requirements of the Adempas REMS Program include the following : • • Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training .
• • All females , regardless of reproductive potential , must enroll in the Adempas REMS Program prior to initiating Adempas .
Male patients are not enrolled in the Adempas REMS Program .
• • Female patients of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Pharmacies must be certified with the program and must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive Adempas .
Further information , including a list of certified pharmacies , is available at www . AdempasREMS . com or 1 - 855 - 4 ADEMPAS .
5 . 3 Hypotension Adempas reduces blood pressure .
Consider the potential for symptomatic hypotension or ischemia in patients with hypovolemia , severe left ventricular outflow obstruction , resting hypotension , autonomic dysfunction , or concomitant treatment with antihypertensives or strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider a dose reduction if patient develops signs or symptoms of hypotension .
5 . 4 Bleeding In the placebo - controlled clinical trials , serious bleeding occurred in 2 . 4 % of patients taking Adempas compared to 0 % of placebo patients .
Serious hemoptysis occurred in 5 ( 1 % ) patients taking Adempas compared to 0 placebo patients , including one event with fatal outcome .
Serious hemorrhagic events also included 2 patients with vaginal hemorrhage , 2 with catheter site hemorrhage , and 1 each with subdural hematoma , hematemesis , and intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
5 . 5 Pulmonary Veno - Occlusive Disease Pulmonary vasodilators may significantly worsen the cardiovascular status of patients with pulmonary veno - occlusive disease ( PVOD ) .
Therefore , administration of Adempas to such patients is not recommended .
Should signs of pulmonary edema occur , the possibility of associated PVOD should be considered and , if confirmed , discontinue treatment with Adempas .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Adverse reactions occurring more frequently ( ≥ 3 % ) on Adempas compared to placebo are headache , dyspepsia / gastritis , dizziness , nausea , diarrhea , hypotension , vomiting , anemia , gastroesophageal reflux , and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflect exposure to Adempas in two , randomized , double blind , placebo - controlled trials in patients with inoperable or recurrent / persistent CTEPH ( CHEST - 1 ) and treatment naive or pre - treated PAH patients ( PATENT - 1 ) .
The population ( Adempas : n = 490 ; Placebo : n = 214 ) was between the age of 18 and 80 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety profile of Adempas in patients with inoperable or recurrent / persistent CTEPH ( CHEST - 1 ) and treatment naive or pre - treated PAH ( PATENT - 1 ) were similar .
Therefore , adverse drug reactions ( ADRs ) identified from the 12 and 16 week placebo - controlled trials for PAH and CTEPH respectively were pooled , and those occurring more frequently on Adempas than placebo ( ≥ 3 % ) are displayed in Table 1 below .
Most adverse reactions in Table 1 can be ascribed to the vasodilatory mechanism of action of Adempas .
The overall rates of discontinuation due to an adverse event in the pivotal placebo - controlled trials were 2 . 9 % for Adempas and 5 . 1 % for placebo ( pooled data ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring More Frequently ( ≥ 3 % ) on Adempas than Placebo ( Pooled from CHEST - 1 and PATENT - 1 ) Adverse Reactions Adempas % ( n = 490 ) Placebo % ( n = 214 ) Headache 27 18 Dyspepsia and Gastritis 21 8 Dizziness 20 13 Nausea 14 11 Diarrhea 12 8 Hypotension 10 4 Vomiting 10 7 Anemia ( including laboratory parameters ) 7 2 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 5 2 Constipation 5 1 Other events that were seen more frequently in Adempas compared to placebo and potentially related to treatment were : palpitations , nasal congestion , epistaxis , dysphagia , abdominal distension and peripheral edema .
With longer observation in uncontrolled long - term extension studies the safety profile was similar to that observed in the placebo controlled phase 3 trials .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors : For patients receiving strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors , consider a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg three times a day .
Monitor for hypotension .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Antacids : Separate administration by at least 1 hour .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Adempas Other Soluble Guanylate Cyclase Stimulators : Co - administration of Adempas is contraindicated in patients with use of other soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 4 ) ] .
Nitrates : Co - administration of Adempas with nitrates or nitric oxide donors ( such as amyl nitrite ) in any form is contraindicated because of hypotension [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
PDE Inhibitors : Co - administration of Adempas with specific PDE - 5 inhibitors ( such as sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil ) and nonspecific PDE inhibitors ( such as dipyridamole or theophylline ) , is contraindicated because of hypotension . Do not administer within 24 hours of sildenafil .
Do not administer 24 hours before or within 48 hours after tadalafil [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
Clinical experience with co - administration of Adempas and other phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( for example , milrinone , cilostazole , roflumilast ) is limited .
7 . 2 Pharmacokinetic Interactions with Adempas Smoking : Plasma concentrations in smokers are reduced by 50 % to 60 % compared to nonsmokers .
Based on pharmacokinetic modeling , for patients who are smokers , doses higher than 2 . 5 mg three times a day may be considered in order to match exposure seen in nonsmoking patients .
Safety and effectiveness of Adempas doses higher than 2 . 5 mg three times a day have not been established .
A dose reduction should be considered in patients who stop smoking [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors : Concomitant use of riociguat with strong cytochrome CYP inhibitors and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors such as azole antimycotics ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) or HIV protease inhibitors ( such as ritonavir ) increase riociguat exposure and may result in hypotension .
Consider a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg 3 times a day when initiating Adempas in patients receiving strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and on treatment with strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors .
A dose reduction should be considered in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A inducers : Strong inducers of CYP3A ( for example , rifampin , phenytoin , carbamazepine , phenobarbital or St . John ’ s Wort ) may significantly reduce riociguat exposure .
Data are not available to guide dosing of riociguat when strong CYP3A inducers are co - administered .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Antacids : Antacids such as aluminum hydroxide / magnesium hydroxide decrease riociguat absorption and should not be taken within 1 hour of taking Adempas [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • • Renal impairment : Not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 mL / min or on dialysis .
( 8 . 7 ) • • Hepatic impairment : Not recommended in patients with severe ( Child Pugh C ) hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 8 ) • • Smoking : May require dosages higher than 2 . 5 mg three times a day if tolerated .
Dose decrease may be required in patients who stop smoking .
( 2 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on data from animal reproduction studies , Adempas may cause embryo - fetal toxicity and miscarriage when administered to a pregnant woman and is contraindicated during pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
There are limited available data with ADEMPAS use in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of riociguat to pregnant rats during organogenesis was teratogenic and embryotoxic at exposures approximately 8 times and 2 times , respectively , the human exposure .
In reproduction studies with pregnant rabbits , oral administration of riociguat during organogenesis caused abortions and fetal toxicity at exposures approximately 4 times and 13 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In rats administered riociguat orally ( 1 , 5 , and 25 mg / kg / day ) throughout organogenesis , an increased rate of cardiac ventricular - septal defect was observed at the highest dose tested .
The highest dose produced evidence of maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight ) .
Post - implantation loss was statistically significantly increased from the mid - dose of 5 mg / kg / day .
Plasma exposure at the lowest dose in which no adverse effects were observed is approximately 0 . 4 times that in humans at the maximally recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 . 5 mg three times a day based on area under the time - concentration curve ( AUC ) for unbound drug in rat and humans .
Plasma exposure at the highest dose ( 25 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 8 times that in humans at the MRHD while exposure at the mid - dose ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 2 times that in humans at the MRHD .
In rabbits given doses of 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 and 5 mg / kg / day , an increase in spontaneous abortions was observed starting at the middle dose of 1 . 5 mg / kg , and an increase in resorptions was observed at 5 mg / kg / day .
Plasma exposures at these doses were 4 times and 13 times , respectively , the human exposure at the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of riociguat in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
Riociguat is present in rat milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from ADEMPAS , such as hypotension , in breastfed infants , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ADEMPAS .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Female patients of reproductive potential must have a negative pregnancy test prior to starting treatment with Adempas , monthly during treatment , and one month after discontinuation of treatment with Adempas .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or suspect they may be pregnant .
Counsel patients on the risk to the fetus [ see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Female patients of reproductive potential must use acceptable methods of contraception during treatment with Adempas and for 1 month after treatment with Adempas .
Patients may choose one highly effective form of contraception ( intrauterine devices [ IUD ] , contraceptive implants or tubal sterilization ) or a combination of methods ( hormone method with a barrier method or two barrier methods ) .
If a partner ’ s vasectomy is the chosen method of contraception , a hormone or barrier method must be used along with this method .
Counsel patients on pregnancy planning and prevention , including emergency contraception , or designate counseling by another healthcare provider trained in contraceptive counseling [ see Boxed Warning ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Adempas in pediatric patients have not been established [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of Adempas , 23 % were 65 and over , and 6 % were 75 and over [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Elderly patients showed a higher exposure to Adempas [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 mL / min or on dialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh C ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In cases of overdose , blood pressure should be closely monitored and supported as appropriate .
Based on extensive plasma protein binding , riociguat is not expected to be dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION Adempas ( riociguat ) is a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator tablet for oral administration .
Riociguat is methyl 4 , 6 - diamino - 2 - [ 1 - ( 2 - fluorobenzyl ) - 1 H - pyrazolo [ 3 , 4 - b ] pyridin - 3 - yl ] - 5 - pyrimidinyl ( methyl ) carbamate with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H19FN8O2 Riociguat is a white to yellowish , crystalline , non - hygroscopic substance with a molecular weight of 422 . 42 g / mol .
In solid form it is stable to temperature , light , and humidity .
The solubility at 25 ° C in water : 4 mg / L , in ethanol : 800 mg / L , in 0 . 1 HCl ( pH 1 ) : 250 mg / L and in buffer ( phosphate ) pH 7 : 3 mg / L .
In the pH range of 2 to 4 the solubility showed strong pH - dependency .
Solubility increases at lower pH values .
Each round film - coated tablet contains 0 . 5 mg ( 1 . 0 , 1 . 5 , 2 . 0 , 2 . 5 mg ) riociguat .
The inactive ingredients are cellulose microcrystalline , crospovidone , hypromellose 5 cP , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , sodium laurylsulfate , hydroxypropylcellulose , hypromellose 3 cP , propylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
Adempas 1 , 1 . 5 , 2 and 2 . 5 mg tablets contain , in addition , ferric oxide yellow .
Adempas 2 and 2 . 5 mg tablets contain , in addition , ferric oxide red .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Riociguat is a stimulator of soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) , an enzyme in the cardiopulmonary system and the receptor for nitric oxide ( NO ) .
When NO binds to sGC , the enzyme catalyzes synthesis of the signaling molecule cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) .
Intracellular cGMP plays an important role in regulating processes that influence vascular tone , proliferation , fibrosis and inflammation .
Pulmonary hypertension is associated with endothelial dysfunction , impaired synthesis of nitric oxide and insufficient stimulation of the NO - sGC - cGMP pathway .
Riociguat has a dual mode of action .
It sensitizes sGC to endogenous NO by stabilizing the NO - sGC binding .
Riociguat also directly stimulates sGC via a different binding site , independently of NO .
Riociguat stimulates the NO - sGC - cGMP pathway and leads to increased generation of cGMP with subsequent vasodilation .
The active metabolite ( M1 ) of riociguat is 1 / 3 to 1 / 10 as potent as riociguat .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics There is a direct relationship between riociguat plasma concentration and hemodynamic parameters such as systemic vascular resistance , systolic blood pressure , pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) , and cardiac output [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Hemodynamic parameters were assessed in CTEPH patients in CHEST - 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Right heart catheterization was performed at the beginning and the end of the study period in 233 patients .
A statistically significant reduction of PVR ( - 246 dyn * s * cm - 5 ) was shown in the Adempas group vs . placebo .
Improvements in other hemodynamic parameters ( not pre - specified as endpoints ) are displayed in Table 2 below .
Table 2 : CHEST - 1 , Change In Hemodynamic Parameters from Baseline to Last Visit ( Individual Dose Titration to Maximum 2 . 5 mg Three Times a Day versus placebo ) Parameter ( unit ) • Mean change LS mean difference 95 % CI Adempas Placebo Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure ( mmHg ) 0 . 59 0 . 18 0 . 58 – 0 . 36 to 1 . 53 Right Atrial Pressure ( mmHg ) – 1 . 04 – 0 . 55 – 0 . 55 – 1 . 72 to 0 . 62 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure Systolic ( mmHg ) – 6 . 84 0 . 95 – 7 . 52 – 10 . 88 to – 4 . 16 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure Diastolic ( mmHg ) – 3 . 05 0 . 67 – 3 . 62 – 5 . 30 to – 1 . 95 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure Mean ( mmHg ) – 4 . 31 0 . 76 – 4 . 96 – 6 . 75 to – 3 . 16 Mean Arterial Pressure ( mmHg ) – 9 . 27 – 0 . 29 – 9 . 15 – 11 . 83 to – 6 . 46 Mixed Venous Oxygen Saturation ( % ) 2 . 95 – 0 . 44 3 . 85 1 . 46 to 6 . 25 Cardiac Output ( L / min ) 0 . 81 – 0 . 03 0 . 86 0 . 59 to 1 . 12 Cardiac Index ( L / min / m2 ) 0 . 45 – 0 . 01 0 . 47 0 . 33 to 0 . 62 Pulmonary Vascular Resistance ( dyn * s * cm - 5 ) – 226 23 . 1 – 246 – 303 to – 190 Pulmonary Vascular Resistance Index ( dyn * s * cm - 5 * m2 ) – 397 48 . 3 – 449 – 554 to – 344 Systemic Vascular Resistance ( dyn * s * cm - 5 ) – 445 16 . 6 – 478 – 602 to – 354 Systemic Vascular Resistance Index ( dyn * s * cm - 5 * m2 ) – 799 53 . 7 – 914 – 1141 to – 687 Hemodynamic parameters were assessed in PAH patients in PATENT - 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Right heart catheterization was performed at the beginning and the end of the study period in 339 patients .
A statistically significant reduction of PVR ( - 226 dyn * sec * cm - 5 ) was shown in the Adempas individual titration group ( to maximum dose of 2 . 5 mg three times a day ) vs . placebo .
Improvement in other relevant hemodynamic parameters ( not pre - specified as endpoints ) for the individual dose titration group versus placebo are displayed in Table 3 .
Table 3 : PATENT - 1 , Change in Hemodynamic Parameters from Baseline to Last Visit ( Individual Dose Titration to Maximum 2 . 5 mg Three Times a Day versus Placebo ) • Parameter ( unit ) Mean change LS mean difference 95 % CI Adempas Placebo Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure ( mmHg ) 1 . 08 0 . 46 0 . 41 – 0 . 36 to 1 . 18 Right Atrial Pressure ( mmHg ) – 0 . 20 0 . 97 – 1 . 01 – 2 . 15 to 0 . 13 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure Systolic ( mmHg ) – 5 . 39 0 . 78 – 6 . 73 – 9 . 43 to – 4 . 04 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure Diastolic ( mmHg ) – 3 . 19 – 1 . 12 – 2 . 41 – 4 . 15 to – 0 . 68 Pulmonary Arterial Pressure mean ( mmHg ) – 3 . 93 – 0 . 5 – 3 . 83 – 5 . 61 to – 2 . 06 Mean Arterial Pressure ( mmHg ) – 8 . 54 – 1 . 4 – 7 . 25 – 9 . 6 to – 4 . 90 Mixed Venous Oxygen Saturation ( % ) 3 . 15 – 2 . 33 5 . 02 3 . 2 to 6 . 84 Cardiac Output ( L / min ) 0 . 93 – 0 . 01 0 . 93 0 . 7 to 1 . 15 Cardiac Index ( L / min / m2 ) 0 . 54 – 0 . 02 0 . 56 0 . 44 to 0 . 69 Pulmonary Vascular Resistance ( dyn * s * cm - 5 ) – 223 – 8 . 9 – 226 – 281 to – 170 Pulmonary Vascular Resistance Index ( dyn * s * cm - 5 * m2 ) – 374 – 22 . 4 – 377 – 469 to – 285 Systemic Vascular Resistance ( dyn * s * cm - 5 ) – 448 – 67 . 5 – 395 – 473 to – 316 Systemic Vascular Resistance Index ( dyn * s * cm - 5 * m2 ) – 753 – 130 – 675 – 801 to – 550 Biomarkers In the CHEST - 1 study , Adempas significantly reduced N - terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide ( NT - proBNP ) , placebo - corrected mean change from baseline - 444 ng / L , 95 % CI - 843 to - 45 .
In the PATENT - 1 study Adempas demonstrated a statistically significant reduction of NT - proBNP , placebo ‑ corrected mean change from baseline : - 432 ng / L , 95 % CI – 782 to – 82 .
Pharmacodynamic interactions Nitrates : Riociguat 2 . 5 mg tablets potentiated the blood pressure lowering effect of sublingual nitroglycerin ( 0 . 4 mg ) taken 4 and 8 hours after riociguat .
Syncope was reported in some patients [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
Phosphodiesterase - 5 inhibitors : In an exploratory interaction study in 7 patients with PAH on stable sildenafil treatment ( 20 mg three times a day ) , single doses of riociguat ( 0 . 5 mg and 1 mg sequentially ) showed additive hemodynamic effects .
Among patients with PAH on stable sildenafil treatment ( 20 mg , three times a day ) and riociguat ( 1 to 2 . 5 mg , three times a day ) there was one death , possibly related to the combination of these drugs , and a high rate of discontinuation for hypotension [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
Warfarin : Concomitant administration of riociguat and warfarin did not alter prothrombin time .
Acetylsalicylic Acid : Concomitant use of riociguat and aspirin did not affect bleeding time or platelet aggregation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Riociguat pharmacokinetics are dose proportional from 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 mg .
Inter - individual variability of riociguat exposure ( AUC ) across all doses is approximately 60 % , and within - subject variability is approximately 30 % .
Absorption and distribution The absolute bioavailability of riociguat is about 94 % .
Peak plasma riociguat concentrations were observed within 1 . 5 hours after tablet intake .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of riociguat .
Bioavailability ( AUC and Cmax ) of riociguat administered orally as a crushed tablet suspended in applesauce or in water is similar to that of a whole tablet .
The volume of distribution at steady state is approximately 30 L . Plasma protein binding in humans is approximately 95 % , with serum albumin and α1 – acidic glycoprotein being the main binding components .
Riociguat is a substrate of P - gp and BCRP .
Metabolism and excretion Riociguat is mainly cleared through metabolism by CYP1A1 , CYP3A4 , CYP3A5 , and CYP2J2 .
Formation of the major active metabolite , M1 , is catalyzed by CYP1A1 , which is inducible by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as those present in cigarette smoke .
M1 is further metabolized to the inactive N - glucuronide .
Plasma concentrations of M1 in patients with PAH are about half those for riociguat .
Following oral administration of radiolabeled riociguat in healthy individuals , about 40 and 53 % of the total radioactivity was recovered in urine and feces , respectively .
There appears to be considerable variability in the proportion of metabolites and unchanged riociguat excreted , but metabolites were the major components of the dose excreted in most individuals .
Average systemic clearance of riociguat was about 1 . 8 L / h in patients with PAH and about 3 . 4 L / h in healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life is about 12 hours in patients and 7 hours in healthy subjects .
Specific Populations : The effect of intrinsic factors on riociguat and M1 are shown below in Figure 1 .
There are no clinically relevant effects of age , sex , weight , or race / ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of riociguat or M1 .
No dose adjustment is warranted .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug interactions : The effect of extrinsic factors on riociguat and M1 were studied in healthy subjects and are shown in Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] * HIV protease inhibitors are strong CYP3A inhibitors and may increase riociguat plasma concentrations to levels similar to those seen with ketoconazole .
** AUC only , estimated using population pharmacokinetics methods *** AUC only for metabolite , estimated using population pharmacokinetics methods .
**** Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and on treatment with strong CYP and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A inducers : Data are not available to inform dosing of riociguat when strong CYP3A inducers are co - administered [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Effects of Riociguat on other Drugs : Riociguat did not affect the pharmacokinetics of midazolam , warfarin , or sildenafil [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Riociguat ( 2 . 5 mg three times per day ) did not affect the systemic exposure of combined oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol when concomitantly administered to healthy female subjects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Carcinogenicity studies of riociguat were conducted in mice and rats .
In mice , oral administration of riociguat ( up to 25 mg / kg / day in males and 32 mg / kg / day in females ) for up to two years did not demonstrate evidence of carcinogenesis .
Plasma exposure ( AUC ) of unbound riociguat at the highest dose was 6 times the human ’ s exposure .
In rats , oral administration of riociguat ( up to 20 mg / kg / day ) for up to two years did not demonstrate evidence of carcinogenesis .
Plasma exposure ( AUC ) of unbound riociguat at the highest dose was 7 times the human exposure Mutagenesis : Riociguat and M1 did not show genotoxic potential in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster V79 cells , or the in vivo micronucleus assay in the mouse .
Impairment of fertility : In rats , no effects on male or female fertility were observed .
In male rats , oral administration of riociguat ( up to 30 mg / kg / day ) prior to and throughout the mating period had no effect on fertility .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects is 37 times the human exposure when based on body surface area .
In female rats , oral administration of riociguat ( up to 30 mg / kg / day ) prior to and during mating and continuing to gestation Day 7 had no effect on fertility .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects is 37 times the human exposure when based on body surface area .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology In growing rats , effects on bone formation were observed , including thickening of the growth plates , disorganized trabecular bone , and diffuse hyperostosis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Chronic - Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension A double - blind , multi - national , multi - center , study ( CHEST - 1 ) was conducted in 261 patients with CTEPH .
Patients were included if they : • • were technically inoperable for pulmonary endarterectomy , with PVR > 300 dyn * sec * cm - 5 and mean pulmonary artery pressure > 25 mmHg measured at least 90 days after the start of full anticoagulation , or • • had recurrent or persisting pulmonary hypertension defined as PVR > 300 dyn * sec * cm - 5 measured at least 180 days following pulmonary endarterectomy .
Patients were randomized to Adempas titrated up to 2 . 5 mg three times a day ( n = 173 ) or placebo ( n = 88 ) .
All patients were initiated at 1 mg three times a day .
Patients with systolic blood pressure < 95 mmHg were excluded from the study .
The dose of riociguat was titrated every 2 weeks based on the patient ’ s systolic blood pressure and signs or symptoms of hypotension .
Stable dosages of oral anticoagulants , diuretics , digitalis , calcium channel blockers and oxygen were allowed , but not concomitant therapy with NO donors , endothelin receptor antagonists , prostacyclin analogues ( PCA ) , specific PDE - 5 inhibitors ( such as , sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil ) , and nonspecific phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( for example , dipyridamole or theophylline ) .
The primary endpoint of the study was change from baseline in six minute walking distance ( 6 MWD ) after 16 weeks .
The mean age of the patients enrolled was 59 years ( range 18 – 80 years ) .
In the study , 72 % of patients had inoperable CTEPH , 28 % had recurrent or persisting pulmonary hypertension following pulmonary endarterectomy .
The majority of patients had a World Health Organization ( WHO ) Functional Class II ( 31 % ) or III ( 64 % ) at baseline .
The mean baseline 6 MWD was 347 meters .
In the study , 77 % of patients were titrated to the maximum dose of 2 . 5 mg three times a day ; 13 % , 6 % , 4 % , and 1 % of patients were titrated to riociguat doses of 2 , 1 . 5 , 1 , and 0 . 5 mg three times a day , respectively .
Results of the 6 MWD over 16 weeks for the CHEST - 1 study are shown in Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The pre - specified primary endpoint of the study was the change in 6 MWD from baseline to week 16 and was based on imputed values .
The imputation for missing values included last observed value , not including follow - up for patients who completed the study or withdrew .
For deaths or clinical worsening without a termination visit or a measurement at that visit , the imputed worst value ( zero ) was used .
Improvements in walking distance were apparent from Week 2 onward .
At Week 16 , the placebo adjusted mean increase in 6 MWD within the Adempas group was 46 m ( 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] : 25 m to 67 m ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
For CHEST - 1 , the median difference ( Hodges - Lehmann non - parametric estimate ) in 6 MWD was 39 m ( 95 % CI , 25 m to 54 m ) .
Figure 4 illustrates the results of the Adempas and placebo treatment groups displayed as a histogram summarizing the treatment effect on the 6 MWD .
The patients are grouped by change in 20 meters from baseline .
Overall this figure shows that patients treated with Adempas benefit compared to those treated with placebo .
As demonstrated in Figure 4 , 143 patients receiving Adempas ( 83 % ) experienced an improvement in 6 MWD compared to 50 patients ( 57 % ) on placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Placebo - adjusted changes in 6 MWD at 16 weeks were evaluated in subgroups ( see Figure 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] WHO Functional Class improvements in the CHEST - 1 trial are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Effects of Adempas on the Change in WHO Functional Class in CHEST - 1 from Baseline to Week 16 Change in WHO Functional Class Adempas ( n = 173 ) Placebo ( n = 87 ) Improved 57 ( 33 % ) 13 ( 15 % ) Stable 107 ( 62 % ) 68 ( 78 % ) Deteriorated 9 ( 5 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) p - value = 0 . 0026 Long Term Treatment of CTEPH An open - label extension study ( CHEST - 2 ) included 237 patients who had completed CHEST - 1 .
At the cut - off date in the CHEST - 2 study , the mean treatment duration for the total population was 1077 days ( ± 433 ) .
The probabilities of survival at 1 and 2 years were 97 % and 93 % , respectively .
Without a control group , however , these data must be interpreted cautiously .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension A double - blind , multi - national , multi - center study ( PATENT - 1 ) was conducted in 443 patients with PAH as defined by PVR > 300 dyn * sec * cm - 5 and a PAP mean > 25 mmHg .
Patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups : Adempas titrated up to 1 . 5 mg ( n = 63 ) , 2 . 5 mg ( n = 254 ) or placebo ( n = 126 ) three times a day .
Patients with systolic blood pressure < 95 mmHg were excluded from the study .
Patients assigned to Adempas were initiated at 1 . 0 mg three times a day .
The dose of Adempas was up - titrated every 2 weeks based on the patient ’ s systolic blood pressure and signs or symptoms of hypotension .
Oral anticoagulants , diuretics , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , and oxygen were allowed .
In this study , 50 % of the patients were treatment - naive with respect to PAH therapy , 44 % were pre - treated with an endothelin receptor antagonist ( ERA ) and 6 % were pre - treated with a PCA ( inhaled , oral or subcutaneous ) .
Pre - treated patients were defined as patients on stable treatment for 3 months with either an ERA or PCA ; Adempas was added in combination to these background therapies .
The primary endpoint of the study was change from baseline and placebo in 6 MWD after 12 weeks in the 2 . 5 mg group .
The mean age of all patients was 51 years and approximately 80 % were female .
PAH etiologies were either idiopathic ( 61 % ) or familial PAH ( 2 % ) , PAH associated with connective tissue disease ( 25 % ) , congenital heart disease ( 8 % ) , portal hypertension ( 3 % ) , or anorexigen or amphetamine use ( 1 % ) .
The majority of patients had a WHO Functional Class II ( 42 % ) or III ( 54 % ) at baseline .
The overall mean baseline 6 MWD was 363 meters .
Approximately 75 % of patients were up - titrated to receive the maximum dose of 2 . 5 mg three times a day by week 12 ; 15 % , 6 % , 3 % , and 2 % were titrated to doses of 2 , 1 . 5 , 1 , and 0 . 5 mg 3 times a day , respectively .
Results of the 6 MWD over 12 weeks for the PATENT - 1 study are shown in Figure 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The pre - specified primary endpoint of the study was the change in 6 MWD from baseline to week 12 and was based on imputed values .
The imputation for missing values included last observed value , not including follow - up for patients who completed the study or withdrew .
In case of death or clinical worsening without a termination visit or a measurement at that termination visit , the imputed worst value ( zero ) was used .
Figure 7 illustrates the results of the Adempas and placebo treatment groups displayed as a histogram summarizing the treatment effect on the 6 MWD .
The patients are grouped by change in 20 meters from baseline .
Overall this figure shows that patients treated with Adempas benefit compared to those treated with placebo .
As demonstrated in Figure 7 , 193 patients receiving Adempas ( 76 % ) experienced an improvement in 6 MWD compared to 74 patients ( 59 % ) on placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Improvements 6 MWD were apparent from Week 2 onward .
At Week 12 , the placebo - adjusted mean increase in 6 MWD within the Adempas group was 36 m ( 95 % CI : 20 m to 52 m ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
For PATENT - 1 , the median difference ( Hodges - Lehmann non - parametric estimate ) in 6 MWD was 29 m ( 95 % CI , 17 m to 40 m ) .
There was an exploratory 1 . 5 mg capped titration arm ( n = 63 ) .
The data did not suggest incremental benefit from escalating dose from 1 . 5 mg three times a day to 2 . 5 mg three times a day .
Placebo - adjusted changes in 6 MWD at 12 weeks were evaluated in subgroups ( see Figure 8 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] WHO Functional Class improvements in the IDT ( individual dose titration ) arm of the PATENT - 1 trial are shown in Table 5 Table 5 : Effects of Adempas on the Change in WHO Functional Class in PATENT - 1 from Baseline to Week 12 Change in WHO Functional Class Adempas ( IDT ) ( n = 254 ) Placebo ( n = 125 ) Improved 53 ( 21 % ) 18 ( 14 % ) Stable 192 ( 76 % ) 89 ( 71 % ) Deteriorated 9 ( 4 % ) 18 ( 14 % ) p - value = 0 . 0033 Time to clinical worsening was a combined endpoint defined as death ( all - cause mortality ) , heart / lung transplantation , atrial septostomy , hospitalization due to persistent worsening of pulmonary hypertension , start of new PAH - specific treatment , persistent decrease in 6 MWD and persistent worsening of WHO Functional Class .
Effects of Adempas in PATENT - 1 on events of clinical worsening are shown in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Effects of Adempas in PATENT - 1 on Events of Clinical Worsening ( ITT analysis set ) Clinical Worsening Events Adempas ( IDT ) ( n = 254 ) Placebo ( n = 126 ) Patients with any clinical worsening * 3 ( 1 . 2 % ) 8 ( 6 . 3 % ) • • Death 2 ( 0 . 8 % ) 3 ( 2 . 4 % ) • • Hospitalizations due to PH 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 4 ( 3 . 2 % ) • • Decrease in 6 MWD due to PH 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 2 ( 1 . 6 % ) • • Persistent worsening of FC due to PAH 0 1 ( 0 . 8 % ) • • Start of new PAH treatment 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 5 ( 4 . 0 % ) * p - value = 0 . 0285 ( Mantel - Haenszel estimate ) Note : Patients may have had more than one event of clinical worsening Adempas - treated patients experienced a significant delay in time to clinical worsening versus placebo - treated patients ( p = 0 . 0046 ; Stratified log - rank test ) .
Significantly fewer events of clinical worsening up to week 12 ( last visit ) were observed in patients treated with Adempas ( 1 . 2 % ) compared to placebo ( 6 . 3 % ) ( p = 0 . 0285 , Mantel - Haenszel estimate ) .
The Kaplan - Meier plot of time to clinical worsening is presented in Figure 9 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Long Term Treatment of PAH An open label extension study ( PATENT - 2 ) included 396 patients who had completed PATENT - 1 .
At the cut - off date in the PATENT - 2 study , the mean treatment duration for the total population was 1146 days ( ± 479 ) .
The probabilities of survival at 1 and 2 years were 97 % and 93 % , respectively .
Without a control group , these data must be interpreted cautiously .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Adempas ( riociguat ) tablets are film - coated , round , and debossed with the “ Bayer cross ” on one side .
Color Debossing Side 2 NDC 50419 - xxx - xx Bottle of 9 Bottle of 90 Blister of 42 0 . 5 mg White 0 . 5 R 250 - 91 250 - 01 250 - 03 1 mg Pale yellow 1 R 251 - 91 251 - 01 251 - 03 1 . 5 mg Yellow - orange 1 . 5 R 252 - 91 252 - 01 252 - 03 2 mg Pale orange 2 R 253 - 91 253 - 01 253 - 03 2 . 5 mg Red - orange 2 . 5 R 254 - 91 254 - 01 254 - 03 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted from 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Instruct patients on the risk of fetal harm when Adempas is used during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception and to contact her healthcare provider immediately if they suspect they may be pregnant .
Female patients must enroll in the Adempas REMS Program .
Adempas REMS Program For female patients , Adempas is available only through a restricted program called the Adempas REMS Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Male patients are not enrolled in the Adempas REMS Program .
Inform female patients ( and their guardians , if applicable ) of the following important requirements : • • All female patients must sign an enrollment form .
• • Advise female patients of reproductive potential that she must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Educate and counsel females of reproductive potential on the use of emergency contraception in the event of unprotected sex or contraceptive failure .
• • Advise pre - pubertal females to report any changes in their reproductive status immediately to her prescriber .
Review the Medication Guide and REMS educational materials with female patients .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ADEMPAS [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Other Risks Associated with Adempas • • Inform patients of the contraindication of Adempas with nitrates or nitric oxide donors or PDE - 5 inhibitors .
• • Advise patients about the potential risks / signs of hemoptysis and to report any potential signs of hemoptysis to their physicians .
• • Instruct patients on the dosing , titration , and maintenance of Adempas .
• • Advise patients regarding activities that may impact the pharmacology of Adempas ( strong multi pathway CYP inhibitors and P - gp / BCRP inhibitors and smoking ) .
Instruct patients to report all current medications and new medications to their physician .
• • Advise patients that antacids should not be taken within 1 hour of taking Adempas .
• • Inform patients that Adempas can cause dizziness , which can affect the ability to drive and use machines [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to be aware of how they react to Adempas , before driving or operating machinery and if needed , consult their physician .
Patients should consult their physicians if dizziness gets worse with Adempas .
Medication Guide MEDICATION GUIDE Adempas ( a dem pahs ) ( riociguat ) tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking Adempas and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Adempas ?
• • Serious birth defects .
• • Adempas can cause serious birth defects if taken during pregnancy .
• • Females must not be pregnant when they start taking Adempas or become pregnant during treatment with Adempas .
• • Females who are able to get pregnant must have a negative pregnancy test before beginning treatment with Adempas , each month during treatment , and 1 month after you stop treatment with Adempas .
Talk to your doctor about your menstrual cycle .
Your doctor will decide when to do the tests , and order the tests for you depending on your menstrual cycle .
• • Females who are able to get pregnant are females who : • • Have entered puberty , even if they have not started their period , and • • Have a uterus , and • • Have not gone through menopause ( have not had a period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or who have had their ovaries removed ) • • Females who are not able to get pregnant are females who : • • Have not yet entered puberty , or • • Do not have a uterus , or • • Have gone through menopause ( have not had a period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or who have had their ovaries removed ) Females who are able to get pregnant must use 2 acceptable forms of birth control , during treatment with Adempas and for 1 month after stopping Adempas because the medicine may still be in the body .
• • If you have had a tubal sterilization , have a progesterone implant , or have an IUD ( intrauterine device ) , these methods can be used alone and no other form of birth control is needed .
• • Talk with your doctor or gynecologist ( a doctor who specializes in female reproduction ) to find out about options for acceptable birth control that you may use to prevent pregnancy during treatment with Adempas .
• • If you decide that you want to change the form of birth control that you use , talk with your doctor or gynecologist to be sure that you choose another acceptable form of birth control .
See the chart below for Acceptable Birth Control Options during treatment with Adempas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Do not have unprotected sex .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist right away if you have unprotected sex or if you think your birth control has failed .
Your doctor may talk with you about using emergency birth control .
• • Tell your doctor right away if you miss a menstrual period or think you may be pregnant for any reason .
If you are the parent or caregiver of a female child who started taking Adempas before reaching puberty , you should check your child regularly to see if she is developing signs of puberty .
Tell your doctor right away if you notice that she is developing breast buds or any pubic hair .
Your doctor should decide if your child has reached puberty .
Your child may reach puberty before having her first menstrual period .
Females can only receive Adempas through a restricted program called the Adempas Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ( REMS ) Program .
If you are a female who can become pregnant , you must talk to your doctor , understand the benefits and risks of Adempas , and agree to all of the instructions in the Adempas REMS Program .
Males can receive Adempas without taking part in the Adempas REMS Program .
What is Adempas ?
Adempas is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with : • • chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension ( CTEPH ) • • treated with surgery but who continue to have high pulmonary blood pressure ( persistent ) or it comes back after surgery ( recurrent ) , or • • that cannot be treated with surgery .
• • CTEPH is a type of high blood pressure in the arteries of your lungs caused by blood clots that narrow or block blood flow .
Adempas can improve your ability to exercise and can help to improve some of your symptoms .
• • pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) • • PAH is a type of high blood pressure in the arteries of your lungs .
Adempas can improve your ability to exercise , improve some of your symptoms , and help slow down the worsening of your physical condition .
• • It is unknown if Adempas is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take Adempas ?
Do not take Adempas if : • • you are pregnant , plan to become pregnant , or become pregnant during treatment with Adempas .
Adempas can cause serious birth defects .
( See the Medication Guide section above called " What is the most important information I should know about Adempas ? " )
• • you take : • • another medicine called a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator ( sGC ) .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you are taking an sGC medicine .
• • a nitrate medicine to treat high blood pressure or heart disease , such as nitroglycerin , or a medicine called a nitric oxide donor , such as amyl nitrite • • certain other medicines that contain sildenafil ( Revatio or Viagra ) , tadalafil ( Adcirca or Cialis ) , vardenafil ( Levitra or Staxyn ) , dipyridamole , or theophylline .
Revatio and Adcirca are also used to treat PAH • • you have pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias ( PH - IIP ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if you take any of the medicines listed above .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Adempas ?
Before you take Adempas , tell your doctor if you : • • smoke • • have recently had serious bleeding from your lung , or if you have had a medical procedure called bronchial arterial embolization to stop you from coughing up blood • • have problems with your heart or blood circulation • • have low blood pressure • • have liver problems • • have kidney problems or are on dialysis • • have narrowing of the pulmonary veins , a condition called pulmonary veno - occlusive disease or PVOD • • have any other medical conditions Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Adempas and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Do not start any new medicine until you check with your doctor .
How should I take Adempas ?
Adempas will be provided to you by a certified pharmacy .
Your doctor will give you complete details .
• • Do not take Adempas within 24 hours of sildenafil .
Do not take Adempas 24 hours before or within 48 hours after tadalafil .
• • Take Adempas exactly as your doctor tells you .
Do not stop taking Adempas or change your dose without talking to your doctor .
• • When you begin treatment with Adempas , your blood pressure should be monitored about every 2 weeks to help your doctor decide the correct dose of medicine for you .
• • Your doctor may change your dose during treatment , especially when you first start taking Adempas .
It is important to tell your doctor if you have any symptoms of low blood pressure during this time , such as dizziness , lightheadedness , or fainting .
• • Take Adempas 3 times each day , about 6 to 8 hours apart .
• • Take Adempas with or without food .
• • Do not take more than a total of 7 . 5 mg of Adempas in 1 day unless your doctor tells you to .
• • If you take a heartburn medicine ( antacid ) that contains aluminum hydroxide or magnesium hydroxide , do not take it within 1 hour of taking Adempas .
• • If you take too much Adempas , call your doctor right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• • If you miss a dose , take your next dose of Adempas at the regular time .
• • If you miss 3 or more days of treatment with Adempas , call your doctor for instructions before you restart Adempas .
What should I avoid while taking Adempas ?
• • Do not get pregnant while taking Adempas .
( See serious birth defects section of the Medication Guide above called " What is the most important information I should know about Adempas ? " )
If you miss a menstrual period , or think you might be pregnant , call your doctor right away .
• • It is not known if Adempas passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed if you take Adempas .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take Adempas .
• • Adempas may make you feel dizzy .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other activities that require mental alertness or coordination until you know how Adempas affects you .
Talk with your doctor if you are concerned about when it is safe for you to do these activities .
• • Smoking .
Adempas may not work as well if you smoke during treatment .
Tell your doctor if you stop smoking or start smoking during treatment with Adempas , because your dose of Adempas may need to be changed .
What are the possible side effects of Adempas ?
Adempas can cause serious side effects including : • • Serious birth defects .
( See " What is the most important information I should know about Adempas ? " )
• • Reduced blood pressure .
Adempas reduces blood pressure .
This may cause symptoms of low blood pressure , such as lightheadedness , chest pain , and dizziness especially in people who are dehydrated , or have a severe blockage of blood flow out of the heart , or have certain other medical problems .
Your doctor will check you for these problems .
• • Increased risk of bleeding , including bleeding from the respiratory tract .
Tell your doctor right away if you cough up blood during treatment with Adempas .
• • Worsening of symptoms in people with Pulmonary Veno - Occlusive Disease ( PVOD ) .
If you have PVOD , treatment with Adempas may cause a build - up of fluid in your lungs ( pulmonary edema ) .
This may cause you to feel short of breath .
Your doctor may tell you to stop taking Adempas and switch you to a different medicine .
• • The most common side effects of Adempas are : • • headache • • dizziness • • indigestion • • swelling of your hands , legs , feet , and ankles ( peripheral edema ) • • nausea , diarrhea , and vomiting Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Adempas .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Adempas ?
• • Store Adempas at room temperature between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) Keep Adempas and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about Adempas Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Adempas for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not give Adempas to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about Adempas .
If you would like more information about Adempas , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Adempas that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to www . Adempas - us . com or call 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 .
What are the ingredients in Adempas ?
Active ingredient : riociguat Inactive ingredients : cellulose microcrystalline , crospovidone , hypromellose 5 cP , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , sodium laurylsulfate , hydroxypropylcellulose , hypromellose 3 cP , propylene glycol , titanium dioxide .
Adempas 1 mg , 1 . 5 mg , 2 mg and 2 . 5 mg tablets also contain ferric oxide yellow .
Adempas 2 mg and 2 . 5 mg tablets also contain ferric oxide red .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 9 2021 Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Whippany , NJ 07981 Manufactured in Germany © 2013 Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50419 - 250 - 01 Rx only Adempas 0 . 5 mg ( riociguat ) tablets each tablet contains 0 . 5 mg of riociguat Note to Dispencer : Provide a copy of the Adempas Medication Guide included in this carton to each patient and at each refill .
- 90 tablets - for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50419 - 251 - 01 Rx only Adempas 1 mg ( riociguat ) tablets each tablet contains 1 mg of riociguat Note to Dispencer : Provide a copy of the Adempas Medication Guide included in this cartonto each patient and at each refill .
- 90 tablets - for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50419 - 252 - 01 Rx only Adempas 1 . 5 mg ( riociguat ) tablets each tablet contains 1 . 5 mg of riociguat Note to Dispencer : Provide a copy of the Adempas Medication Guide included in this cartonto each patient and at each refill .
- 90 tablets - for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50419 - 253 - 01 Rx only Adempas 2 mg ( riociguat ) tablets each tablet contains 2 mg of riociguat Note to Dispencer : Provide a copy of the Adempas Medication Guide included in this cartonto each patient and at each refill .
- 90 tablets - for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50419 - 254 - 01 Rx only Adempas 2 . 5 mg ( riociguat ) tablets each tablet contains 2 . 5 mg of riociguat Note to Dispencer : Provide a copy of the Adempas Medication Guide included in this cartonto each patient and at each refill .
- 90 tablets - for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
