Lidocaine 4 . 0 % Menthol 1 . 0 % Topical Anesthetic Topical Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain - Warnings For external use only .
Use only as directed Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton Do not allow contact with the eyes Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use Do not microwave Dispose of the used patch in a manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
More than one patch on your body at a time .
On cut , irritated or swollen skin On puncture wounds For more than one week without consulting a doctor If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients If pouch is damaged or opened Stop and ask a doctor Condition worsens Redness is present Irritation develops Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days You experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breastfeeding Ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and the dry affected area .
Carefully remove backing from the patch starting at a corner .
Apply the sticky side of patch to the affected area .
Use one patch for up to 12 hours .
Discard patch after a single use .
Children under 12 years old of age : consult a physician .
Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect for excessive moisture .
Aluminum glycinate , glycerin , kaolin , methylparaben , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , PVP , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water Equate Lidocaine + Menthol Pain Relief Patch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
