Active Ingredient Purpose Avobenzone 3 % sunscreen Homosalate 10 % sunscreen Octinoxate 7 . 5 % sunscreen Octisalate 2 . 75 % sunscreen Oxybenzone 5 % sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun proctection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun • Retains SPF up to 80 minutes of activity in the water Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if : Rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Directions • Apply liberally and evenly to dry skin 15 minutes before sun exposure and as often as needed .
• Re - apply at least every 2 hours ; after 80 minutes of swimming or perspiring ; immediately after towel drying .
• Children under 6 months of age , consult your physician • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regualarly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Water ( Aqua ) , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Dimethicone , Corn Start Modified , Hexylene Glycol , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Glcyerin , Cetearyl Alcohol , PEG - 12 Dimethicone , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Panthenol , Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Butyrospermum Parkii ( shea ) Oil , Epilobium Angustifolium Flower / leaf / stem extract , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sorbitan Stearate , Xanthan Gum , Caprylyl Glycol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Calcium Pantothenate , Sodium Hydroxide , Chlorphenesin , Disodium EDTA , Potassium Sorbate , PEG - 40 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol ( Malin + Goetz ) SPF 30 Face Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 30 All skin types Water Resistant 1 . 7 fl .
oz .
50 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
