Drug Facts Active Ingredient Menthol 6 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple backache • muscle strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only When using this product • use only as directed • do not bandage tightly • do not use with heating pad • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness or irritation develops • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience burning , swelling or blistering where applied If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years : • clean and dry affected area • trim excessive hair for better adhesion • open pouch and remove patch • remove backing from patch by grasping both ends and pulling backing apart • peel off one half of backing and place patch onto affected area • peel off other half of backing and press and smooth onto skin • use patch as needed for up to 8 hours .
Do not remove when wet or directly after showering or bathing .
Allow patch to dry and then slowly remove .
• use on affected area no more than 3 - 4 times daily Children under 12 years : consult a doctor Other Information Store in a cool , dry place at room temperature Inactive ingredients acrylic adhesive , black cohosh , chamomile , d - limonene , dipropylene glycol , eucalyptus , magnesium chloride , polysorbate 80 , tocopheryl acetate ( Vitamin E ) , white curcumin Questions : Call 855 - 438 - 3944 NEW !
designed for MENOPAUSAL WOMEN * SOOTHING PAIN RELIEF WITHOUT PILLS Backache • Joint Pain Arthritis Pain USE UP TO 8 HOURS NATURAL MENTHOL INVIGORATING EUCALYPTUS AROMATHERAPY Thoughtfully Formulated with Ingredients from Nature !
Eucalyptus Balck Cohosh Chamomile Magnesium PainBloc24 ® is a registered trademark of Vizuri Health Sciences Consumer Healthcare , Inc .
Distributed by VHS Consumer Healthcare 163 Waterfront Street , Suite 400 A National Harbor , MD 20745 © 2021 Vizuri Health Sciences Consumer Healthcare , Inc .
www . PainBloc24 . com Vizuri ® HEALTH SCIENCES CONSUMER HEALTHCARE , INC .
PainBloc24 ® ProWomen began with the idea of fulfilling the unmet wellness needs of women .
As a woman - led company , we began developing products designed by women for women .
We learned , that like ourselves , when it comes to our health and wellness , women want to take fewer pills and use more products that are backed by science , but are inspired by nature .
Our ProWomen products are thoughtfully developed with these goals in mind .
* As women start entering perimenopause and menopause , they often begin experiencing more arthritis and joint pain .
We developed a pain patch specially designed for them .
With natural menthol and invigorating eucalyptus , our Pain Relief Patch helps relieve backaches , joint and arthritis pain .
Use any time for effective , soothing pain relief .
Provides targeted relief right where you need it 4 - way stretch fabric is lightweight , thin and breathable Proprietary dry adhesive technology .
Goes on dry & stays in place all day .
So comfortable , you wo n't even know it ' s there FSA / HSA ELIGIBLE THANK YOU for trying PainBloc24 ® ProWomen Pain Relief Patches .
Your feedback is important to us and we ' d love to hear from you .
Please share your experience with us at at @ ProWomenWellness Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
