Description Effer - K ® 10 mEq and 20 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) are intended for the preparation of an oral solution of potassium .
Each 10 mEq tablet contains 1 . 0 g potassium bicarbonate and 0 . 84 g citric acid which , after effervescing , provides a solution containing 10 mEq ( 391 mg ) of elemental potassium as potassium citrate .
Each 20 mEq tablet contains 2 . 0 g potassium bicarbonate and 1 . 68 g citric acid which , after effervescing , provides a solution containing 20 mEq ( 782 mg ) of elemental potassium as potassium citrate .
Tablets also contain maltodextrin , anhydrous dextrose and l - leucine .
In addition , the flavored tablets contain SD flavors , and sucralose .
The 10 mEq Cherry Vanilla tablets contain FD & C Red # 40 and the 20 mEq Orange Cream tablets contain FD & C Yellow # 6 and FD & C Red # 40 .
The Unflavored 10 and 20 mEq tablets do not contain any natural or synthetic dyes , flavors or sweeteners .
The 10 mEq tablets are 11 / 16 inch diameter round , flat face on both sides with large bevels .
EK 10 is imprinted on one side .
The 20 mEq tablets are 7 / 8 inch diameter round , flat face on both sides with large bevels .
EK 20 is imprinted on one side .
Each tablet is pouched with the product description on one side of the pouch and the lot number , expiration date and bar code on the other Clinical Pharmacology Potassium ion is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues , whereas sodium ion is relatively low in concentration .
In extracellular fluid the opposite exists , sodium ion being principal and potassium ion being low .
The situation is maintained by an active membrane - bound enzyme ( Na + K + ATPase ) .
This potassium ion concentration gradient is essential to conduct nerve impulses in such specialized tissues as the brain , heart , and skeletal muscle ; and in addition , to maintain normal renal function , acid - base balance , and various cellular metabolic functions .
Elimination values are 90 % renal and 10 % fecal .
Potassium depletion may occur if the rate of potassium ion loss by renal excretion and / or loss from the gastrointestinal tract exceeds the rate of potassium ion intake .
Such depletion usually develops slowly as a consequence of prolonged therapy with oral diuretics , primary or secondary hyperaldosteronism , diabetic ketoacidosis , severe diarrhea , or inadequate replacement of potassium in patients on prolonged parenteral nutrition .
Potassium depletion due to these causes is usually accompanied by a concomitant deficiency of chloride and is manifested by hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis .
Potassium depletion may produce weakness , fatigue , mood or mental changes , nausea , vomiting , disturbances of cardiac rhythm ( primarily ectopic beats ) , prominent U - waves in the electrocardiogram , and in advanced cases flaccid paralysis and / or impaired ability to concentrate urine .
Indications and Usage • For therapeutic use in patients with hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis ; in chronic digitalis intoxication ; and in patients with hypokalemic familial periodic paralysis .
• For prevention of potassium depletion when the dietary intake of potassium ion is inadequate in the following conditions ; patients receiving digitalis and diuretics for congestive heart failure ; hepatic cirrhosis with ascites ; states of aldosterone excess with normal renal function ; potassium - losing nephropathy , and certain diarrheal states ; long - term corticosteroid therapy .
• The use of potassium salts in patients receiving diuretics for uncomplicated essential hypertension or receiving certain antibiotics is often unnecessary when such patients have a normal dietary pattern .
Serum potassium should be checked periodically , however , and , if hypokalemia occurs , dietary supplementation with potassium - containing foods may be adequate to control milder cases .
In more severe cases supplementation with potassium salts may be indicated .
Contraindications Potassium supplements are contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia since a further increase in serum potassium concentration in such patients can produce cardiac arrest .
Conditions predisposing to hyperkalemia include : chronic renal failure , acute metabolic acidosis , uncontrolled diabetes mellitus , esophageal compression or delayed gastric emptying or intestinal obstruction / stricture or peptic ulcer .
Potassium supplements should be used with caution and only where medically indicated in patients with familial periodic paralysis , myotonia congenita or severe / complete heart block .
IMPORTANT : Potassium supplements are contraindicated in patients receiving potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . spironolactone , triamterene ) since such use may produce severe hyperkalemia .
Warnings In patients with hyperkalemia and impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium the administration of potassium salts can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
This occurs most commonly in patients given potassium by the intravenous route but may also occur in patients given potassium orally .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium salts in patients with chronic renal disease , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion , requires particularly careful monitoring of the serum potassium concentration and appropriate dosage adjustment .
Note : There is no conclusive evidence that potassium supplements lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Precautions The diagnosis of potassium depletion is ordinarily made by demonstrating hypokalemia in a patient with a clinical history suggesting some cause for potassium depletion .
In interpreting the serum potassium level , the physician should bear in mind that acute alkalosis per se can produce hypokalemia in the absence of a deficit in total body potassium , while acute acidosis per se can increase the serum potassium concentration into the normal range even in the presence of a reduced total body potassium .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis , requires careful attention to acid - base balance and appropriate monitoring of serum electrolytes , the electrocardiogram , and the clinical status of the patient .
Information for patients To minimize the possibility of gastrointestinal irritation associated with the oral ingestion of concentrated potassium salt preparations , patients should be directed to dissolve each dose completely in the stated amount of water .
Each dose should be taken immediately after a meal or with food .
Patients should avoid low - salt foods and salt substitutes , unless approved by physician .
The patient should be cautioned to comply strictly with the regimen , particularly when taking diuretics or digitalis , to visit the physician regularly and to report at once any unusual symptoms ( e . g . blackish stools , a sign of gastrointestinal bleeding ) .
As with any other medicine , the patient should be counseled on this background information and advised to report to the physician any changes in routine ( e . g . starting a fitness program ) .
Proper storage and handling of the product is important .
Tablets should not be removed from foil pouch until shortly before use .
Laboratory tests Frequent clinical evaluation of the patient should include an ECG and a serum potassium level ; also , as appropriate , renal function , serum magnesium and serum pH . Drug Interactions The simultaneous administration of potassium supplements and a potassium - sparing diuretic can produce severe hyperkalemia ( see Contraindications ) .
Potassium supplements should be used cautiously in patients who are using salt substitutes , because most of the latter contain substantial amounts of potassium .
Such concomitant use could result in hyperkalemia .
Moreover , the following drugs may produce unfavorable interactions when used concomitantly with potassium supplements : angiotension - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , nonsteroid anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , beta - adrenergic blocking drugs , heparin , low - salt foods , other potassium containing medications , digitalis glycosides and others .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Potassium is an essential constituent of the human diet .
There are no data available on long - term potential for carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility in animals or in human beings .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Effer - K ® 10 mEq or 20 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) .
It is also not known whether these products can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
Effer - K ® 10 mEq or 20 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Information unknown .
Nursing Mothers Although no studies have been done , it is presumed that potassium is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Effer - K ® 10 mEq or 20 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) are administered to a nursing woman .
Usage in Children Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Adverse Reactions One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia ( see Contraindications , Warnings and Overdosage ) .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , and diarrhea .
These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further , taking the dose with meals , or reducing the dose .
Skin rash has been reported rarely .
Overdosage The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired or if potassium is administered too rapidly intravenously , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result ( see Contraindications and Warnings ) .
It is important to recognize that initally hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment , and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and potassium - sparing diuretics , as well as ACE inhibitors , beta blocking agents , NSAIDs , heparin , and cyclosporine .
In cases of life - threatening hyperkalemia , treatment measures may include : ( 1 ) intravenous administration of 300 to 500 ml / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 - 20 units of insulin per 1 , 000 ml ; ( 2 ) correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate ; ( 3 ) use of exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis ; ( 4 ) administration of a calcium salt to antagonize the cardiotoxic effects in patients whose electrocardiograms show appropriate characteristics , and who are not receiving digitalis glycosides ; and ( 5 ) maintenance of a high urine output in suitable patients .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , rapid lowering of serum potassium can produce digitalis toxicity .
Dosage and administration Effer - K ® 10 mEq .
Adults - one tablet ( Cherry Vanilla or Unflavored ) each containing 10 mEq .
( 391 mg ) of elemental potassium , 1 to 4 times daily , depending on the requirement of the patient .
Completely dissolve the Cherry Vanilla flavored tablet in 2 to 3 ounces ( 58 to 85 mL ) of cold or ice water before drinking .
Completely dissolve the Unflavored tablet in 2 to 3 ounces ( 58 to 85 mL ) of cold juice of choice before drinking .
Effer - K ® 20 mEq .
Adults - one tablet ( Orange Cream or Unflavored ) each containing 20 mEq .
( 782 mg ) of elemental potassium , 1 to 4 times daily , depending on the requirement of the patient .
Completely dissolve the Orange Cream flavored tablet in 3 to 4 ounces ( 85 to 115 mL ) of cold or ice water before drinking .
Completely dissolved the Unflavored tablet in 3 to 4 ounces ( 85 to 115 mL ) of cold juice of choice before drinking .
NOTE : It is suggested that any effervescent potassium tablet be taken with meals and sipped slowly over a 5 to 10 minute period .
How Supplied Each tablet of Effer - K ® 10 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) in solution provides 10 mEq ( 391 mg ) of elemental potassium as potassium citrate .
Each tablet of Effer - K ® 20 mEq Tablets ( Effervescent Potassium Bicarbonate / Citric Acid Tablets for Oral Solution , USP ) in solution provides 20 mEq ( 782 mg ) of elemental potassium as potassium citrate .
Store below 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) , preferably between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) , in original hermetic package .
The 10 mEq tablets are 11 / 16 inch diameter round , flat face on both sides with large bevels .
EK 10 is imprinted on one side of the tablet .
Each tablet is pouched with the product description on one side of the pouch and the lot number , expiration date and barcode on the other .
The 20 mEq tablets are 7 / 8 inch diameter round , flat face on both sides with large bevels .
EK 20 is imprinted on one side of the tablet .
Each tablet is pouched with the product description on one side of the pouch and the lot number , expiration date and barcode on the other .
NDC 51801 - 01330 Unflavored , 10 mEq , package of 30 tablets NDC 51801 - 01430 Cherry Vanilla , 10 mEq , package of 30 tablets NDC 51801 - 01130 Unflavored , 20 mEq , package of 30 tablets NDC 51801 - 01230 Orange Cream , 20 mEq , package of 30 tablets Nomax , Inc .
St . Louis , MO 63123 - Made in USA MSN 015 - 183 Rev . 05 / 12 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mEq Tablet Pouch Carton - Unflavored NDC 51801 - 013 - 30 30 Tablets Effer - K ® 10 mEq Tablets POTASSIUM BICARBONATE / CITRIC ACID EFFERVESCENT TABLETS FOR ORAL SOLUTION , USP Upon effervescing , each tablet provides 10 mEq ( 391 mg ) of potassium in solution as potassium citrate .
Unflavored Rx Only nomax inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mEq Tablet Pouch Carton - Cherry Vanilla NDC 51801 - 014 - 30 30 Tablets Effer - K ® 10 mEq Tablets POTASSIUM BICARBONATE / CITRIC ACID EFFERVESCENT TABLETS FOR ORAL SOLUTION , USP Upon effervescing , each tablet provides 10 mEq ( 391 mg ) of potassium in solution as potassium citrate .
Cherry Vanilla Rx Only nomax inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mEq Tablet Pouch Carton - Unflavored NDC 51801 - 011 - 30 30 Tablets Effer - K ® 20 mEq Tablets POTASSIUM BICARBONATE / CITRIC ACID EFFERVESCENT TABLETS FOR ORAL SOLUTION , USP Upon effervescing , each tablet provides 20 mEq ( 782 mg ) of potassium in solution as potassium citrate .
Unflavored Rx Only nomax inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mEq Tablet Pouch Carton - Orange Cream NDC 51801 - 012 - 30 30 Tablets Effer - K ® 20 mEq Tablets POTASSIUM BICARBONATE / CITRIC ACID EFFERVESCENT TABLETS FOR ORAL SOLUTION , USP Upon effervescing , each tablet provides 20 mEq ( 782 mg ) of potassium in solution as potassium citrate .
Orange Cream Rx Only nomax inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
