Main active ingredient 70 % ( v / v ) ethanol • THIS ITEM HAS DISINFECTION FUNCTION , CONVENIENT USE TO KILL 99 . 9 % OF GERMS .
• Effective for germs like : colibasillus .
Candida albicans anc Staphylococcus aureus .
• Scope of application : hands cleaning and disifection .
• Main active ingredient : 70 % ( V / V ) ethanol • Ingredients : water , EDTA disodium , carbomer , triethanolamine , ethyalcohol .
• Usage : for hands disinfection , take out about 2 ml of gel , rub it on the skin for 1 minute , it can be dry without washing .
Repeated use make a slight sticky feeling , please wash with water .
• Notice : Flammable , please keep it away from fire . Please store it in an environment below 50 ℃ .
external used , do n't take it by mouth , and do n't contact with the eyes directly , once contacting with eyes , please wash eyes with plenty of clean water quickly .
Please close it well after use to avoid volatilization . Take caution if you are allergic to alcohol .
• Period of validity : 2 years Scope of application Hands cleaning and disifection Usage for hands disinfection , take out about 2 ml of gel , rub it on the skin for 1 minute , it can be dry without washing .
Repeated use make a slight sticky feeling , please wash with water .
Notice Flammable , please keep it away from fire . Please store it in an environment below 50 ℃ .
external used , don ' ttake it by mouth , and do n't contact with the eyes directly , once contacting with eyes , please wash eyes with plenty of clean water quickly .
Please close it well after use to avoid volatilization . Take caution if you are allergic to alcohol .
Do not use • Avoid contacting with eyes , and damaged skin Flammable , please keep it away from fire . Please store it in an environment below 50 ° c . external used , don ' ttake it by mouth , and do n't contact with the eyes directly , once contacting with eyes , please wash eyes with plenty of clean water quickly .
Please close it well after use to avoid volatilization . Take caution if you are allergic to alcohol .
Take caution if you are allergic to alcohol .
Keep our of reach of children .
Avoid contacting with eyes , and damaged skin Directions Avoid contacting with eyes , and damaged skin Other information • Please store it in an environment below 50 ℃ ingredients water , EDTA disodium , carbomer , triethanolamine , ethyl alcohol .
Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
