Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves mild to moderate aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with muscle soreness , strains , sprains , arthritis , simple backache , muscle stiffness , bruises .
Warnings For external use only .
Use only as directed or as directed by a health care professional .
Do not use : • On wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin .
• On eyes , mouth , genitals , or any other mucous membranes .
Allergy Alert : if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers or any inactive ingredient of this product , contact a doctor before use .
When using this product : • You may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes .
• Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area .
• Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use .
Stop use and ask a physician : • rash , itching or excessive skin irritation develops .
• conditions worsen .
• symptoms persist for more than 7 days .
• symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately .
Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day .
Do not leave patch on for more than 8 hours at a time .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Clean and dry the affected area .
Open pouch and remove one patch .
Remove any protective film and apply directly to affected area of pain .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches .
Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
Discontinue use at least one hour prior to bath , shower , or swimming ; do not use immediately after bath , shower , or swimming .
Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Children under 18 years : Ask a physician Inactive ingredients Adhesive , myrrh gum , zinc oxide .
Other information Some individuals may not experience pain relief until several minutes or hours after applying the patch .
Store in a cool , dry place .
Protect the product from excessive moisture or sunlight .
Store at 67 - 77 ° F ( 19 - 25 ° C ) .
Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
