[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 50 mg of sulfur in an emulsion base containing 10 % Urea , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , fragrance , glyceryl stearate and PEG 100 stearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol and xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) is contraindicated for patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Rarely , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Use particular caution on areas of denuded or abraded skin .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS : General : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients : Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) .
It also is not known whether 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be excreted in human milk .
For this reason , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Rarely , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) .
Wash affected area once or twice daily , or as directed by a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Wet skin and apply a generous amount to areas to be cleansed .
Gently work into a full lather , massaging into the skin for 10 - 20 seconds .
If drying of the skin occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off the cleanser sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) is available in a 12 oz .
( 355 mL ) bottle , NDC 13925 - 161 - 12 .
Store 10 % Sodium Sulfacetamide 5 % Sulfur Cleanser ( in a Urea vehicle ) at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
Manufactured for : Seton Pharmaceuticals Manasquan , NJ 08736 1 - 800 - 510 - 3401 Iss .
5 / 11 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 13925 - 161 - 12 10 % SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 5 % SULFUR CLEANSER ( in a Urea vehicle ) Rx Only Indicated for the topical treatment of : Acne Rosacea Acne Vulgaris Seborrheic Dermatitis 12 oz .
( 355 mL ) SETON [ MULTIMEDIA ]
