ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Centella Asiatica Extract 0 . 09 % Propolis Extract 0 . 001 % Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil 0 . 001 % PURPOSE Inflammation care Inflammation care Inflammation care Uses Self - purification System suppress harmful bacteria and activate beneficial bacteria to create a healthy environment .
WARNINGS 1 .
For vaginal use only 2 .
When using or after using cosmetics , the area of use is red spots due to direct sunlight .
If you have abnormal symptoms or side effects such as swelling or itching , consult a specialist .
3 .
Refrain from using it in areas with wounds .
4 .
Precautions for storage and handling A ) Keep it out of reach of children .
B ) Keep it away from direct sunlight .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep it out of reach of children .
Directions 1 .
After washing hands , open the packaging .
2 .
Take out about one third of the stick and hold the tip with the other hand .
3 .
Remove the cap on the tip whilst it is still in the packaging .
4 .
Place the tip on the wanted area and push the piston fully .
5 .
Hygienically throw away the used stick by putting it back into the packaging .
Other Information Keep away from direct sunlight Questions Customer service www . hucordbio . com 031 - 732 - 1555 Inactive ingredients Water , Butylene Glycol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Arginine , Lysine , Threonine , Leucine , Proline , Glycine , Ascorbic Acid , Cysteine , Methionine , Inositol , Niacinamide , Folic Acid , Thiamine HCl , Cyanocobalamin , Calcium Pantothenate , Biotin , Riboflavin , Collagen , Fibronectin , Oligopeptide - 2 , Oligopeptide - 6 , Trehalose , Propanediol , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Lactic Acid , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Illicium Verum ( Anise ) Fruit Extract , Leonurus Sibiricus Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Nelumbo Nucifera Flower Extract , Sophora Flavescens Extract , Acorus Gramineus Extract , Artemisia Princeps Leaf Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Glycyrrhiza Uralensis ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Glycine Max ( Soybean ) Phytoplacenta Extract , Houttuynia Cordata Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Honey Extract , Lactobacillus Ferment , Saccharomyces Ferment Filtrate , Bifida Ferment Filtrate , Caprylyl Glycol , Fructooligosaccharides , Ethylhexylglycerin PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
