Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) For 180 mg : Fexofenadine HCl , USP 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring .
Warnings Severe Allergy Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • trouble swallowing • dizziness or loss of consciousness • swelling of tongue • swelling in or around mouth • trouble speaking • drooling • wheezing or problems breathing These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for “ anaphylaxis ” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use • to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insect stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
• if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • hives that do not itch When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask doctor if • an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For 180 mg : adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • safety sealed ; do not use if inner safety seal is open or torn • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized maize starch , titanium dioxide Questions ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 weekdays .
Principal Display Panel For 180 mg : Label NDC 62756 - 545 - 15 Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 180 mg HIVES ( 24 Hour ) Reduces HIVES and Relieves ITCHING due to hives Antihistamine ORIGINAL PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH NON - DROWSY 30 Tablets 180 mg each Actual Size [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel For 180 mg : Carton NDC 62756 - 545 - 15 Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 180 mg HIVES ( 24 Hour ) Reduces HIVES and Relieves ITCHING due to hives Antihistamine NON - DROWSY 30 Tablets 180 mg each Actual Size [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel For 180 mg : Blister Pack NDC 62756 - 545 - 15 ORIGINAL PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH NON - DROWSY Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 180 mg HIVES ( 24 Hour ) Reduces HIVES and Relieves ITCHING due to hives Antihistamine 5 ( 1 x 5 ) Tablets 180 mg each Actual Size DO NOT USE IF INDIVIDUAL BLISTER UNIT IS OPEN OR TORN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel For 180 mg : Blister Foil Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 24 Hour 180 mg HIVES Antihistamine Mfg . by : Sun Pharmaceutical Ind .
Ltd . , India .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
