ACTIVE INGREDIENT Phenylephrine HCI , 0 . 25 % Witch Hazel , 50 % PURPOSE Vasoconstrictor Astringent USES • Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Temporary relief of itching and burning • Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue • Aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas WARNINGS For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put into the rectum using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor • if bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying gel .
• When first opening the tube , puncture foil seal with top end of cap • Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning , or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years : ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature : 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS aloe barbadensis gel , benzophenone - 4 , edetate disodium , hydroxyethylcellulose , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , sodium citrate , vitamin E , water PACKAGE INFORMATION GOOD NEIGHBOR PHARMACY NDC 24385 - 421 - 06 HEMORRHOIDAL Cooling Gel with Vitamin E and Aloe Fast cooling relief from painful burning and itching Net Wt .
0 . 9 oz .
( 26 g ) Fast cooling relief • Clear , non - greasy formula with no unpleasant scent • Prompt cooling relief from painful burning and itching • Shrinks swollen hemorrhoidal tissue • Relieves external discomfort * Compare to active ingredients in Preparation H ® Cooling Gel FOR YOUR SAFETY , TUBE IS SEALED .
DO NOT USE IF TUBE SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Wyeth Consumer Healthcare , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Preparation H ® .
Distributed By AmerisourceBergen Valley Forge , PA 19482 - 0959 Visit us at www . myGNP . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
