SPL UNCLASSIFIED EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AVAILABLE AS : EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP , 0 . 1 mg / mL FOR INTRACARDIAC OR INTRAVENOUS USE DESCRIPTION Epinephrine is the active principle of the adrenal medulla .
Chemically described as ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methyl - amino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol , it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epinephrine is a sterile aqueous solution of epinephrine prepared with the aid of hydrochloric acid .
Each mL of the solution contains 0 . 1 mg epinephrine and 1 mg sodium bisulfite .
Sodium bisulfite is an antioxidant .
This solution also contains sodium chloride for adjustment of tonicity , and 10 % w / v hydrochloric acid to dissolve epinephrine and to adjust pH to meet USP limits of 2 . 2 to 5 . 0 .
Additionally , the solution also contains sodium citrate and citric acid as buffers for stabilization .
The air above the liquid in the individual containers have been displaced by flushing with nitrogen during the filling operation .
No antimicrobial preservatives have been added and each vial is intended as a single dose ; once the unit is assembled and used , any remaining portion of the solution must be discarded with the entire unit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINIAL PHARMACOLOGY The actions of epinephrine resemble the effects of stimulation of adrenergic nerves .
To a variable degree , it acts on both alpha and beta receptor sites of sympathetic effector cells .
Its most prominent actions are on the beta receptors of the heart , vascular and other smooth muscle .
When given by rapid I . V . injection it produces a rapid rise in blood pressure , mainly systolic , direct stimulation of cardiac muscle which increases the strength of ventricular contraction , increases the heart rate , and constricts the arterioles in the skin , mucosa and splanchnic areas of circulation .
Epinephrine relaxes the smooth muscle of the bronchi and iris and is a physiologic antagonist of histamine .
The drug also produces an increase in blood sugar and glycogenolysis in the liver .
Blood pressure : When given by slow I . V . injection , epinephrine usually produces a moderate rise in systolic and a fall in diastolic pressure .
Although some increase in pulse pressure occurs , there is usually no great elevation in mean blood pressure .
Accordingly , the compensatory reflex mechanisms that cause a pronounced increase in blood pressure do not antagonize the direct cardiac actions of epinephrine as much as with catecholamines that have a predominant action on alpha receptors .
Total peripheral resistance : By action of epinephrine on beta receptors of the skeletal muscle vasculature , total peripheral resistance decreases , and blood flow is thereby enhanced .
Usually , this vasodilator effect predominates so that the modest rise in systolic pressure which follows slow injection or absorption is the result of direct cardiac stimulation and increase in cardiac output .
In some instances , peripheral resistance is not altered or may even rise , owing to a greater ratio of alpha to beta activity in different vascular areas .
Pharmacokinetics : Intravenous injection produces an immediate and intensified response .
Following I . V . injection , epinephrine disappears rapidly from the blood stream .
Subcutaneously or I . M . administered epinephrine has a rapid onset and short duration of action .
Subcutaneous administration during asthmatic attacks may produce bronchodilation within 5 to 10 minutes , and maximal effects may occur within 20 minutes .
The drug becomes fixed in the tissues and is rapidly inactivated chiefly by enzymic transformation to metanephrine or normetanephrine , either of which is subsequently conjugated and excreted in the urine in the form of sulfates and glucuronides .
Either sequence results in the formation of 3 - methoxy - 4 - hydroxy - mandelic acid ( vanillylmandelic acid , VMA ) which is also detectable in the urine .
INDICATIONS & USAGE EPINEPHRINE Epinephrine ’ s cardiac effects may be of use in the treatment and prophylaxis of cardiac arrest due to various causes in the absence of ventricular fibrillation and attacks of transitory atrioventricular ( AV ) heart block with syncopal seizures ( Stokes - Adams syndrome ) , but it is not used in cardiac failure or in hemorrhagic , traumatic or in cardiogenic shock .
Epinephrine may be used to stimulate the heart in syncope due to complete heart block or carotid sinus hypersensitivity .
Epinephrine is also used for resuscitation in cardiac arrest following anesthetic accidents .
In cardiopulmonary resuscitation , intracardiac puncture and intramyocardial injection of epinephrine may be effective when external cardiac compression and attempts to restore the circulation by electrical defibillation or use of a pacemaker fail .
Epinephrine is seldom used as a vasopressor except in the treatment of anaphylactic shock and under certain conditions in insulin shock .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Epinephrine should not be used in the presence of cardiac dilatation or coronary insufficiency .
Epinephrine is contraindicated in shock during general anesthesia with halogenated hydrocarbons or cyclopropane , and in individuals with organic brain damage .
Epinephrine is also contraindicated with local anesthesia of certain areas ; e . g . , fingers , toes , because of the danger of vasoconstriction producing sloughing of tissue ; also contraindicated in labor because it may delay the second stage .
Epinephrine should not be used in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated , e . g . , in thyrotoxicosis , diabetes , in obstetrics when maternal blood pressure is in excess of 130 / 80 , and in hypertension and other cardiovascular disorders .
WARNINGS EPINEPHRINE Contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic rather than in non - asthmatic people .
Use with caution in the following : Elderly ; those with cardiovascular disease , hypertension , diabetes , or hyperthyroidism ; in psychoneurotic individuals ; bronchial asthma and emphysema with degenerative heart disease .
Cardiovascular effects : Inadvertently induced high arterial blood pressure may result in angina pectoris ( especially when coronary insufficiency is present ) , or aortic rupture .
Epinephrine may induce potentially serious cardiac arrhythmias in patients not suffering from heart disease and patients with organic heart disease or who are receiving drugs that sensitize the myocardium .
With Epinephrine , a paradoxical but transient lowering of blood pressure , bradycardia and apnea may occur immediately after injection .
Cerebrovascular hemorrhage : Overdosage or inadvertent I . V . injection of epinephrine may cause cerebrovascular hemorrhage resulting from the sharp rise in the blood pressure .
Pulmonary edema : Fatalities may also result from pulmonary edema because of the peripheral constriction and cardiac stimulation produced .
PRECAUTIONS Although epinephrine can produce ventricular fibrillation , its actions in restoring electrical activity in asystole and in enhancing defibrillation are well documented .
However , it should be used with caution in patients with ventricular fibrillation .
In patients with prefibrillatory rhythm , I . V . epinephrine must be used with extreme caution because of its excitatory action on the heart .
Since the myocardium is sensitized to the drug by many anesthetic agents , epinephrine may convert asystole to ventricular fibrillation if used in the treatment of anesthetic cardiac accidents .
Hypovolemia : Use is not a substitute for the replacement of blood , plasma , fluids , and electrolytes , which should be restored promptly when loss has occurred .
Drug interactions : Epinephrine must not be administered concomitantly with other sympathomimetic drugs ( such as isoproterenol ) because of possible additive effects and increased toxicity .
Combined effects may induce serious cardiac arrhythmias .
They may be administered alternately when the preceding effect of other such drugs has subsided .
Epinephrine is readily destroyed by alkalies and oxidizing agents ( e . g . , oxygen , chlorine , bromine , iodine , permanganates , chromates , nitrites , and salts of easily reducible metals , especially iron ) .
The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants , certain antihistamines ( e . g . , diphenhydramine , tripelennamine , chlorpheniramine ) and sodium I - thyroxine .
In obstetrics , if vasopressor drugs are used either to correct hypotension or added to the local anesthetic solution , some oxytocic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension ; even rupture of a cerebral blood vessel may occur during the postpartum period .
All vasopressors should be used cautiously in patients taking monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
Cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics such as halothane which sensitize the myocardium may induce cardiac arrhythmia .
( See Contraindications . )
When encountered , such arrhythmias may respond to administration of a beta - adrenergic blocking drug .
Diruretic agents may decrease vascular response to pressor drugs such as epinephrine .
Epinephrine may antagonize the neuron blockade produced by guanethidine resulting in decreased antihypertensive effect and requiring increased dosage of the latter .
Use of epinephrine with excessive doses of digitalis , mercurial diuretics or other drugs that sensitize the heart to arrhythmias is not recommended .
Rapidly acting vasodilators such as nitrites or alpha - blocking agents may counteract the marked pressor effects of epinephrine .
Propranolol administered concomitantly with epinephrine may block the beta - adrenergic effects of epinephrine , causing hypertension .
Usage in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C Epinephrine is teratogenic in small animals when given in doses about 25 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Usage in Labor and Delivery : Parenteral administration of epinephrine , if used to support blood pressure during low or other spinal anesthesia for delivery , can cause acceleration of fetal heart rate and should not be used in obstetrics when maternal blood pressure exceeds 130 / 80 .
Usage in Children : Epinephrine should be administered with caution to infants and children .
Syncope has occurred following the administration of epinephrine to asthmatic children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient and minor : Anxiety , headache , fear , and palpitations often occur with therapeutic doses , especially in hyperthyroid and hypertensive individuals .
Cardiac arrhythmias and excessive rise in blood pressure may occur with therapeutic doses or inadvertent overdosage .
Local : Repeated local injections can result in necrosis at sites of injection from vascular constriction .
Systemic : Cerebral hemorrhage ; hemiplegia ; subarachnoid hemorrhage ; anginal pain in patients with angina pectoris ; anxiety ; restlessness ; throbbing headache ; tremor ; weakness ; dizziness ; pallor ; respiratory difficulty ; palpitation ; apprehensiveness ; sweating ; nausea ; vomiting .
“ Epinephrine - fastness ” can occur with prolonged use .
OVERDOSAGE Transient and minor : Anxiety , headache , fear , and palpitations often occur with therapeutic doses , especially in hyperthyroid and hypertensive individuals .
Cardiac arrhythmias and excessive rise in blood pressure may occur with therapeutic doses or inadvertent overdosage .
Local : Repeated local injections can result in necrosis at sites of injection from vascular constriction .
Systemic : Cerebral hemorrhage ; hemiplegia ; subarachnoid hemorrhage ; anginal pain in patients with angina pectoris ; anxiety ; restlessness ; throbbing headache ; tremor ; weakness ; dizziness ; pallor ; respiratory difficulty ; palpitation ; apprehensiveness ; sweating ; nausea ; vomiting .
“ Epinephrine - fastness ” can occur with prolonged use .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION EPINEPHRINE As Cardiac Stimulant : Intravenous or Intracardiac Injection Administer by I . V . injection and / or in cardiac arrest , by intracardiac injection into the left ventricular chamber .
Intracardiac injection should only be administered by personnel well trained in the technique , if there has not been sufficient time to establish an intravenous route .
Adult Dosage : 1 - 10 mL ( 0 . 1 - 1 mg of epinephrine ) , repeated every five minutes , if necessary .
Pediatric Dosage : 0 . 05 - 0 . 1 mL / kg of body weight ( 0 . 005 - 0 . 01 mg / kg ) e . g . , 2 kg infant would receive 0 . 1 - 0 . 2 mL of epinephrine .
NOTE : Do not inject if fibrillation is occurring .
As Vasopressor ( Anaphylaxis ) : Intravenous Injection Adult Dosage : 1 - 2 . 5 mL ( 0 . 1 - 0 . 25 mg of epinephrine ) , administered slowly .
May be repeated every 5 to 15 minutes as needed .
Pediatric Dosage : 3 mL ( 0 . 3 mg of epinephrine ) , repeated every 15 minutes for 3 or 4 doses , if necessary .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED EPINEPHRINE is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1381 - 1 EPINEPHRINE INJ .
USP , 0 . 1 mg / mL 1 mg per 10 mL LUER - JET ™ SYR HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SPL UNCLASSIFIED INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED REV . 3 - 16 SO .
EL MONTE , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company © INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SYRINGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 51662 - 1381 Carton Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
