Active Ingredients Camphor 3 . 1 % Menthol 5 % Purpose External Analgesic External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions .
Do not use ■ on irritated or damaged skin ■ on wounds Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have ■ any concerns about using this product When using this product ■ do not use otherwise than as directed ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage tightly ■ do not apply heat to the area in the form of heating pads , hot water bottles , or lamps ( doing so increases the risk of serious burns ) Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ you feel actual pain or experience blistering or burning after application ( it is normal to feel a warming or cooling sensation ) ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Report any unexpected side effects from the use of this product to the FDA MedWatch Program Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Adults and children 3 years of age and older : Cut to desired size , remove clear plastic film , and apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
■ Children under 3 years of age : Consult your physician .
Other information ■ keep in a tightly closed container ■ store at 15º to 30º C ( 59º to 86º F ) Inactive ingredients Angelica dahurica root , butylated hydroxytoluene , cinnamon oil , ginger , lanolin , light mineral oil , methyl salicylate , natural latex rubber , nepeta tenuifolia flowering top , ocimum gratissimum leaf oil , petrolatum , polyisobutylene , reynoutria japonica root , rheum officinale root , rosin , safflower , saposhnikovia divaricata root , scutellaria baicalensis root , zanthoxylum nitidum root and zinc oxide on an elastic cloth backing and covered with a polyethylene film .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number 701 DIEDA ZHENGTONG YAOGAO MEDICATED PLASTER External Analgesic Camphor and Menthol NDC 55614 - 620 - 02 1 Plaster - 3 . 93 x 157 inches ( 10 x 400 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 701 DIEDA ZHENGTONG YAOGAO MEDICATED PLASTER External Analgesic Camphor and Menthol NDC 55614 - 620 - 01 40 Plasters - Each Plaster 3 . 93 x 2 . 75 inches ( 10 x 7 cm ) 10 Pouches , 4 Plasters Per Pouch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
