Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 16 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • Simple backache • Arthritis • Strains • Bruises • Sprains Warnings For external use only Rare cases of burns have been reported with products of this type Flammable • keep away from fire or flame and heated surfaces • do not use near sparks or while smoking • do not use in a small or confined space • avoid long term storage above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) • do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• do not expose to temperature exceeding 119 ° F ( 48 ° C ) Do not use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product • on open wounds , damaged or irritated skin • with a heating pad or TENS device • near face • after expiration date When using this product • may cause a burning sensation wherever it is applied , but is usually mild and gradually lessens over time • do not bandage tightly • do not use otherwise than as directed • avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • avoid inhalation Stop use and ask a doctor if • burning sensation is painful and persistent • condition worsens • rash , itching , redness or excessive irritation of the skin develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over • spray affected area not more than 4 times daily • no need to rub • wash hands after each use with cold water Children under 12 years of age • consult a doctor Other information • store in a cool place away from direct sunlight • store with cap locked tightly Inactive ingredients [ 1 ] Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Arnica Extract , Glycerin , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Tea Tree Oil , Vanillyl Butyl Ether , Water .
[ 1 ] Symbol before the ingredient indicates certified organic .
Consumer Comments Call : 1 - 800 - 432 - 8629 Distributed by : KOBAYASHI Consumer Products , LLC P . O . Box 1191 , Dalton , GA 30722 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 96 g Can Label EXTRA STRENGTH ZIM ' S ™ MAX - FREEZE PRO FORMULA - LONGER LASTING * - PAIN RELIEF • - FAST ACTING • - LONG LASTING • - VANISHING SCENT CONTINUOUS COOLING SPRAY with 16 % Menthol Net Wt 3 . 4 oz ( 96 g ) * compared to original Continuous Multi - Way Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
