[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % is a wide spectrum antibiotic preparation for topical administration .
Each gram of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % contains Gentamicin Sulfate USP equivalent to 1 mg of gentamicin base in a base of light mineral oil and white petrolatum , with 0 . 5 mg methylparaben and 0 . 1 mg propylparaben as preservatives .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Gentamicin Sulfate is a wide spectrum antibiotic that provides highly effective topical treatment in primary and secondary bacterial infections of the skin .
This product may clear infections that have not responded to other topical antibiotic agents .
In impetigo contagiosa and other primary skin infections , treatment with a small amount of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment three to four times daily usually clears the lesions promptly .
In secondary skin infections , the product facilitates the treatment of the underlying dermatosis by controlling the infection .
Bacteria susceptible to the action of Gentamicin Sulfate include sensitive strains of Streptococci ( group A beta - hemolytic , alpha - hemolytic ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( coagulase positive , coagulase negative , and some penicillinase - producing strains ) , and the gram - negative bacteria , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Aerobacteraerogens , Escherichia coli , Proteus vulgaris and Klebsiellapneumoniae .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Primary skin infections : Impetigo contagiosa , superficial folliculitis , ecthyma , furunculosis , sycosis barbae , and pyoderma gangrenosum .
Secondary skin infections : Infectious eczematoid dermatitis , pustular acne , pustular psoriasis , infected seborrheic dermatitis , infected contact dermatitis ( including poison ivy ) , infected excoriations , and bacterial superinfections of fungal or viral infections .
NOTE : Gentamicin Sulfate is a bactericidal agent that is not effective against viruses or fungi in skin infections .
It is useful in the treatment of infected skin cysts and certain other skin abscesses when preceded by incision and drainage to permit adequate contact between the antibiotic and the infecting bacteria .
Good results have been obtained in the treatment of infected stasis and other skin ulcers , infected superficial burns , paronychia , infected insect bites and stings , infected lacerations and abrasions and wounds from minor surgery .
Patients sensitive to neomycin can be treated with Gentamicin Sulfate , although regular observation of patients sensitive to topical antibiotics is advisable when such patients are treated with any topical antibiotic .
Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % helps retain moisture and has been useful in infection on dry eczematous or psoriatic skin .
Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % has been used successfully in infants over one year of age as well as in adults and children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Use of topical antibiotics occasionally allows overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If this occurs , or if irritation , sensitization , or superinfection develops , treatment with Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with dermatoses treated with Gentamicin Sulfate , irritation ( erythema and pruritus ) that did not usually require discontinuance of treatment has been reported in a small percentage of cases .
There was no evidence of irritation or sensitization , however , in any of these patients patch - tested subsequently with gentamicin on normal skin .
Possible photosensitization has been reported in several patients but could not be elicited in these patients by reapplication of gentamicin followed by exposure to ultraviolet radiation .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % should be applied gently to lesions three to four times a day .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing , if desired .
In impetigo contagiosa , the crusts should be removed before application of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % to permit maximum contact between the antibiotic and the infection .
Care should be exercised to avoid further contamination of the infected skin .
Infected stasis ulcers have responded well to Gentamicin Sulfate under gelatin packing .
HOW SUPPLIED Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % is available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 52565 - 090 - 15 ) 30 g tube ( NDC 52565 - 090 - 30 ) STORAGE Store at 20 to 25 ˚ C ( 68 to 77 ˚ F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , NJ 08310 Revised : 04 / 2018 Principal Display Panel - Carton NDC 52565 - 090 - 15 Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment USP , 0 . 1 % * Net Wt .
15 grams Rx only For External Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use [ MULTIMEDIA ]
