Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other infromation cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , flavor , FD & C green no . 3 ADA council Statement The ADA council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Rite Aid Blue Mint Antiseptic Mouth rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson + Johnson Healthcare products , distributor of Listerine Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY : Rite Aid 30 Hunter Lane , Camp Hill , PA 17011 www .
riteaid . com SATISFACTION GUARANTEE If you are not satisfied , we ' ll happily refund your money principal display panel Sealed with printed neckband for your protection Compare to Cool Mint Listerine Antiseptic Mouthwash ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH ANTIGINGIVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE MOUTH RINSE BLUE MINT help reduce plaque & gingivitis fights bad breath child - resistant cap RITE AID PHARMACY 3 . 2 FL OZ ( 94 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
