This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Personal hand sanitizing wipe to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Open the plastic tab at the front of the bottle .
Pull up wipe and replace plastic cap .
Always snap lid securely shut between uses to prevent moisture loss .
• Take one wipe and rub onto hands to cover all surfaces .
Let hands air dry .
• NOT intended for intimate hygiene .
Dispose of used wipes in trash .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Storage Store at room temperature in a cool , dry place , avoid direct sunlight .
Store below 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) .
Do not reuse empty canister .
Inactive ingredients purified water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 70 Count NDC : 64646 - 399 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 180 Count NDC : 64646 - 399 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
