This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
• Methacrylic Acid - Ethyl Acrylate Copolymer ( 5 . 5 % v / v ) The firm does add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethanol 70 % .
Purpose : Antiseptic Hydrogen Peroxide < 1 % .
Purpose : Antiseptic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Use • For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only - hands .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
When usting this product keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Do not inhale or ingest .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Warnings • for children under 6 , use only under adult supervision • not recommended for infants • avoid contact with broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroghly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Do not ingest or inhale .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
• For childres under 6 , use only under adult supervision • Not recommended for infants Other information • Do not store above 105 ° F • May discolor some fabrics • harmful to wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , carbopol , lemongrass oil Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Package Label - Principal Display Panel 128 FL OZ ( 3785 ML ) 75219 - 7300 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
