1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEVEMIR is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
Important Limitations of Use : • LEVEMIR is not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis .
Intravenous rapid - acting or short - acting insulin is the preferred treatment for this condition .
LEVEMIR is a long - acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) Important Limitations of Use : • Not recommended for treating diabetic ketoacidosis .
Use intravenous , rapid - acting or short - acting insulin instead .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The starting dose should be individualized based on the type of diabetes and whether the patient is insulin - naïve ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • Administer subcutaneously once daily or in divided doses twice daily .
Once daily administration should be given with the evening meal or at bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Rotate injection sites within an injection area ( abdomen , thigh , or deltoid ) to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy ( 2 . 1 ) • Converting from other insulin therapies may require adjustment of timing and dose of LEVEMIR .
Closely monitor glucoses especially upon converting to LEVEMIR and during the initial weeks thereafter ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosing LEVEMIR is a recombinant human insulin analog for once - or twice - daily subcutaneous administration .
Patients treated with LEVEMIR once - daily should administer the dose with the evening meal or at bedtime .
Patients who require twice - daily dosing can administer the evening dose with the evening meal , at bedtime , or 12 hours after the morning dose .
The dose of LEVEMIR must be individualized based on clinical response .
Blood glucose monitoring is essential in all patients receiving insulin therapy .
Patients adjusting the amount or timing of dosing with LEVEMIR should only do so under medical supervision with appropriate glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In patients with type 1 diabetes , LEVEMIR must be used in a regimen with rapid - acting or short - acting insulin .
As with all insulins , injection sites should be rotated within the same region ( abdomen , thigh , or deltoid ) from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
LEVEMIR can be injected subcutaneously in the thigh , abdominal wall , or upper arm .
As with all insulins , the rate of absorption , and consequently the onset and duration of action , may be affected by exercise and other variables , such as stress , intercurrent illness , or changes in co - administered medications or meal patterns .
2 . 2 Initiation of LEVEMIR Therapy The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR in patients with type 1 diabetes should be approximately one - third of the total daily insulin requirements .
Rapid - acting or short - acting , pre - meal insulin should be used to satisfy the remainder of the daily insulin requirements .
The recommended starting dose of LEVEMIR in patients with type 2 diabetes who are not currently treated with insulin is 10 Units ( or 0 . 1 - 0 . 2 Units / kg ) given once daily in the evening or divided into a twice daily regimen .
LEVEMIR doses should subsequently be adjusted based on blood glucose measurements .
The dosages of LEVEMIR should be individualized under the supervision of a healthcare provider .
2 . 3 Converting to LEVEMIR from Other Insulin Therapies If converting from insulin glargine to LEVEMIR , the change can be done on a unit - to - unit basis .
If converting from NPH insulin , the change can be done on a unit - to - unit basis .
However , some patients with type 2 diabetes may require more LEVEMIR than NPH insulin , as observed in one trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
As with all insulins , close glucose monitoring is recommended during the transition and in the initial weeks thereafter .
Doses and timing of concurrent rapid - acting or short - acting insulins or other concomitant antidiabetic treatment may need to be adjusted .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LEVEMIR solution for injection 100 Unit per mL is available as : • 3 mL LEVEMIR FlexPen ® • 10 mL vial Solution for injection 100 Units / mL ( U - 100 ) in • 3 mL LEVEMIR FlexPen ® • 10 mL vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS LEVEMIR is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to LEVEMIR or any of its excipients .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to LEVEMIR or any of its excipients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Dose adjustment and monitoring : Monitor blood glucose in all patients treated with insulin .
Insulin regimens should be modified cautiously and only under medical supervision ( 5 . 1 ) • Administration : Do not dilute or mix with any other insulin or solution .
Do not administer subcutaneously via an insulin pump , intramuscularly , or intravenously because severe hypoglycemia can occur ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of insulin therapy and may be life - threatening ( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Allergic reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
( 5 . 4 ) • Renal or hepatic impairment : May require adjustment of the LEVEMIR dose ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 Dosage Adjustment and Monitoring Glucose monitoring is essential for all patients receiving insulin therapy .
Changes to an insulin regimen should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Changes in insulin strength , manufacturer , type , or method of administration may result in the need for a change in the insulin dose or an adjustment of concomitant anti - diabetic treatment .
As with all insulin preparations , the time course of action for LEVEMIR may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and is dependent on many conditions , including the local blood supply , local temperature , and physical activity .
5 . 2 Administration LEVEMIR should only be administered subcutaneously .
Do not administer LEVEMIR intravenously or intramuscularly .
The intended duration of activity of LEVEMIR is dependent on injection into subcutaneous tissue .
Intravenous or intramuscular administration of the usual subcutaneous dose could result in severe hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Do not use LEVEMIR in insulin infusion pumps .
Do not dilute or mix LEVEMIR with any other insulin or solution .
If LEVEMIR is diluted or mixed , the pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic profile ( e . g . , onset of action , time to peak effect ) of LEVEMIR and the mixed insulin may be altered in an unpredictable manner .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of insulin therapy , including LEVEMIR .
The risk of hypoglycemia increases with intensive glycemic control .
Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death .
Severe hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person or parenteral glucose infusion , or glucagon administration has been observed in clinical trials with insulin , including trials with LEVEMIR .
The timing of hypoglycemia usually reflects the time - action profile of the administered insulin formulations .
Other factors such as changes in food intake ( e . g . , amount of food or timing of meals ) , exercise , and concomitant medications may also alter the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The prolonged effect of subcutaneous LEVEMIR may delay recovery from hypoglycemia .
As with all insulins , use caution in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness and in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia ( e . g . , the pediatric population and patients who fast or have erratic food intake ) .
The patient ' s ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
This may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important , such as driving or operating other machinery .
Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced under certain conditions , such as longstanding diabetes , diabetic neuropathy , use of medications such as beta - blockers , or intensified glycemic control [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia ( and , possibly , loss of consciousness ) prior to the patient ’ s awareness of hypoglycemia .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including LEVEMIR .
5 . 5 Renal Impairment No difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of insulin detemir between non - diabetic individuals with renal impairment and healthy volunteers .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating insulin concentrations in patients with renal impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Non - diabetic individuals with severe hepatic impairment had lower systemic exposures to insulin detemir compared to healthy volunteers .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating insulin concentrations in patients with liver impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Drug Interactions Some medications may alter insulin requirements and subsequently increase the risk for hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity and allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Adverse reactions associated with LEVEMIR include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , rash and pruritus ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novo Nordisk Inc . at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying designs , the adverse reaction rates reported in one clinical trial may not be easily compared to those rates reported in another clinical trial , and may not reflect the rates actually observed in clinical practice .
The frequencies of adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) reported during LEVEMIR clinical trials in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus are listed in Tables 1 - 4 below .
See Tables 5 and 6 for the hypoglycemia findings .
Table 1 : Adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) in two pooled clinical trials of 16 weeks and 24 weeks duration in adults with type 1 diabetes ( adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 5 % ) LEVEMIR , % ( n = 767 ) NPH , % ( n = 388 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 26 . 1 21 . 4 Headache 22 . 6 22 . 7 Pharyngitis 9 . 5 8 . 0 Influenza - like illness 7 . 8 7 . 0 Abdominal Pain 6 . 0 2 . 6 Table 2 : Adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) in a 26 - week trial comparing insulin aspart + LEVEMIR to insulin aspart + insulin glargine in adults with type 1 diabetes ( adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 5 % ) LEVEMIR , % ( n = 161 ) Glargine , % ( n = 159 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 26 . 7 32 . 1 Headache 14 . 3 19 . 5 Back pain 8 . 1 6 . 3 Influenza - like illness 6 . 2 8 . 2 Gastroenteritis 5 . 6 4 . 4 Bronchitis 5 . 0 1 . 9 Table 3 : Adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) in two pooled clinical trials of 22 weeks and 24 weeks duration in adults with type 2 diabetes ( adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 5 % ) LEVEMIR , % ( n = 432 ) NPH , % ( n = 437 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 12 . 5 11 . 2 Headache 6 . 5 5 . 3 Table 4 : Adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia ) in a 26 - week clinical trial of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes ( adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 5 % ) LEVEMIR , % ( n = 232 ) NPH , % ( n = 115 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 35 . 8 42 . 6 Headache 31 . 0 32 . 2 Pharyngitis 17 . 2 20 . 9 Gastroenteritis 16 . 8 11 . 3 Influenza - like illness 13 . 8 20 . 9 Abdominal pain 13 . 4 13 . 0 Pyrexia 10 . 3 6 . 1 Cough 8 . 2 4 . 3 Viral infection 7 . 3 7 . 8 Nausea 6 . 5 7 . 0 Rhinitis 6 . 5 3 . 5 Vomiting 6 . 5 10 . 4 • Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including LEVEMIR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Tables 5 and 6 summarize the incidence of severe and non - severe hypoglycemia in the LEVEMIR clinical trials .
Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event with symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia requiring assistance of another person and associated with either a blood glucose below 50 mg / dL or prompt recovery after oral carbohydrate , intravenous glucose or glucagon administration .
Non - severe hypoglycemia was defined as an asymptomatic or symptomatic plasma glucose < 56 mg / dL ( < 50 mg / dL in Study A and C ) that was self - treated by the patient .
The rates of hypoglycemia in the LEVEMIR clinical trials ( see Section 14 for a description of the study designs ) were comparable between LEVEMIR - treated patients and non - LEVEMIR - treated patients ( see Tables 5 and 6 ) .
Table 5 : Hypoglycemia in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Study A Type 1 Diabetes Adults 16 weeks In combination with insulin aspart Study B Type 1 Diabetes Adults 26 weeks In combination with insulin aspart Study C Type 1 Diabetes Adults 24 weeks In combination with regular insulin Study D Type 1 Diabetes Pediatrics 26 weeks In combination with insulin aspart Twice - Daily LEVEMIR Twice - Daily NPH Twice - Daily LEVEMIR Once - Daily Glargine Once - Daily LEVEMIR Once - Daily NPH Once - or Twice Daily LEVEMIR Once - or Twice Daily NPH Severe hypoglycemia Percent of patients with at least 1 event ( n / total N ) 8 . 7 ( 24 / 276 ) 10 . 6 ( 14 / 132 ) 5 . 0 ( 8 / 161 ) 10 . 1 ( 16 / 159 ) 7 . 5 ( 37 / 491 ) 10 . 2 ( 26 / 256 ) 15 . 9 ( 37 / 232 ) 20 . 0 ( 23 / 115 ) Event / patient / year 0 . 52 0 . 43 0 . 13 0 . 31 0 . 35 0 . 32 0 . 91 0 . 99 Non - severe hypoglycemia Percent of patients ( n / total N ) 88 . 0 ( 243 / 276 ) 89 . 4 ( 118 / 132 ) 82 . 0 ( 132 / 161 ) 77 . 4 ( 123 / 159 ) 88 . 4 ( 434 / 491 ) 87 . 9 ( 225 / 256 ) 93 . 1 ( 216 / 232 ) 95 . 7 ( 110 / 115 ) Event / patient / year 26 . 4 37 . 5 20 . 2 21 . 8 31 . 1 33 . 4 31 . 6 37 . 0 Table 6 : Hypoglycemia in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Study E Type 2 Diabetes Adults 24 weeks In combination with oral agents Study F Type 2 Diabetes Adults 22 weeks In combination with insulin aspart Twice - Daily LEVEMIR Twice - Daily NPH Once - or Twice Daily LEVEMIR Once - or Twice Daily NPH Severe hypoglycemia Percent of patients with at least 1 event ( n / total N ) 0 . 4 ( 1 / 237 ) 2 . 5 ( 6 / 238 ) 1 . 5 ( 3 / 195 ) 4 . 0 ( 8 / 199 ) Event / patient / year 0 . 01 0 . 08 0 . 04 0 . 13 Non - severe hypoglycemia Percent of patients ( n / total N ) 40 . 5 ( 96 / 237 ) 64 . 3 ( 153 / 238 ) 32 . 3 ( 63 / 195 ) 32 . 2 ( 64 / 199 ) Event / patient / year 3 . 5 6 . 9 1 . 6 2 . 0 • Insulin Initiation and Intensification of Glucose Control Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
However , long - term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
• Lipodystrophy Long - term use of insulin , including LEVEMIR , can cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated insulin injections .
Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy ( thickening of adipose tissue ) and lipoatrophy ( thinning of adipose tissue ) , and may affect insulin adsorption .
Rotate insulin injection sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Weight Gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapy , including LEVEMIR , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
• Peripheral Edema Insulin , including LEVEMIR , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
• Allergic Reactions Local Allergy As with any insulin therapy , patients taking LEVEMIR may experience injection site reactions , including localized erythema , pain , pruritis , urticaria , edema , and inflammation .
In clinical studies in adults , three patients treated with LEVEMIR reported injection site pain ( 0 . 25 % ) compared to one patient treated with NPH insulin ( 0 . 12 % ) .
The reports of pain at the injection site did not result in discontinuation of therapy .
Rotation of the injection site within a given area from one injection to the next may help to reduce or prevent these reactions .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than insulin , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique .
Most minor reactions to insulin usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks .
Systemic Allergy Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , generalized skin reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , hypotension , and shock may occur with any insulin , including LEVEMIR , and may be life - threatening [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Antibody Production All insulin products can elicit the formation of insulin antibodies .
These insulin antibodies may increase or decrease the efficacy of insulin and may require adjustment of the insulin dose .
In phase 3 clinical trials of LEVEMIR , antibody development has been observed with no apparent impact on glycemic control .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of LEVEMIR .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Medication errors have been reported during post - approval use of LEVEMIR in which other insulins , particularly rapid - acting or short - acting insulins , have been accidentally administered instead of LEVEMIR [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
To avoid medication errors between LEVEMIR and other insulins , patients should be instructed always to verify the insulin label before each injection .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require insulin dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring .
The following are examples of medications that may increase the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulins including LEVEMIR and , therefore , increase the susceptibility to hypoglycemia : oral antidiabetic medications , pramlintide acetate , angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , propoxyphene , pentoxifylline , salicylates , somatostatin analogs , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
The following are examples of medications that may reduce the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulins including LEVEMIR : corticosteroids , niacin , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , albuterol , terbutaline ) , glucagon , isoniazid , phenothiazine derivatives , somatropin , thyroid hormones , estrogens , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors and atypical antipsychotic medications ( e . g . olanzapine and clozapine ) .
Beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and alcohol may either increase or decrease the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulin .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking anti - adrenergic drugs such as beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
• Certain drugs may affect glucose metabolism requiring insulin dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7 ) • The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking anti - adrenergic drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy category C : Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus ( 8 . 1 ) Pediatric : Has not been studied in children with type 2 diabetes .
Has not been studied in children with type 1 diabetes < 6 years of age ( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : In a fertility and embryonic development study , insulin detemir was administered to female rats before mating , during mating , and throughout pregnancy at doses up to 300 nmol / kg / day ( 3 times a human dose of 0 . 5 Units / kg / day , based on plasma area under the curve ( AUC ) ratio ) .
Doses of 150 and 300 nmol / kg / day produced numbers of litters with visceral anomalies .
Doses up to 900 nmol / kg / day ( approximately 135 times a human dose of 0 . 5 Units / kg / day based on AUC ratio ) were given to rabbits during organogenesis .
Drug - dose related increases in the incidence of fetuses with gallbladder abnormalities such as small , bilobed , bifurcated , and missing gallbladders were observed at a dose of 900 nmol / kg / day .
The rat and rabbit embryofetal development studies that included concurrent human insulin control groups indicated that insulin detemir and human insulin had similar effects regarding embryotoxicity and teratogenicity .
There are no well - controlled clinical studies of the use of LEVEMIR in pregnant women .
Patients should be advised to discuss with their healthcare provider if they intend to , or if they become , pregnant .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , LEVEMIR should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
It is essential for patients with diabetes or a history of gestational diabetes to maintain good metabolic control before conception and throughout pregnancy .
Insulin requirements may decrease during the first trimester , generally increase during the second and third trimesters , and rapidly decline after delivery .
Careful monitoring of glucose control is essential in these patients .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is unknown whether LEVEMIR is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs , including human insulin , are excreted in human milk , use caution when administering LEVEMIR to a nursing woman .
Use of LEVEMIR is compatible with breastfeeding , but women with diabetes who are lactating may require adjustments of their insulin doses .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The pharmacokinetics , safety and effectiveness of subcutaneous injections of LEVEMIR have been established in pediatric patients ( age 6 to 17 years ) with type 1 diabetes [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
LEVEMIR has not been studied in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age with type 1 diabetes .
LEVEMIR has not been studied in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes .
The dose recommendation when converting to LEVEMIR is the same as that described for adults [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
As in adults , the dosage of LEVEMIR must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and frequent monitoring of blood glucose .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In controlled clinical trials comparing LEVEMIR to NPH insulin or insulin glargine , 64 of 1624 patients ( 3 . 9 % ) in the type 1 diabetes trials and 309 of 1082 patients ( 28 . 6 % ) in the type 2 diabetes trials were ≥ 65 years of age .
A total of 52 ( 7 type 1 and 45 type 2 ) patients ( 1 . 9 % ) were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , but small sample sizes , particularly for patients ≥ 65 years of age in the type 1 diabetes trials and for patients ≥ 75 years of age in all trials limits conclusions .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In elderly patients with diabetes , the initial dosing , dose increments , and maintenance dosage should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemia .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly .
10 OVERDOSAGE An excess of insulin relative to food intake , energy expenditure , or both may lead to severe and sometimes prolonged and life - threatening hypoglycemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
After apparent clinical recovery from hypoglycemia , continued observation and additional carbohydrate intake may be necessary to avoid recurrence of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION LEVEMIR ( insulin detemir [ rDNA origin ] injection ) is a sterile solution of insulin detemir for use as a subcutaneous injection .
Insulin detemir is a long - acting ( up to 24 - hour duration of action ) recombinant human insulin analog .
LEVEMIR is produced by a process that includes expression of recombinant DNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae followed by chemical modification .
Insulin detemir differs from human insulin in that the amino acid threonine in position B30 has been omitted , and a C14 fatty acid chain has been attached to the amino acid B29 .
Insulin detemir has a molecular formula of C267H402O76N64S6 and a molecular weight of 5916 . 9 .
It has the following structure : Figure 1 : Structural Formula of insulin detemir [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEVEMIR is a clear , colorless , aqueous , neutral sterile solution .
Each milliliter of LEVEMIR contains 100 units ( 14 . 2 mg / mL ) insulin detemir , 65 . 4 mcg zinc , 2 . 06 mg m - cresol , 16 . 0 mg glycerol , 1 . 80 mg phenol , 0 . 89 mg disodium phosphate dihydrate , 1 . 17 mg sodium chloride , and water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . LEVEMIR has a pH of approximately 7 . 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin detemir is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins , including insulin detemir , exert their specific action through binding to insulin receptors .
Receptor - bound insulin lowers blood glucose by facilitating cellular uptake of glucose into skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and by inhibiting the output of glucose from the liver .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis in the adipocyte , inhibits proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Insulin detemir is a soluble , long - acting basal human insulin analog with up to a 24 - hour duration of action .
The pharmacodynamic profile of LEVEMIR is relatively constant with no pronounced peak .
The duration of action of LEVEMIR is mediated by slowed systemic absorption of insulin detemir molecules from the injection site due to self - association of the drug molecules .
In addition , the distribution of insulin detemir to peripheral target tissues is slowed because of binding to albumin .
Figure 2 shows results from a study in patients with type 1 diabetes conducted for a maximum of 24 hours after the subcutaneous injection of LEVEMIR or NPH insulin .
The mean time between injection and the end of pharmacological effect for insulin detemir ranged from 7 . 6 hours to > 24 hours ( 24 hours was the end of the observation period ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For doses in the interval of 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 Units / kg , insulin detemir exerts more than 50 % of its maximum effect from 3 to 4 hours up to approximately 14 hours after dose administration .
Figure 3 shows glucose infusion rate results from a 16 - hour glucose clamp study in patients with type 2 diabetes .
The clamp study was terminated at 16 hours according to protocol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability After subcutaneous injection of LEVEMIR in healthy subjects and in patients with diabetes , insulin detemir serum concentrations had a relatively constant concentration / time profile over 24 hours with the maximum serum concentration ( Cmax ) reached between 6 - 8 hours post - dose .
Insulin detemir was more slowly absorbed after subcutaneous administration to the thigh where AUC0 - 5 h was 30 - 40 % lower and AUC0 - inf was 10 % lower than the corresponding AUCs with subcutaneous injections to the deltoid and abdominal regions .
The absolute bioavailability of insulin detemir is approximately 60 % .
Distribution and Elimination More than 98 % of insulin detemir in the bloodstream is bound to albumin .
The results of in vitro and in vivo protein binding studies demonstrate that there is no clinically relevant interaction between insulin detemir and fatty acids or other protein - bound drugs .
Insulin detemir has an apparent volume of distribution of approximately 0 . 1 L / kg .
After subcutaneous administration in patients with type 1 diabetes , insulin detemir has a terminal half - life of 5 to 7 hours depending on dose .
Specific Populations Children and Adolescents - The pharmacokinetic properties of LEVEMIR were investigated in children ( 6 - 12 years ) , adolescents ( 13 - 17 years ) , and adults with type 1 diabetes .
In children , the insulin detemir plasma area under the curve ( AUC ) and Cmax were increased by 10 % and 24 % , respectively , as compared to adults .
There was no difference in pharmacokinetics between adolescents and adults .
Geriatrics - In a clinical trial investigating differences in pharmacokinetics of a single subcutaneous dose of LEVEMIR in young ( 20 to 35 years ) versus elderly ( ≥ 68 years ) healthy subjects , the insulin detemir AUC was up to 35 % higher among the elderly subjects due to reduced clearance .
As with other insulin preparations , LEVEMIRshould always be titrated according to individual requirements .
Gender - No clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters of LEVEMIR are observed between males and females .
Race - In two clinical pharmacology studies conducted in healthy Japanese and Caucasian subjects , there were no clinically relevant differences seen in pharmacokinetic parameters .
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR were investigated in a clamp study comparing patients with type 2 diabetes of Caucasian , African - American , and Latino origin .
Dose - response relationships for LEVEMIR were comparable in these three populations .
Renal impairment - A single subcutaneous dose of 0 . 2 Units / kg ( 1 . 2 nmol / kg ) of LEVEMIR was administered to healthy subjects and those with varying degrees of renal impairment ( mild , moderate , severe , and hemodialysis - dependent ) .
In this study , there were no differences in the pharmacokinetics of LEVEMIR between healthy subjects and those with renal impairment .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with renal impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatic impairment - A single subcutaneous dose of 0 . 2 Units / kg ( 1 . 2 nmol / kg ) of LEVEMIR was administered to healthy subjects and those with varying degrees of hepatic impairment ( mild , moderate and severe ) .
LEVEMIR exposure as estimated by AUC decreased with increasing degrees of hepatic impairment with a corresponding increase in apparent clearance .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with liver impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Pregnancy - The effect of pregnancy on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR has not been studied [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Smoking - The effect of smoking on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR has not been studied .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
Insulin detemir tested negative for genotoxic potential in the in vitro reverse mutation study in bacteria , human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
In a fertility and embryonic development study , insulin detemir was administered to female rats before mating , during mating , and throughout pregnancy at doses up to 300 nmol / kg / day ( 3 times a human dose of 0 . 5 Units / kg / day , based on plasma AUC ratio ) .
There were no effects on fertility in the rat .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of LEVEMIR given once - daily at bedtime or twice - daily ( before breakfast and at bedtime , before breakfast and with the evening meal , or at 12 - hour intervals ) was compared to that of once - daily or twice - daily NPH insulin in open - label , randomized , parallel studies of 1155 adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus , 347 pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus , and 869 adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
The efficacy and safety of LEVEMIR given twice - daily was compared to once - daily insulin glargine in an open - label , randomized , parallel study of 320 patients with type 1 diabetes .
The evening LEVEMIR dose was titrated in all trials according to pre - defined targets for fasting blood glucose .
The pre - dinner blood glucose was used to titrate the morning LEVEMIR dose in those trials that also administered LEVEMIR in the morning .
In general , the reduction in glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) with LEVEMIR was similar to that with NPH insulin or insulin glargine .
Type 1 Diabetes – Adult In a 16 - week open - label clinical study ( Study A , n = 409 ) , adults with type 1 diabetes were randomized to treatment with either LEVEMIR at 12 - hour intervals , LEVEMIR administered in the morning and bedtime or NPH insulin administered in the morning and bedtime .
Insulin aspart was also administered before each meal .
At 16 weeks of treatment , the combined LEVEMIR - treated patients had similar HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) reductions compared to the NPH - treated patients ( Table 7 ) .
Differences in timing of LEVEMIR administration had no effect on HbA1c , fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , or body weight .
In a 26 - week , open - label clinical study ( Study B , n = 320 ) , adults with type 1 diabetes were randomized to twice - daily LEVEMIR ( administered in the morning and bedtime ) or once - daily insulin glargine ( administered at bedtime ) .
Insulin aspart was administered before each meal .
LEVEMIR - treated patients had a decrease in HbA1c similar to that of insulin glargine - treated patients .
In a 24 - week , non - blinded clinical study ( Study C , n = 749 ) , adults with type 1 diabetes were randomized to once - daily LEVEMIR or once - daily NPH insulin , both administered at bedtime and in combination with regular human insulin before each meal .
LEVEMIR and NPH insulin had a similar effect on HbA1c .
Table 7 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Adult Study A Study B Study C Treatment duration 16 weeks 26 weeks 24 weeks Treatment in combination with NovoLog ® ( insulin aspart ) NovoLog ® ( insulin aspart ) Human Soluble Insulin ( regular insulin ) Twice - daily LEVEMIR Twice - daily NPH Twice - daily LEVEMIR Once - daily insulin glargine Once - daily LEVEMIR Once - daily NPH Number of patients treated 276 133 161 159 492 257 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline HbA1c 8 . 6 8 . 5 8 . 9 8 . 8 8 . 4 8 . 3 Adj . mean change from baseline - 0 . 8 - 0 . 7 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 5 - 0 . 1 0 . 0 LEVEMIR – NPH 95 % CI for Treatment difference - 0 . 2 ( - 0 . 3 , - 0 . 0 ) - 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 2 , 0 . 2 ) - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 0 ) Basal insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean 21 24 27 23 12 24 Mean change from baseline 16 10 10 4 9 2 Total insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean 48 54 56 51 46 57 Mean change from baseline 17 10 9 6 11 3 Fasting blood glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline mean 209 220 153 150 213 206 Adj . mean change from baseline - 44 - 9 - 38 - 41 - 30 - 9 Body weight ( kg ) Baseline mean 74 . 6 75 . 5 77 . 5 75 . 1 76 . 5 76 . 9 Mean change from baseline 0 . 2 0 . 8 0 . 5 1 . 0 - 0 . 3 0 . 3 Baseline values were included as covariates in an ANCOVA analysis .
Type 1 Diabetes – Pediatric In an open - label clinical study ( Study D , n = 347 ) , pediatric patients ( age range 6 to 17 ) with type 1 diabetes were randomized to 26 weeks of treatment with LEVEMIR or NPH insulin both of which were administered either once - or twice - daily ( bedtime or morning and bedtime ) , at a dosing frequency consistent with the number of daily basal insulin injections a patient was taking prior to trial entry .
Insulin aspart was administered before each meal .
LEVEMIR - treated patients had a decrease in HbA1c similar to that of NPH insulin ( Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Pediatric Study D Treatment duration 26 weeks Treatment in combination with NovoLog ® ( insulin aspart ) Once - or Twice Daily LEVEMIR Once - or Twice Daily NPH Number of subjects treated 232 115 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline HbA1c 8 . 8 8 . 8 Adj . mean change from baseline - 0 . 7 - 0 . 8 LEVEMIR – NPH 95 % CI for Treatment difference 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 ) Basal insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean 24 26 Mean change from baseline 8 6 Total insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean 48 50 Mean change from baseline 9 7 Fasting blood glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline mean 181 181 Adj . mean change from baseline - 39 - 21 Body weight ( kg ) Baseline mean 46 . 3 46 . 2 Mean change from baseline 1 . 6 2 . 7 Type 2 Diabetes – Adult In a 24 - week , open - label , randomized , clinical study ( Study E , n = 476 ) , LEVEMIR administered twice - daily ( before breakfast and evening ) was compared to NPH insulin administered twice - daily ( before breakfast and evening ) as part of a regimen of stable combination therapy with one or two of the following oral antidiabetic medications : metformin , an insulin secretagogue , or an alpha – glucosidase inhibitor .
All patients were insulin - naïve at the time of randomization .
LEVEMIR and NPH insulin similarly lowered HbA1c from baseline ( Table 9 ) .
In a 22 - week , open - label , randomized , clinical study ( Study F , n = 395 ) in adults with type 2 diabetes , LEVEMIR and NPH insulin were given once - or twice - daily as part of a basal - bolus regimen with insulin aspart .
As measured by HbA1c or FPG , LEVEMIR had efficacy similar to that of NPH insulin .
Table 9 : Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus – Adult Study E Study F Treatment duration 24 weeks 22 weeks Treatment in combination with oral agents insulin aspart Twice - daily LEVEMIR Twice - daily NPH Once - or Twice Daily LEVEMIR Once - or Twice Daily NPH Number of subjects treated 237 239 195 200 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline HbA1c 8 . 6 8 . 5 8 . 2 8 . 1 Adj . mean change from baseline - 2 . 0 - 2 . 1 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 6 LEVEMIR – NPH 95 % CI for Treatment difference 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 0 , 0 . 3 ) - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 2 , 0 . 1 ) Basal insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean 18 17 22 22 Mean change from baseline 48 28 26 15 Total insulin dose ( units / day ) Baseline mean - - 22 22 Mean change from baseline - - 57 42 Fasting blood glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline mean 179 173 - - Adj . mean change from baseline - 69 - 74 - - Body weight ( kg ) Baseline mean 82 . 7 82 . 5 82 . 0 79 . 6 Mean change from baseline 1 . 2 2 . 7 0 . 5 1 . 2 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied LEVEMIR is available in the following package sizes : each presentation containing 100 Units of insulin detemir per mL ( U - 100 ) .
3 mL LEVEMIR FlexPen ® NDC 54868 - 5883 - 0 FlexPen is for use with NovoFine ® disposable needles .
Each FlexPen is for use by a single patient .
LEVEMIR FlexPen should never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
16 . 2 Storage Unused ( unopened ) LEVEMIR should be stored in the refrigerator between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Do not store in the freezer or directly adjacent to the refrigerator cooling element .
Do not freeze .
Do not use LEVEMIR if it has been frozen .
Unused ( unopened ) LEVEMIR can be kept until the expiration date printed on the label if it is stored in a refrigerator .
Keep unused LEVEMIR in the carton so that it stays clean and protected from light .
If refrigeration is not possible , unused ( unopened ) LEVEMIR can be kept unrefrigerated at room temperature , below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) as long as it is kept as cool as possible and away from direct heat and light .
Unrefrigerated LEVEMIR should be discarded 42 days after it is first kept out of the refrigerator , even if the FlexPen or vial still contains insulin .
Vials : After initial use , vials should be stored in a refrigerator , never in a freezer .
If refrigeration is not possible , the in - use vial can be kept unrefrigerated at room temperature , below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) as long as it is kept as cool as possible and away from direct heat and light .
Refrigerated LEVEMIR vials should be discarded 42 days after initial use .
Unrefrigerated LEVEMIR vials should be discarded 42 days after they are first kept out of the refrigerator .
LEVEMIR FlexPen : After initial use , the LEVEMIR FlexPen must NOT be stored in a refrigerator and must NOT be stored with the needle in place .
Keep the opened ( in use ) LEVEMIR FlexPen away from direct heat and light at room temperature , below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Unrefrigerated LEVEMIR FlexPens should be discarded 42 days after they are first kept out of the refrigerator .
The storage conditions are summarized in Table 10 : Table 10 : Storage Conditions for LEVEMIR FlexPen and vial Not in - use ( unopened ) Refrigerated Not in - use ( unopened ) Room Temperature ( below 30 ° C ) In - use ( opened ) 3 mL LEVEMIR FlexPen Until expiration date 42 days [ 1 ] 42 days null Room Temperature ( below 30 ° C ) ( Do not refrigerate ) 10 mL vial Until expiration date 42 days null 42 days null Refrigerated or Room Temperature ( below 30 ° C ) [ 1 ] The total time allowed at room temperature ( below 30 ° C ) is 42 days regardless of whether the product is in - use or not in - use .
16 . 3 Preparation and Handling Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
LEVEMIR should be inspected visually prior to administration and should only be used if the solution appears clear and colorless .
Mixing and diluting : LEVEMIR must NOT be mixed or diluted with any other insulin or solution [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) 17 . 1 Instructions for Patients Patients should be informed that changes to insulin regimens must be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Patients should be informed about the potential side effects of insulin therapy , including hypoglycemia , weight gain , lipodystrophy ( and the need to rotate injection sites within the same body region ) , and allergic reactions .
Patients should be informed that the ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
This may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important , such as driving or operating other machinery .
Patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
Accidental mix - ups between LEVEMIR and other insulins , particularly short - acting insulins , have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between LEVEMIR and other insulins , patients should be instructed to always check the insulin label before each injection .
LEVEMIR must only be used if the solution is clear and colorless with no particles visible .
Patients must be advised that LEVEMIR must NOT be diluted or mixed with any other insulin or solution .
Patients should be instructed on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia .
Patients should be instructed on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Patients with diabetes should be advised to inform their healthcare professional if they are pregnant or are contemplating pregnancy .
Refer patients to the LEVEMIR " Patient Information " for additional information .
17 . 2 Never Share a LEVEMIR FlexPen Between Patients Counsel patients that they should never share a LEVEMIR FlexPen with another person , even if the needle is changed .
Sharing of the FlexPen between patients may pose a risk of transmission of infection .
Novo Nordisk ® , Levemir ® , NovoLog ® , FlexPen ® , and NovoFine ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
LEVEMIR is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 , 5 , 866 , 538 , 6 , 011 , 007 , 6 , 869 , 930 and other patents pending .
FlexPen is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 582 , 404 , 6 , 004 , 297 , 6 , 235 , 400 and other patents pending .
© 2005 - 2012 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about LEVEMIR contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West Princeton , NJ 08540 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 www . novonordisk - us . com Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 Patient Information LEVEMIR ® ( LEV – uh - mere ) ( insulin detemir [ rDNA origin ] injection ) solution for subcutaneous injection Read the Patient Information that comes with LEVEMIR ® before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure that you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider , if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
What is LEVEMIR ?
LEVEMIR is a man - made long - acting insulin , that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
It is not recommended to use LEVEMIR to treat diabetic ketoacidosis .
Who should not use LEVEMIR ?
Do not take LEVEMIR if : • you are allergic to any of the ingredients in LEVEMIR .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in LEVEMIR .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking LEVEMIR ?
Before you take LEVEMIR , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have liver or kidney problems • have any other medical conditions .
Some medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of LEVEMIR .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known , if LEVEMIR would harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider , if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if LEVEMIR passes into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take LEVEMIR while you breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
LEVEMIR may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how LEVEMIR works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take LEVEMIR ?
• Take LEVEMIR exactly as your healthcare provider told you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much LEVEMIR to take and when to take it .
• Do not make any changes to your dose or type of insulin unless you are told to do so by your healthcare provider .
Know your insulin .
Make sure you know : • the type and strength of insulin prescribed for you .
• the amount of insulin you take .
• the best time for you to take your insulin .
This may change if you take a different type of insulin .
• Do not dilute or mix LEVEMIR with any other insulin or solution .
Your LEVEMIR will not work the right way and you may lose blood sugar control , which can be serious .
• Do not use LEVEMIR in an insulin pump .
• Inject LEVEMIR under your skin ( subcutaneously ) in your upper arm , abdomen ( stomach area ) , or thigh .
Never inject LEVEMIR into a vein or muscle .
• Change injection sites within the area you choose with each dose .
Do not inject into the exact same spot for each injection .
• Read the instructions for use that comes with your LEVEMIR .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject LEVEMIR before you start taking it .
• Your healthcare provider will decide which type of LEVEMIR to prescribe for you . LEVEMIR comes in : • 10 mL vials ( small bottles ) for use with a syringe • 3 mL LEVEMIR FlexPen ® Ask your healthcare provider how you should use LEVEMIR .
• If you take too much LEVEMIR , your blood sugar may fall low ( hypoglycemia ) .
You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and you could pass out ( lose consciousness ) .
If you pass out you will need help from another person or emergency medical services right away .
See “ What are the possible side effects of LEVEMIR ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• If you forget to take your dose of LEVEMIR , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar , which may include : • • increased thirst • frequent urination • drowsiness • loss of appetite • a hard time breathing • fruity smell on the breath • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain • Do not share needles , insulin pens or syringes with others .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • • illness • stress • other medicines you take • change in diet • change in physical activity or exercise What should I avoid while taking LEVEMIR ?
• Alcohol .
Drinking alcohol may affect your blood sugar when you take LEVEMIR .
• Driving and operating machinery .
You may have trouble paying attention or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright for you to drive if you often have : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar What are the possible side effects of LEVEMIR ?
LEVEMIR can cause serious side effects , including : • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • dizziness or lightheadedness • shakiness • hunger • fast heart beat • tingling in your hands , feet , lips or tongue • trouble concentrating or confusion • blurred vision • slurred speech • anxiety or mood changes • headache • sweating Very low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can cause loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , and death .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to tell if you have low blood sugar and what to do if this happens while taking LEVEMIR .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
Your dose of LEVEMIR may need to be changed .
• Skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
Change ( rotate ) the area where you inject your insulin to help prevent these skin changes from happening .
Do not inject insulin into areas of skin that have thickening or pits .
• Serious allergic reactions .
LEVEMIR can cause life threatening symptoms .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction : • a rash all over your body • itching • shortness of breath • trouble breathing ( wheezing ) • fast heartbeat • sweating • feel faint Common side effects of LEVEMIR include : • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
See “ What are the possible side effects of LEVEMIR ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
• Weight gain .
This can occur with any insulin therapy .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how LEVEMIR can affect your weight .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects from LEVEMIR .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store LEVEMIR ?
Unopened LEVEMIR : • Keep all unopened LEVEMIR in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Unopened LEVEMIR can be kept until the expiration date on the label if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
• If refrigeration is not possible , you can keep the unopened LEVEMIR at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Throw away LEVEMIR 42 days after it is first kept out of the refrigerator .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use LEVEMIR if it has been frozen .
• Keep unopened LEVEMIR in the carton to protect it from light .
LEVEMIR in use : • Vials • Keep opened vials of LEVEMIR in the refrigerator or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) away from direct heat or light .
• Throw away a vial that has always been kept in the refrigerator after 42 days of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• Throw away a vial that has been kept at room temperature 42 days after it is first kept out of the refrigerator , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• LEVEMIR FlexPen • Keep at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 42 days .
• Do not store a LEVEMIR FlexPen that you are using in the refrigerator .
• Do not store LEVEMIR with the needle attached .
• Keep LEVEMIR FlexPen away from direct heat or light .
• Throw away used LEVEMIR FlexPens after 42 days , even if there is insulin left in them .
Keep LEVEMIR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about LEVEMIR Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use LEVEMIR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give LEVEMIR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about LEVEMIR .
If you would like more information about LEVEMIR or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about LEVEMIR that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about LEVEMIR , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or go to www . novonordisk - us . com .
What are the ingredients in LEVEMIR ?
Active Ingredient : Insulin detemir Inactive Ingredients : zinc , m - cresol , glycerol , phenol , disodium phosphate dehydrate , sodium chloride and water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide may be added .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : January 2012 Novo Nordisk ® , LEVEMIR ® , and FlexPen ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
LEVEMIR ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 , 5 , 866 , 538 , 6 , 011 , 007 , 6 , 869 , 930 and other patents pending .
FlexPen ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 582 , 404 , 6 , 004 , 297 , 6 , 235 , 004 and other patents pending .
© 2005 - 2012 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about LEVEMIR ® contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West Princeton , New Jersey 08540 www . novonordisk - us . com 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 Patient Instructions For Use LEVEMIR ® 10 mL vial Please read the following Instructions for use carefully before using your LEVEMIR ® 10 mL vial and each time you get a refill .
You should read the instructions in this manual even if you have used an insulin 10 mL vial before .
How should I use the LEVEMIR 10 mL vial ?
Using the 10 mL vial : • 1 .
Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use different types of insulin .
• 2 .
Look at the vial and the insulin .
The LEVEMIR insulin should be clear and colorless .
The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap has been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the insulin is cloudy or colored , Do not use the insulin and return it to your pharmacy .
• 3 .
Wash your hands with soap and water .
• 4 .
If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
Before each use , wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol wipe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Do not roll or shake the vial .
Shaking the vial right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or foam .
This can cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
The insulin should be used only if it is clear and colorless .
• 6 .
Pull back the plunger on your syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Push the needle through the rubber stopper into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 .
Push the plunger all the way in .
This inserts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 9 .
Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose that you need .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 10 .
If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top of the needle .
Then slowly push the plunger to the correct unit marking for your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 11 .
Check to make sure you have the right dose of LEVEMIR in the syringe .
• 12 .
Pull the syringe out of the vial • 13 .
Inject your LEVEMIR right away as instructed by your healthcare provider .
How should I inject LEVEMIR with a syringe ?
If you clean your injection site with an alcohol swab , let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
• 1 .
Pinch your skin between two fingers , push the needle into the skinfold , using a dart - like motion and push the plunger to inject the insulin under your skin .
The needle will be straight in .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Keep the needle under your skin for at least 6 seconds to make sure you have injected all the insulin .
After you pull the needle from your skin you may see a drop of Levemir at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
3 .
If blood appears after you pull the needle from your skin , press the injection site lightly with an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• 4 .
After each injection , remove the needlewithout recapping and dispose of it in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , and lancets should be placed in sharps containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
Revised : January 2012 Novo Nordisk ® and LEVEMIR ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
LEVEMIR ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 , 5 , 866 , 538 , 6 , 011 , 007 , 6 , 869 , 930 , and other patents pending .
© 2005 - 2012 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about LEVEMIR ® contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West , Princeton , New Jersey 08540 Instructions For Use LEVEMIR ® FlexPen ® Please carefully read the following Instructions for use before using your LEVEMIR ® FlexPen ® and each time you get a refill .
You should read the instructions in this manual even if you have used a LEVEMIR FlexPen before .
LEVEMIR FlexPen is a disposable dial - a - dose insulin pen .
You can select doses from 1 to 60 units in increments of 1 unit .
LEVEMIR FlexPen is designed to be used with NovoFine ® needles .
• Δ LEVEMIR FlexPen should not be used by people who are blind or have severe eyesight problems without the help of a person who has good eyesight and who is trained to use the LEVEMIR FlexPen the right way .
Getting ready Make sure you have the following items : • LEVEMIR FlexPen • NovoFine disposable needles • Alcohol swab [ MULTIMEDIA ] PREPARING YOUR LEVEMIR FLEXPEN Wash your hands with soap and water .
Before you start to prepare your injection , check the label to make sure that you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you take more than 1 type of insulin .
LEVEMIR should look clear and colorless .
A . Pull off the pen cap ( see diagram A ) .
Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Attaching the needle Remove the protective tab from a new disposable needle .
Attach the needle tightly onto your FlexPen .
It is important that the needle is put on straight ( see diagram B ) .
Never place a disposable needle on your LEVEMIR FlexPen until you are ready to give your injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C . Pull off the big outer needle cap ( see diagram C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] D . Pull off the inner needle cap and throw it away ( see diagram D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Δ Always use a new needle for each injection to cut down the chance of infection and to prevent blocked needles .
• Δ Be careful not to bend or damage the needle before use .
• Δ To reduce the risk of needle sticks , never put the inner needle cap back on the needle .
Giving the airshot before each injection Before each injection , small amounts of air may collect in the cartridge during normal use .
To avoid injecting air and to ensure you take the right dose of insulin : E . Turn the dose selector to select 2 units ( see diagram E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] F . Hold your LEVEMIR FlexPen with the needle pointing up .
Tap the cartridge gently with your finger a few times to make any air bubbles collect at the top of the cartridge ( see diagram F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] G .
While you keep the needle pointing upwards , press the push - button all the way in ( see diagram G ) .
The dose selector returns to 0 .
A drop of insulin should appear at the needle tip .
If not , change the needle and repeat the procedure no more than 6 times .
If you do not see a drop of insulin after 6 times , do not use the LEVEMIR FlexPen and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
A small air bubble may remain at the needle tip , but it will not be injected .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SELECTING YOUR DOSE Check and make sure that the dose selector is set at 0 .
H . Turn the dose selector to the number of units you need to inject .
The pointer should line up with your dose .
The dose can be corrected either up or down by turning the dose selector in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the pointer ( see diagram H ) .
When turning the dose selector , be careful not to press the push - button as insulin will come out .
You cannot select a dose larger than the number of units left in the cartridge .
You will hear a click for every single unit dialed .
Do not set the dose by counting the number of clicks you hear .
Δ Do not use the cartridge scale printed on the cartridge to measure your dose of insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] GIVING THE INJECTION Do the injection exactly as shown to you by your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before injecting .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab and let the area dry .
I . Insert the needle into your skin .
Inject the dose by pressing the push - button all the way in until the 0 lines up with the pointer ( see diagram I ) .
Be careful only to push the button after the needle is in the skin .
Turning the dose selector will not inject insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] J . Keep the needle in the skin for at least 6 seconds , and keep the push - button pressed all the way in until the needle has been pulled out from the skin ( see diagram J ) .
This will make sure that the full dose has been given .
You may see a drop of LEVEMIR at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If blood appears after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After the injection Carefully remove the needle from the pen after each injection .
This helps to prevent infection and leakage of insulin .
You can carefully recap the needle with the bigger outer cap to help make it easier to remove the needle .
• Δ Do not recap the needle with the small inner cap .
Recapping with this small part can increase your chances of having a needle stick injury .
• Δ Put the needle in a sharps container or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw top such as a detergent bottle or empty coffee can .
These containers should be sealed and thrown away the right way .
Check with your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be local or state laws about how to throw away used needles and syringes .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycling bins .
K . Put the pen cap on the LEVEMIR FlexPen and store the LEVEMIR FlexPen without the needle attached ( see diagram K ) .
The LEVEMIR FlexPen prevents the cartridge from being completely emptied .
It can deliver 300 units then you should throw it away in a sharps container or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw top , such as a detergent bottle or empty coffee can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] FUNCTION CHECK L .
If your LEVEMIR FlexPen is not working the right way , follow the steps below : • Attach a new NovoFine needle .
• Remove the big outer needle cap and the inner needle cap .
• Do an airshot as described in “ Giving the airshot before each injection ” ( see diagram E through G ) .
• Put the big outer needle cap onto the needle .
Do not put on the inner needle cap .
• Turn the dose selector so the dose indicator window shows 20 units .
• Hold the LEVEMIR FlexPen so the needle is pointing down .
• Press the push - button all the way in .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The insulin should fill the lower part of the big outer needle cap to the marker ( see diagram L ) .
If LEVEMIR FlexPen has released too much or too little insulin , do the function check again .
If the same problem happens again , do not use your LEVEMIR FlexPen and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
Maintenance Your FlexPen is designed to work accurately and safely .
It must be handled with care .
If you drop your FlexPen it could get damaged .
If you are concerned that your FlexPen is damaged , use a new one .
You can clean the outside of your FlexPen by wiping it with a damp cloth .
Do not soak or wash your FlexPen .
Soaking or washing the FlexPen could damage it .
Do not refill your FlexPen .
• Δ Remove the needle from the LEVEMIR FlexPen after each injection .
This helps to cut down your chance of infection , prevent leakage of insulin .
Be careful when handling used needles to avoid needle sticks and transfer of infections .
• Δ Keep your LEVEMIR FlexPen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Δ Use LEVEMIR FlexPen as directed to treat your diabetes .
Needles and LEVEMIR FlexPen must not be shared .
• Δ Always use a new needle for each injection .
• Δ Novo Nordisk is not responsible for harm due to using this insulin pen with products not recommended by Novo Nordisk .
• Δ As a safety measure , always carry a spare insulin delivery device in case your LEVEMIR FlexPen is lost or damaged .
• Δ Remember to keep the disposable LEVEMIR FlexPen with you .
Do not leave it in a car or other location where it can get too hot or too cold .
Revised : January 2012 Novo Nordisk ® , LEVEMIR ® , FlexPen ® , NovoPen ® , and NovoFine ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
LEVEMIR ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 , 5 , 866 , 538 , 6 , 011 , 007 , 6 , 869 , 930 , and other patents pending .
FlexPen ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 582 , 404 , 6 , 004 , 297 , 6 , 235 , 004 , and other patents pending .
© 2005 - 2012 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about LEVEMIR ® contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West , Princeton , New Jersey 08540 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 3 mL FlexPen NDC 54868 - 5883 - 0 List 643910 Levemir ® FlexPen ® Insulin detemir ( rDNA origin ) injection 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) 5x3 mL Prefilled Pens For subcutaneous use only Rx Only Single Patient use only For use with NovoFine ® disposable needles .
Keep in a cold place .
Store at 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
