Drug Facts Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / w ( without propellant ) Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for women Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( see pictures on side of this carton ) Warnings For external use only .
Extremely Flammable Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton because this product may not work for you • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • your hair loss is associated with childbirth • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 3 months with once - daily use .
For some women , you may need to use this product once a day for at least 6 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all women .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 6 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • see enclosed leaflet for complete directions on how to use • apply half a capful once daily directly to the scalp in the hair loss area • massage into scalp with fingers , then wash hands well • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , dehydrated alcohol , isobutane , lactic acid , n - butane , polysorbate 60 , propane , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
• Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Can Package * Compare to the active ingredient of Women ' s Rogaine ® NDC 51672 - 2129 - 4 Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( For Women ) HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT REACTIVATES HAIR FOLLICLES TO STIMULATE REGROWTH CLINICALLY PROVEN TO REGROW HAIR Once - a - Day Foam for Women UNSCENTED # 1 DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED ACTIVE INGREDIENT † Two Month Supply One 60 g ( 2 . 11 oz ) Can [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
