DESCRIPTION Luvira is an orally administered prescription omega - 3 - acid dietary supplement formulation for the clinical dietary management of suboptimal nutritional status in patients where advanced supplementation is required and nutritional supplementation in physiologically stressful conditions for maintenance of good health is needed .
Luvira should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
SUPPLEMENT FACTS Serving Size : 1 Capsule Servings Per Container : 90 Amount Per Serving % Daily Value Total Omega - 3 - Acid 1220 mg * Eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) 465 mg Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) 375 mg * Daily values not established Other Ingredients : Gelatin ( bovine ) , glycerin , de - ionized water .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Luvira is an orally administered prescription omega - 3 - acid formulation for the clinical dietary management of suboptimal nutritional status in patients where advanced supplementation is required and nutritional supplementation in physiologically stressful conditions for maintenance of good health is needed .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS : This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Luvira should only be used under the direction and supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Use with caution in patients that may have a medical condition , are pregnant , lactating , trying to conceive , under the age of 18 , or taking medications .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of Luvira is 3 - 4 capsules per day .
The daily dose may be taken as a single dose of 3 - 4 capsules or 1 – 2 capsules twice daily with or without food .
HOW SUPPLIED Luvira is supplied as clear yellowish Softgel capsule dispensed in white HDPE plastic bottles of 90 ct .
69336 - 349 - 90 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Keep in cool dry place .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
Manufactured for : Sterling - Knight Pharmaceuticals , LLC Ripley , MS 38663 Item 34990 Rev . 0620 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
