Active Ingredient Alcohol 3 . 97 % Chloroxylenol 0 . 2 % Purpose Antiseptic Use [ s ] Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings 1 ) General - If medical measures are required , please show the product container or labeling .
- When irritated due to exposure to the product , please visit a medical institution or doctor .
- When directly exposed to the product , wash the exposed body parts or remove the exposed piece of the product .
2 ) Oral exposure - If for some reason you eat or swallow the product , immediately take emergency measures and consult with a doctor .
3 ) Dermal and eye exposure - In the case of coming into contact with your skin , wash with plenty of water and soap .
- Immediately wash out if the product comes into contact with your eyes .
- Wash out with clean water if the product comes into contact with your eyes or skin and consult with a doctor .
4 ) Inhalation exposure - If you experience difficulty in breathing after inhaling the product , move to an area with fresh air and take a relax in a posture to perform comfortable breathing .
When using this product in a sealed room , make sure to ventilate the space .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions 1 .
Remove one sheet and use it where sterilization and cleaning are required .
2 .
Adjust the number of uses according to the contamination range .
Other information Store away from direct sunlight and keep in a cool space .
Do not reuse the wipes .
Inactive ingredients Water , Rayon , Polyester , Glycerin , Dipropylene Glycol , Hydroxyacetophenone , Hexyldecanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Polyglyceryl - 10 Stearate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
