DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : ● eczema ● seborrheic dermatitis ● psoriasis ● insect bites ● poison ivy , oak , sumac ● soaps ● detergents ● cosmetics ● jewelry ● external feminine genital and anal itching Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not Use : For the treatment of a diaper rash , consult with doctor For external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge , consult doctor When using this product • Avoid Contact with the eyes • Do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • For external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use and consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any medicated device or applicator .
Stop using this product and ask a doctor if • conditions worsen • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor .
For External and anal itching : Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
Children : under 12 years of age with external anal itching : consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Cetyl alcohol , Edetate disodium , Glyceryl monostearate , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Petrolatum , Sorbitan monostearate Other information ● store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Distributed by : CDMA , Inc .
43157 W 9 Mile Rd .
Novi , MI .
48375 www . qualitychoice . com Product of PRC Questions : 800 - 935 - 2362 This product is not manufactured or distrubuted by Valeant Pharamceuticals North America , Inc . distributor of Cotaid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
