Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to • insect bites • eczema • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine genital and anal itching • Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For External Use Only Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
For external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor • Conditions worsen • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe Vera ( Aloe Barbadensis ) leaf juice , Cetostearyl alcohol , Edatate Disodium , Glyceryl monostearate , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , White Petrolatum , Propylene glycol , Purified Water , Sorbitan Monostearate , Polysorbate 60 When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In the case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Directions Adults and children 2 years and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • do not use , consult doctor For external and anal itching • adults when practical cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• Children under 12 years of age with external anal ithcing consult a doctor .
Distributed By Distributed By CDMA Inc .
43157 W 9 Mile Rd .
Novi , MI .
48375 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 800 - 935 - 2362 Product PRC Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
