NOTE : This solution is hypertonic - See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
LifeShield ® Abboject ® Syringe Fliptop Container Ansyr ™ II Plastic Syringe Rx only Description 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of dextrose in water for injection for intravenous injection as a fluid and nutrient replenisher .
Each mL of fluid contains 0 . 5 g dextrose , hydrous which delivers 3 . 4 kcal / gram .
The solution has an osmolarity of 2 . 53 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
, a pH of 4 . 2 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) and may contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required , the unused portion should be discarded with the entire unit .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated C6H12O6 • H2O ( D - glucose monohydrate ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
Dextrose , hydrous has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The syringe is molded from a specially formulated polypropylene .
Water permeates from inside the container at an extremely slow rate which will have an insignificant effect on solution concentration over the expected shelf life .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the syringe material .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously this solution restores blood glucose levels in hypoglycemia and provides a source of carbohydrate calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injection undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 50 % Dextrose Injection is indicated in the treatment of insulin hypoglycemia ( hyperinsulinemia or insulin shock ) to restore blood glucose levels .
The solution is also indicated , after dilution , for intravenous infusion as a source of carbohydrate calories in patients whose oral intake is restricted or inadequate to maintain nutritional requirements .
Slow infusion of hypertonic solutions is essential to insure proper utilization of dextrose and avoid production of hyperglycemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A concentrated dextrose solution should not be used when intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage is present , nor in the presence of delirium tremens if the patient is already dehydrated .
Dextrose injection without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility that pseudoagglutination of red cells may occur .
WARNINGS 50 % Dextrose Injection is hypertonic and may cause phlebitis and thrombosis at the site of injection .
Significant hyperglycemia and possible hyperosmolar syndrome may result from too rapid administration .
The physician should be aware of the symptoms of hyperosmolar syndrome , such as mental confusion and loss of consciousness , especially in patients with chronic uremia and those with known carbohydrate intolerance .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
For peripheral vein administration : The solution should be given slowly , preferably through a small bore needle into a large vein , to minimize venous irritation .
For central venous administration : Concentrated dextrose should be administered via central vein only after suitable dilution .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Blood electrolyte monitoring is essential and fluid and electrolyte imbalances should be corrected .
Essential vitamins and minerals also should be provided as needed .
To minimize hyperglycemia and consequent glycosuria , it is desirable to monitor blood and urine glucose and if necessary , add insulin .
When a concentrated dextrose infusion is abruptly withdrawn , it is advisable to follow with the administration of 5 % or 10 % dextrose injection to avoid rebound hypoglycemia .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
If thrombosis should occur during administration , the injection should be stopped and corrective measures instituted .
Concentrated dextrose solutions should not be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with solutions in polypropylene syringes have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hyperosmolar syndrome , resulting from excessively rapid administration of concentrated dextrose may cause mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For peripheral vein administration : Injection of the solution should be made slowly .
The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0 . 5 g / kg of body weight / hour .
About 95 % of the dextrose is retained when infused ata rate of 0 . 8 g / kg / hr .
In insulin - induced hypoglycemia , intravenous injection of 10 to 25 grams of dextrose ( 20 to 50 mL of 50 % dextrose ) is usually adequate .
Repeated doses and supportive treatment may be required in severe cases .
A specimen for blood glucose determination should be taken before injecting the dextrose .
In such emergencies , dextrose should be administered promptly without awaiting pretreatment test results .
For central venous administration : For total parenteral nutrition 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered by slow intravenous infusion ( a ) after admixture with amino acid solutions via an indwelling catheter with the tip positioned in a large central vein , preferably the superior vena cava , or ( b ) after dilution with sterile water for injection .
Dosage should be adjusted to meet individual patient requirements .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
The maximum rate of dextrose administration which does not result in glycosuria is the same as cited above .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 4902 - 34 Bundle containing 10 Lifeshield ® Abboject ® Unit of Use Syringe NDC 0404 - 9846 - 50 1 LIfeshield ® Abboject ® Unit of Use Syringe per bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 4902 - 64 ) 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 g / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6648 - 02 Tray containing 25 50 mL Single - Dose Fliptop Vials NDC 0404 - 9847 - 50 1 Single - Dose Fliptop Vial per bag ( Vial bears NDC 0409 - 6648 - 16 ) 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 g / mL ) NDC 0409 - 7517 - 16 Bundle containing 10 Ansyr ™ II Plastic Syringe NDC 0404 - 9845 - 50 1 Ansyr ™ II Plastic Syringe per bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 7517 - 66 ) 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 mg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Abboject ® is a trademark of the Abbott group of companies .
LifeShield ® is the trademark of ICU Medical , Inc . and is used under license .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1027 - 3 . 0 Revised : September 2019 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
