Drug Facts Active ingredients in each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) Purposes Codeine Phosphate , USP 10 mg Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritations as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive Warnings Do not use • in adults and children who have a chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath , or children who are taking other drugs , unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives , tranquilizers and drugs used for depression , especially monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) .
These combinations may cause greater sedation ( drowsiness ) than is caused by the product used alone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts for more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These can be signs of a serious condition .
• may cause or aggravate constipation If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
• Use of codeine - containing preparation is not recommended for children under 2 years of age .
Directions • take every 4 hours • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours • a special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age • giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor can result in serious side effects for a child adults and children 12 years and over 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Other information • Sodium Content : 5 mg / 5 mL • Tamper evident : Do not use if seal under cap is broken or missing • Keep container closed and store away from heat • Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavor , glycerin , menthol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sodium saccharin and sorbitol .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 845 - 8210 or visit paipharma . com Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
