Active ingredient Zinc Oxide ........ 40 . 0 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses • helps treat and prevent diaper rash • protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • cleanse the diaper area • allow to dry • apply cream liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Other Information • store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients cod liver oil , talc , petrolatum , lanolin , water , methylparaben , fragrance , BHA Package / Label Principal Display Panel Little Ones maximum strength original diaper rash paste With 40 % zinc oxide Helps to heal , soothe & prevent diaper rash Dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic Provides overnight relief for your baby ' s delicate skin Compare to Desitin ® Maximum Strength 40 % Zinc Oxide Original Diaper Rash Paste * NET WT .
4 OZ .
( 113 G ) Maximum Strength Original Diaper Rash Paste provides overnight relief for your baby ' s delicate skin .
This rich , dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic formula contains the maximum level of zinc oxide to instantly form a protective barrier to help heal and soothe discomfort caused by diaper rash .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEE Thank you for purchasing this quality product .
If you are unsatisfied for any reason , return the unused portion to the store for a full refund or call 1 - 800 - 842 - 7886 .
Distributed by : Kmart Corporation Hoffman Estates , IL 60179 Shop kmart . com / littleones Manufactured in Israel 0D927 AF C1 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® Consumer Products Company , owner of the registered trademark Desitin ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
