To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cephalexin for Oral Suspension and other antibacterial drugs , Cephalexin for Oral Suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cephalexin USP is a semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic intended for oral administration .
It is 7 - ( D - α - Amino - α - phenylacetamido ) - 3 - methyl - 3 - cephem - 4 - carboxylic acid monohydrate .
Cephalexin has the molecular formula C 16 H 17 N 3 O 4 S • H 2 O and the molecular weight is 365 . 41 .
Cephalexin has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The nucleus of cephalexin is related to that of other cephalosporin antibiotics .
The compound is a zwitterion ; i . e . , the molecule contains both a basic and an acidic group .
The isoelectric point of cephalexin in water is approximately 4 . 5 to 5 .
The crystalline form of cephalexin which is available is a monohydrate .
It is a white crystalline solid having a bitter taste .
Solubility in water is low at room temperature ; 1 or 2 mg / mL may be dissolved readily , but higher concentrations are obtained with increasing difficulty .
The cephalosporins differ from penicillins in the structure of the bicyclic ring system .
Cephalexin has a D - phenylglycyl group as substituent at the 7 - amino position and an unsubstituted methyl group at the 3 - position .
Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP is a white to off white granular powder with characteristic flavor , and gives orange colored viscous suspension after reconstitution with water .
After mixing , each 5 mL of Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP , will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 125 mg or 250 mg of anhydrous cephalexin .
The suspensions also contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , tutti - frutti flavor , orange flavor , sodium lauryl sulphate , sucrose and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Human Pharmacology : Cephalexin is acid stable and may be given without regard to meals .
It is rapidly absorbed after oral administration .
Following doses of 250 mg , 500 mg , and 1 g , average peak serum levels of approximately 9 , 18 , and 32 mcg / mL respectively were obtained at 1 hour .
Measurable levels were present 6 hours after administration .
Cephalexin is excreted in the urine by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion .
Studies showed that over 90 % of the drug was excreted unchanged in the urine within 8 hours .
During this period , peak urine concentrations following the 250 - mg , 500 - mg , and 1 - g doses were approximately 1000 , 2200 , and 5000 mcg / mL respectively .
Microbiology : In vitro tests demonstrate that the cephalosporins are bactericidal because of their inhibition of cell - wall synthesis .
Cephalexin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobes , Gram - positive : Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) Streptococcus pneumoniae ( penicillin - susceptible strains ) Streptococcus pyogenes Aerobes , Gram - negative : Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella pneumoniae Moraxella ( Branhamella ) catarrhalis Proteus mirabilis Note - Methicillin - resistant staphylococci and most strains of enterococci ( Enterococcus faecalis [ formerly Streptococcus faecalis ] ) are resistant to cephalosporins , including cephalexin .
It is not active against most strains of Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , and Proteus vulgaris .
It has no activity against Pseudomonas spp .
or Acinetobacter calcoaceticus .
Penicillin - resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae is usually cross - resistant to beta - lactam antibiotics .
Susceptibility Tests Dilution techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MIC ’ s ) .
These MIC ’ s provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MIC ’ s should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method 1 - 3 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of cephalothin powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 Susceptible ( S ) 16 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 32 Resistant ( R ) A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard cephalothin powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) E . coli ATCC 25922 4 - 16 S . aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 Diffusion techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure 2 , 3 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 - mcg cephalothin to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to cephalexin .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 - mcg cephalothin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 Susceptible ( S ) 15 - 17 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for cephalexin .
As with standard dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 - mcg cephalothin disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) E . coli ATCC 25922 15 - 21 S . aureus ATCC 25923 29 - 37 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms : Respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes ( Penicillin is the usual drug of choice in the treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP is generally effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , substantial data establishing the efficacy of cephalexin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available at present . )
Otitis media due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Moraxella catarrhalis Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and / or Streptococcus pyogenes Bone infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and / or Proteus mirabilis Genitourinary tract infections , including acute prostatitis , caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , and Klebsiella pneumoniae Note - Culture and susceptibility tests should be initiated prior to and during therapy .
Renal function studies should be performed when indicated .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cephalexin for Oral Suspension is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEPHALEXIN IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEPHALEXIN , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
IF THIS PRODUCT IS TO BE GIVEN TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS , CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS - HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG BETA - LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10 % OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEPHALEXIN OCCURS , DISCONTINUE THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES , INCLUDING OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS .
INTRAVENOUS ANTIHISTAMINES , CORTICOSTEROIDS , PRESSOR AMINES AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , AS CLINICALLY INDICATED .
There is some clinical and laboratory evidence of partial cross - allergenicity of the penicillins and the cephalosporins .
Patients have been reported to have had severe reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) to both drugs .
Any patient who has demonstrated some form of allergy , particularly to drugs , should receive antibiotics cautiously .
No exception should be made with regard to cephalexin .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cephalexin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General : Prescribing Cephalexin for Oral Suspension in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Patients should be followed carefully so that any side effects or unusual manifestations of drug idiosyncrasy may be detected .
If an allergic reaction to cephalexin occurs , the drug should be discontinued and the patient treated with the usual agents ( e . g . , epinephrine or other pressor amines , antihistamines , or corticosteroids ) .
Prolonged use of cephalexin may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Positive direct Coombs ’ tests have been reported during treatment with the cephalosporin antibiotics .
In hematologic studies or in transfusion cross - matching procedures when antiglobulin tests are performed on the minor side or in Coombs ’ testing of newborns whose mothers have received cephalosporin antibiotics before parturition , it should be recognized that a positive Coombs ’ test may be due to the drug .
Cephalexin should be administered with caution in the presence of markedly impaired renal function .
Under such conditions , careful clinical observation and laboratory studies should be made because safe dosage may be lower than that usually recommended .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
Broad - spectrum antibiotics should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment , or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated .
Information for Patients : Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Cephalexin for Oral Suspension should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cephalexin for Oral Suspension is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cephalexin for Oral Suspension or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions : Metformin : In healthy subjects given single 500 mg doses of cephalexin and metformin , plasma metformin mean C max and AUC increased by an average of 34 % and 24 % , respectively , and metformin mean renal clearance decreased by 14 % .
No information is available about the interaction of cephalexin and metformin following multiple doses of either drug .
Although not observed in this study , adverse effects could potentially arise from co - administration of cephalexin and metformin by inhibition of tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter systems .
Accordingly , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin .
Probenecid : As with other β - lactams , the renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : As a result of administration of cephalexin , a false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur .
This has been observed with Benedict ’ s and Fehling ’ s solutions and also with Clinitest ® tablets .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Lifetime studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of cephalexin .
Tests to determine the mutagenic potential of cephalexin have not been performed .
In male and female rats , fertility and reproductive performance were not affected by cephalexin oral doses up to 1 . 5 times the highest recommended human dose based upon mg / m 2 .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed on mice and rats using oral doses of cephalexin monohydrate 0 . 6 and 1 . 5 times the maximum daily human dose ( 66 mg / kg / day ) based upon mg / m 2 , and have revealed no harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : The excretion of cephalexin in the human milk increased up to 4 hours after a 500 - mg dose ; the drug reached a maximum level of 4 mcg / mL , then decreased gradually , and had disappeared 8 hours after administration .
Caution should be exercised when cephalexin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of cephalexin in pediatric patients was established in clinical trials for the dosages described in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
In these trials , pediatric patients may have received cephalexin capsules or cephalexin for oral suspension .
Geriatric Use : Of the 701 subjects in 3 published clinical studies of cephalexin , 433 ( 62 % ) were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Cephalexin capsules should only be used in children and adolescents capable of ingesting the capsule .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal : Onset of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibacterial treatment .
( See WARNINGS . )
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
The most frequent side effect has been diarrhea .
It was very rarely severe enough to warrant cessation of therapy .
Dyspepsia , gastritis , and abdominal pain have also occurred .
As with some penicillins and some other cephalosporins , transient hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice have been reported rarely .
Hypersensitivity : Allergic reactions in the form of rash , urticaria , angioedema , and , rarely , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , or toxic epidermal necrolysis have been observed .
These reactions usually subsided upon discontinuation of the drug .
In some of these reactions , supportive therapy may be necessary .
Anaphylaxis has also been reported .
Other reactions have included genital and anal pruritus , genital moniliasis , vaginitis and vaginal discharge , dizziness , fatigue , headache , agitation , confusion , hallucinations , arthralgia , arthritis , and joint disorder .
Reversible interstitial nephritis has been reported rarely .
Eosinophilia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , hemolytic anemia , and slight elevations in AST and ALT have been reported .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cephalexin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions : Fever , colitis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE and PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy should occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
Altered Laboratory Tests : Prolonged prothrombin time , increased BUN , increased creatinine , elevated alkaline phosphatase , elevated bilirubin , elevated LDH , pancytopenia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms : Symptoms of oral overdose may include nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , and hematuria .
If other symptoms are present , it is probably secondary to an underlying disease state , an allergic reaction , or toxicity due to ingestion of a second medication .
Treatment : To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Unless 5 to 10 times the normal dose of cephalexin has been ingested , gastrointestinal decontamination should not be necessary .
Protect the patient ’ s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of cephalexin ; however , it would be extremely unlikely that one of these procedures would be indicated .
The oral median lethal dose of cephalexin in rats is > 5000 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cephalexin for Oral Suspension is administered orally .
Adults : The adult dosage ranges from 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses .
The 333 mg and 750 mg strengths should be administered such that the daily dose is within 1 to 4 grams per day .
The usual adult dose is 250 mg every 6 hours .
For the following infections , a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours : streptococcal pharyngitis , skin and skin structure infections , and uncomplicated cystitis in patients over 15 years of age .
Cystitis therapy should be continued for 7 to 14 days .
For more severe infections or those caused by less susceptible organisms , larger doses may be needed .
If daily doses of Cephalexin for Oral Suspension greater than 4 g are required , parenteral cephalosporins , in appropriate doses , should be considered .
Pediatric Patients : The usual recommended daily dosage for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg / kg in divided doses .
For streptococcal pharyngitis in patients over 1 year of age and for skin and skin structure infections , the total daily dose may be divided and administered every 12 hours .
Cephalexin SuspensionWeight 125 mg / 5 mL 10 kg ( 22 lb ) 1 / 2 to 1 tsp q . i . d . 20 kg ( 44 lb ) 1 to 2 tsp q . i . d . 40 kg ( 88 lb ) 2 to 4 tsp q . i . d . Weight 250 mg / 5 mL 10 kg ( 22 lb ) 1 / 4 to 1 / 2 tsp q . i . d . 20 kg ( 44 lb ) 1 / 2 to 1 tsp q . i . d . 40 kg ( 88 lb ) 1 to 2 tsp q . i . d . or Weight 125 mg / 5 mL 10 kg ( 22 lb ) 1 to 2 tsp b . i . d . 20 kg ( 44 lb ) 2 to 4 tsp b . i . d . 40 kg ( 88 lb ) 4 to 8 tsp b . i . d . Weight 250 mg / 5 mL 10 kg ( 22 lb ) 1 / 2 to 1 tsp b . i . d . 20 kg ( 44 lb ) 1 to 2 tsp b . i . d . 40 kg ( 88 lb ) 2 to 4 tsp b . i . d .
In severe infections , the dosage may be doubled .
In the therapy of otitis media , clinical studies have shown that a dosage of 75 to 100 mg / kg / day in 4 divided doses is required .
In the treatment of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , a therapeutic dosage of Cephalexin for Oral Suspension should be administered for at least 10 days .
Direction for Mixing : Cephalexin for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Directions for Reconstitution 125 mg / 5 mL 100 mL Add 68 mL of water in two portions to the dry mixture in the bottle .
Shake well after each addition .
200 mL Add 136 mL of water in two portions to the dry mixture in the bottle .
Shake well after each addition .
250 mg / 5 mL 100 mL Add 68 mL of water in two portions to the dry mixture in the bottle .
Shake well after each addition .
200 mL Add 136 mL of water in two portions to the dry mixture in the bottle .
Shake well after each addition .
HOW SUPPLIED Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP is a white to off white granular powder with characteristic flavor , and gives orange colored viscous suspension after reconstitution with water .
Cephalexin for Oral Suspension , USP , is available in : The 125 mg / 5 mL oral suspension is available as follows NDC 685071 - 1585 - 0 Bottles of 100 mL Prior to mixing , store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES 1 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards : Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically - Fourth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A4 , Vol .
17 , No . 2 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January , 1997 .
2 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests - Sixth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A6 , Vol .
17 , No . 1 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January , 1997 .
3 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing - Eighth Informational Supplement .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M100 - S8 , Vol .
18 , No . 1 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January , 1998 .
Manufactured for : OrchidPharma , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA Manufactured by : Hospira Healthcare India Pvt . Ltd . , At Irungattukottai – 602 105 , India On behalf of : Orchid Healthcare ( A Division of Orchid Pharma Ltd . ) At Irungattukottai – 602 105 , India R01 / 16 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
