1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) is a high - potency corticosteroid .
Treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
• Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
( 2 ) • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • Use no more than 50 g per week .
( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 05 % .
Each gram of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) contains 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in a white to off - white emollient cream base .
• Cream , 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
• Hypersensitivity to any component of this medicine .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Effects on endocrine system : Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of treatment .
Risk factor ( s ) include the use of high - potency topical corticosteroids , use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion , prolonged use , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and use in pediatric patients .
Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment .
Factors that predispose to HPA axis suppression include the use of high - potency steroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and young age .
Evaluation for HPA axis suppression may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) was applied once daily at 7 grams per day for 1 week to diseased skin , in adult subjects with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , to study its effects on the HPA axis .
The results suggested that the drug lowered adrenal corticosteroid secretion , although plasma cortisol levels did not go below the lower limit of the normal range .
In an open - label pediatric trial of 60 evaluable subjects ( 3 months to 12 years of age ) , 19 subjects showed evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Four ( 4 ) subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) and 3 of the 4 ( 75 % ) had complete rehcovery of HPA axis function .
The proportion of subjects with adrenal suppression in this trial was progressively greater , the younger the age group .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Cushing ’ s syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur with topical corticosteroids .
These events are rare and generally occur after prolonged exposure to excessively large doses , especially of high - potency topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most common adverse reaction reported in 0 . 4 % of adult patients is stinging .
( 6 . 1 ) • The most common adverse reactions reported in 10 % of pediatric patients are signs of skin atrophy , telangiectasia , bruising , shininess .
( 6 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA at 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In controlled clinical trials , involving 242 adult subjects , the adverse reaction associated with the use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) reported at a frequency of 0 . 4 % was stinging .
It occurred in 1 subject .
In a controlled clinical trial involving 67 pediatric subjects from 3 months to 12 years of age , the adverse reactions associated with the use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) occurred in 7 of 67 ( 10 % ) subjects .
Reported reactions included signs of skin atrophy ( telangiectasia , bruising , shininess ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids may also include : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , hypertrichosis , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Hypersensitivity reactions , consisting of predominantly skin signs and symptoms , e . g . , contact dermatitis , pruritus , bullous dermatitis , and erythematous rash have been reported .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele , and cleft palate .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and can suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids can result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) in pediatric patients younger than 13 years of age is not recommended due to the potential for HPA axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In an open - label HPA axis safety trial in subjects 3 months to 12 years of age with atopic dermatitis , betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 58 % ( range 35 % to 95 % ) .
In 19 of 60 ( 32 % ) evaluable subjects , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a ≤ 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol ≤ 18 mcg / dL and / or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Out of the 19 subjects with HPA axis suppression , 4 subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) and 3 of the 4 ( 75 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
The proportion of subjects with adrenal suppression in this trial was progressively greater , the younger the age group [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of systemic toxicity when treated with topical drugs .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of HPA axis suppression and adrenal insufficiency upon the use of topical corticosteroids .
Rare systemic effects such as Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients , especially those with prolonged exposure to large doses of high potency topical corticosteroids .
Local adverse reactions including skin atrophy have also been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
Avoid use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of betamethasone dipropionate , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) included 104 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 8 subjects who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) contains betamethasone dipropionate USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for topical use in an emollient cream base .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of corticosteroid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate USP is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C 28 H 37 FO 7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate USP is a white or almost white crystalline powder , practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in acetone and in methylene chloride , sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Each gram of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) contains : 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in a white to off - white emollient cream base of carbomer homopolymer , ceteareth - 30 , chlorocresol , cyclomethicone , glyceryl oleate / propylene glycol , purified water , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , sorbitol solution , white petrolatum and white wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) in corticosteroid responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay Trials performed with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) indicate that it is in the high range of potency as demonstrated in vasoconstrictor trials in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics No pharmacokinetics trials have been conducted with betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees , are metabolized primarily in the liver , and excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Studies in rabbits , mice , and rats using intramuscular doses up to 1 , 33 , and 2 mg / kg , respectively , resulted in dose - related increases in fetal resorptions in rabbits and mice .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) for the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses have been established in two randomized and active controlled trials in subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis .
A total of 81 subjects who received betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) were included in these trials .
These trials evaluated betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) applied once or twice daily for 14 and 21 days , respectively , on bilateral paired psoriatic lesions .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) was shown to be effective in relieving the signs and symptoms of chronic plaque psoriasis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( augmented ) is a white to off - white cream supplied in 15 g ( NDC 68071 - 1657 - 5 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients of the following : • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved , unless directed otherwise by the physician .
• Use no more than 50 grams per week .
• Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Avoid use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 5 % ( augmented ) on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• Do not occlude the treatment area with bandage or other covering , unless directed by the physician .
• Note that local reactions and skin atrophy are more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Village : Kishanpura , Baddi Nalagarh Road District : Solan , Himachal Pradesh – 174101 , India Manufactured for : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa February 2015 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
