Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
HOW SUPPLIED METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS ARE SUPPLIED : bottles of 30 NDC 68071 - 3111 - 3 bottles of 60 NDC 68071 - 3111 - 6 bottles of 90 NDC 68071 - 3111 - 9 bottles of 120 NDC 68071 - 3111 - 2 bottles of 180 NDC 68071 - 3111 - 8 500 MG - White to Off - White capsule shaped no score imprint code 101 There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in adults is 2000 mg .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should generally be given once daily with the evening meal .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
( See Patient information printed below . )
Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults - In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet is 500 mg once daily with the evening meal .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly , up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
If glycemic control is not achieved on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2000 mg once daily , a trial of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg twice daily should be considered .
In a randomized trial , patients currently treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets were switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Results of this trial suggest that patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets treatment may be safely switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2000 mg once daily .
Following a switch from metformin hydrochloride tablets to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly Pediatrics – Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Transfer From Other Antidiabetic Therapy When transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2000 mg for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet is not recommended in pediatric patients ( below the age of 17 years ) .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 μg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ' s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and by use of the minimum effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress . There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ' s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose , and if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
METFORMIN ER TABLETS 500 MG [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
