Metoclopramide Tablets , USP Revised : May 2016 Rx Only WARNING : TARDIVE DYSKINESIA Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia , a serious movementdisorder that is often irreversible .
The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dose .
Metoclopramide therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop signs orsymptoms of tardive dyskinesia .
There is no known treatment for tardive dyskinesia .
In some patients , symptoms may lessen or resolve after metoclopramide treatment is stopped .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia .
See WARNINGS DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide hydrochloride , USP is a white or practically white , crystalline , odorless or practically odorless powder .
It is very soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , sparingly soluble in chloroform , practically insoluble in ether .
Chemically , it is 4 - amino - 5 - chloro - N - [ 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] - 2 - methoxybenzamide monohydrochloride monohydrate .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet for oral administration contains metoclopramide hydrochloride , equivalent to either 5 mg or 10 mg metoclopramide .
Tablets also contain as inactive ingredients anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate and ( 5 mg only ) D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Blue # 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric , biliary , or pancreatic secretions .
Its mode of action is unclear .
It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine .
The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation , but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs .
Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric ( especially antral ) contractions , relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb , and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit .
It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter .
It has little , if any , effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder .
In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low LESP ( lower esophageal sphincter pressure ) , single oral doses of metoclopramide produce dose - related increases in LESP .
Effects begin at about 5 mg and increase through 20 mg ( the largest dose tested ) .
The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasts about 45 minutes and that of 20 mg lasts between 2 and 3 hours .
Increased rate of stomach emptying has been observed with single oral doses of 10 mg .
The antiemetic properties of metoclopramide appear to be a result of its antagonism of central and peripheral dopamine receptors .
Dopamine produces nausea and vomiting by stimulation of the medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) , and metoclopramide blocks stimulation of the CTZ by agents like l - dopa or apomorphine which are known to increase dopamine levels or to possess dopamine - like effects .
Metoclopramide also abolishes the slowing of gastric emptying caused by apomorphine .
Like the phenothiazines and related drugs , which are also dopamine antagonists , metoclopramide produces sedation and may produce extrapyramidal reactions , although these are comparatively rare ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metoclopramide inhibits the central and peripheral effects of apomorphine , induces release of prolactin and causes a transient increase in circulating aldosterone levels , which may be associated with transient fluid retention .
The onset of pharmacological action of metoclopramide is 1 to 3 minutes following an intravenous dose , 10 to 15 minutes following intramuscular administration , and 30 to 60 minutes following an oral dose ; pharmacological effects persist for 1 to 2 hours .
Pharmacokinetics : Metoclopramide is rapidly and well absorbed .
Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg , the absolute oral bioavailability of metoclopramide is 80 % ± 15 . 5 % as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects .
Peak plasma concentrations occur at about 1 to 2 hours after a single oral dose .
Similar time to peak is observed after individual doses at steady state .
In a single dose study of 12 subjects , the area under the drug concentration - time curve increased linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg .
Peak concentrations increase linearly with dose ; time to peak concentrations remains the same ; whole body clearance is unchanged ; and the elimination rate remains the same .
The average elimination half - life in individuals with normal renal function is 5 to 6 hours .
Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide .
Approximately 85 % of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appears in the urine within 72 hours .
Of the 85 % eliminated in the urine , about half is present as free or conjugated metoclopramide .
The drug is not extensively bound to plasma proteins ( about 30 % ) .
The whole body volume of distribution is high ( about 3 . 5 L / kg ) which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues .
Renal impairment affects the clearance of metoclopramide .
In a study with patients with varying degrees of renal impairment , a reduction in creatinine clearance was correlated with a reduction in plasma clearance , renal clearance , non - renal clearance , and increase in elimination half - life .
The kinetics of metoclopramide in the presence of renal impairment remained linear however .
The reduction in clearance as a result of renal impairment suggests that adjustment downward of maintenance dosage should be done to avoid drug accumulation .
Adult Pharmacokinetic DataParameter Value Vd ( L / kg ) ~ 3 . 5 Plasma Protein Binding ~ 30 % t 1 / 2 ( hr ) 5 to 6 Oral Bioavailability 80 % ± 15 . 5 % In pediatric patients , the pharmacodynamics of metoclopramide following oral and intravenous administration are highly variable and a concentration - effect relationship has not been established .
There are insufficient reliable data to conclude whether the pharmacokinetics of metoclopramide in adults and the pediatric population are similar .
Although there are insufficient data to support the efficacy of metoclopramide in pediatric patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux ( GER ) or cancer chemotherapy - related nausea and vomiting , its pharmacokinetics have been studied in these patient populations .
In an open - label study , six pediatric patients ( age range , 3 . 5 weeks to 5 . 4 months ) with GER received metoclopramide 0 . 15 mg / kg oral solution every 6 hours for 10 doses .
The mean peak plasma concentration of metoclopramide after the tenth dose was 2 - fold ( 56 . 8 mcg / L ) higher compared to that observed after the first dose ( 29 mcg / L ) indicating drug accumulation with repeated dosing .
After the tenth dose , the mean time to reach peak concentrations ( 2 . 2 hr ) , half - life ( 4 . 1 hr ) , clearance ( 0 . 67 L / h / kg ) , and volume of distribution ( 4 . 4 L / kg ) of metoclopramide were similar to those observed after the first dose .
In the youngest patient ( age , 3 . 5 weeks ) , metoclopramide half - life after the first and the tenth dose ( 23 . 1 and 10 . 3 hr , respectively ) was significantly longer compared to other infants due to reduced clearance .
This may be attributed to immature hepatic and renal systems at birth .
Single intravenous doses of metoclopramide 0 . 22 to 0 . 46 mg / kg ( mean , 0 . 35 mg / kg ) were administered over 5 minutes to 9 pediatric cancer patients receiving chemotherapy ( mean age , 11 . 7 years ; range , 7 to 14 yr ) for prophylaxis of cytotoxic - induced vomiting .
The metoclopramide plasma concentrations extrapolated to time zero ranged from 65 to 395 mcg / L ( mean , 152 mcg / L ) .
The mean elimination half - life , clearance , and volume of distribution of metoclopramide were 4 . 4 hr ( range , 1 . 7 to 8 . 3 hr ) , 0 . 56 L / h / kg ( range , 0 . 12 to 1 . 20 L / h / kg ) , and 3 . 0 L / kg ( range , 1 . 0 to 4 . 8 L / kg ) , respectively .
In another study , nine pediatric cancer patients ( age range , 1 to 9 yr ) received 4 to 5 intravenous infusions ( over 30 minutes ) of metoclopramide at a dose of 2 mg / kg to control emesis .
After the last dose , the peak serum concentrations of metoclopramide ranged from 1060 to 5680 mcg / L .
The mean elimination half - life , clearance , and volume of distribution of metoclopramide were 4 . 5 hr ( range , 2 . 0 to 12 . 5 hr ) , 0 . 37 L / h / kg ( range , 0 . 10 to 1 . 24 L / h / kg ) , and 1 . 93 L / kg ( range , 0 . 95 to 5 . 50 L / kg ) , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE The use of metoclopramidetablets , USP is recommended for adults only .
Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration .
Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux : Metoclopramide tablets , USP are indicated as short - term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) therapy for adults with symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
The principal effect of metoclopramide is on symptoms of postprandial and daytime heartburn with less observed effect on nocturnal symptoms .
If symptoms are confined to particular situations , such as following the evening meal , use of metoclopramide as single doses prior to the provocative situation should be considered , rather than using the drug throughout the day .
Healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions has been endoscopically demonstrated at the end of a 12 - week trial using doses of 15 mg q . i . d .
As there is no documented correlation between symptoms and healing of esophageal lesions , patients with documented lesions should be monitored endoscopically .
Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) : Metoclopramide tablets , USP are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastric stasis .
The usual manifestations of delayed gastric emptying ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , heartburn , persistent fullness after meals , and anorexia ) appear to respond to metoclopramide within different time intervals .
Significant relief of nausea occurs early and continues to improve over a three - week period .
Relief of vomiting and anorexia may precede the relief of abdominal fullness by one week or more .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide should not be used whenever stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous , e . g . , in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage , mechanical obstruction , or perforation .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because the drug may cause a hypertensive crisis , probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor .
Such hypertensive crises may be controlled by phentolamine .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity or intolerance to the drug .
Metoclopramide should not be used in epileptics or patients receiving other drugs which are likely to cause extrapyramidal reactions , since the frequency and severity of seizures or extrapyramidal reactions may be increased .
WARNINGS Mental depression has occurred in patients with and without prior history of depression .
Symptoms have ranged from mild to severe and have included suicidal ideation and suicide .
Metoclopramide should be given to patients with a prior history of depression only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
Extrapyramidal symptoms , manifested primarily as acute dystonic reactions , occur in approximately 1 in 500 patients treated with the usual adult dosages of 30 to 40 mg / day of metoclopramide .
These usually are seen during the first 24 to 48 hours of treatment with metoclopramide , occur more frequently in pediatric patients and adult patients less than 30 years of age and are even more frequent at higher doses .
These symptoms may include involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus .
Rarely , dystonic reactions may present as stridor and dyspnea , possibly due to laryngospasm .
If these symptoms should occur , inject 50 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride intramuscularly , and they usually will subside .
Benztropine mesylate , 1 to 2 mg intramuscularly , may also be used to reverse these reactions .
Parkinsonian - like symptoms have occurred , more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment with metoclopramide , but occasionally after longer periods .
These symptoms generally subside within 2 to 3 months following discontinuance of metoclopramide .
Patients with preexisting Parkinson ’ s disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously , if at all , since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide .
Tardive Dyskinesia ( see Boxed Warnings ) Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia ( TD ) , a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face , tongue , or extremities .
The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose .
An analysis of utilization of patterns showed that about 20 % of patients who used metoclopramide took it longer than 12 weeks .
Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than the recommended 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing TD .
Although the risk of developing TD in the general population may be increased among the elderly , women , and diabetics , it is not possible to predict which patients will develop metoclopramide - induced TD .
Both the risk of developing TD and the likelihood that TD will become irreversible increase with duration of treatment and total cumulative dose .
Metoclopramide should be discontinued in patients who develop signs and symptoms of TD .
There is no known effective treatment for established cases of TD , although in some patients , TD may remit , partially or completely , within several weeks to months after metoclopramide is withdrawn .
Metoclopramide itself may suppress , or partially suppress , the signs of TD , thereby masking the underlying disease process .
The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long - term course of TD is unknown .
Therefore , metoclopramide should not be used for the symptomatic control of TD .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) There have been rare reports of an uncommon but potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) associated with metoclopramide .
Clinical manifestations of NMS include hyperthermia , muscle rigidity , altered consciousness , and evidence of autonomic instability ( irregular pulse or blood pressure , tachycardia , diaphoresis and cardiac arrhythmias ) .
The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated .
In arriving at a diagnosis , it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness ( e . g . , pneumonia , systemic infection , etc . ) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms ( EPS ) .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , malignant hyperthermia , drug fever and primary central nervous system ( CNS ) pathology .
The management of NMS should include 1 ) immediate discontinuation of metoclopramide and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy , 2 ) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring , and 3 ) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
Bromocriptine and dantrolene sodium have been used in treatment of NMS , but their effectiveness have not been established ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General In one study in hypertensive patients , intravenously administered metoclopramide was shown to release catecholamines ; hence , caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is used in patients with hypertension .
Because metoclopramide produces a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , certain patients , especially those with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure , may be at risk of developing fluid retention and volume overload .
If these side effects occur at any time during metoclopramide therapy , the drug should be discontinued .
Adverse reactions , especially those involving the nervous system , may occur after stopping the use of metoclopramide .
A small number of patients may experience a withdrawal period after stopping metoclopramide that could include dizziness , nervousness , and / or headaches .
Information for Patients : The use of metoclopramide is recommended for adults only .
Metoclopramide may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
The ambulatory patient should be cautioned accordingly .
For additional information , patients should be instructed to see the Medication Guide for metoclopramide tablets .
Drug Interactions : The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility are antagonized by anticholinergic drugs and narcotic analgesics .
Additive sedative effects can occur when metoclopramide is given with alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , narcotics or tranquilizers .
The finding that metoclopramide releases catecholamines in patients with essential hypertension suggests that it should be used cautiously , if at all , in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Absorption of drugs from the stomach may be diminished ( e . g . , digoxin ) by metoclopramide , whereas the rate and / or extent of absorption of drugs from the small bowel may be increased ( e . g . , acetaminophen , tetracycline , levodopa , ethanol , cyclosporine ) .
Gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) may be responsible for poor diabetic control in some patients .
Exogenously administered insulin may begin to act before food has left the stomach and lead to hypoglycemia .
Because the action of metoclopramide will influence the delivery of food to the intestines and thus the rate of absorption , insulin dosage or timing of dosage may require adjustment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : A 77 - week study was conducted in rats with oral doses up to about 40 times the maximum recommended human daily dose .
Metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration .
Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one - third of human breast cancers are prolactin - dependent in vitro , a factor of potential importance if the prescription of metoclopramide is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer .
Although disturbances , such as galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence have been reported with prolactin - elevating drugs , the clinical significance of elevated serum prolactin levels is unknown for most patients .
An increase in mammary neoplasms has been found in rodents after chronic administration of prolactin - stimulating neuroleptic drugs and metoclopramide .
Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date , however , have shown an association between chronic administration of these drugs and mammary tumorigenesis ; the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive at this time .
An Ames mutagenicity test performed on metoclopramide was negative .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies performed in rats , mice , and rabbits by the I . V . , I . M . , S . C . , and oral routes at maximum levels ranging from 12 to 250 times the human dose have demonstrated no impairment of fertility or significant harm to the fetus due to metoclopramide .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Metoclopramide is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established ( see OVERDOSAGE ) Care should be exercised in administering metoclopramide to neonates since prolonged clearance may produce excessive serum concentrations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) .
In addition , neonates have reduced levels of NADH - cytochrome b 5 reductase which , in combination with the aforementioned pharmacokinetic factors , make neonates more susceptible to methemoglobinemia ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
The safety profile of metoclopramide in adults cannot be extrapolated to pediatric patients .
Dystonias and other extrapyramidal reactions associated with metoclopramide are more common in the pediatric population than in adults .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS - Extrapyramidal Reactions . )
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoclopramide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
The risk of developing parkinsonian - like side effects increases with ascending dose .
Geriatric patients should receive the lowest dose of metoclopramide that is effective .
If parkinsonian - like symptoms develop in a geriatric patient receiving metoclopramide , metoclopramide should generally be discontinued before initiating any specific anti - parkinsonian agents ( see WARNINGSand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux ) .
The elderly may be at greater risk for tardive dyskinesia ( see WARNINGS – Tardive Dyskinesia ) .
Sedation has been reported in metoclopramide users .
Sedation may cause confusion and manifest as over - sedation in the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , PRECAUTIONS – Information for Patientsand ADVERSE REACTIONS – CNS Effects ) .
Metoclopramide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – USE IN PATIENTS WITH RENAL OR HEPATIC IMPAIRMENT ) .
For these reasons , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased renal function , concomitant disease , or other drug therapy in the elderly ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Refluxand Use in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment ) .
Other Special Populations Patients with NADH - cytochrome b 5 reductase deficiency are at an increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia and / or sulfhemoglobinemia when metoclopramide is administered .
In patients with G6PD deficiency who experience metoclopramide induced methemoglobinemia , methylene blue treatment is not recommended ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In general , the incidence of adverse reactions correlates with the dose and duration of metoclopramide administration .
The following reactions have been reported , although in most instances , data do not permit an estimate of frequency .
CNS Effects : Restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude occur in approximately 10 % of patients receiving the most commonly prescribed dosage of 10 mg q . i . d . ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Insomnia , headache , confusion , dizziness , or mental depression with suicidal ideation ( see WARNINGS ) occur less frequently .
The incidence of drowsiness is greater at higher doses .
There are isolated reports of convulsive seizures without clearcut relationships to metoclopramide .
Rarely , hallucinations have been reported .
Extrapyramidal Reactions ( EPS ) : Acute dystonic reactions , the most common type of EPS associated with metoclopramide , occur in approximately 0 . 2 % of patients ( 1 in 500 ) treated with 30 to 40 mg of metoclopramide per day .
Symptoms include involuntary movements of limbs , facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , opisthotonus ( tetanus - like reactions ) , and , rarely , stridor and dyspnea possibly due to laryngospasm ; ordinarily these symptoms are readily reversed by diphenhydramine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Parkinsonian - like symptoms may include bradykinesia , tremor , cogwheel rigidity , mask - like facies ( see WARNINGS ) .
Tardive dyskinesia most frequently is characterized by involuntary movements of the tongue , face , mouth , or jaw , and sometimes by involuntary movements of the trunk and / or extremities ; movements may be choreoathetotic in appearance ( see WARNINGS ) .
Motor restlessness ( akathisia ) may consist of feelings of anxiety , agitation , jitteriness , and insomnia , as well as inability to sit still , pacing , foot - tapping .
These symptoms may disappear spontaneously or respond to a reduction in dosage .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome : Rare occurrences of neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) have been reported .
This potentially fatal syndrome is comprised of the symptom complex of hyperthermia , altered consciousness , muscular rigidity , and autonomic dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Endocrine Disturbances : Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , hypertension , supraventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , fluid retention , acute congestive heart failure and possible AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and bowel disturbances , primarily diarrhea .
Hepatic : Rarely , cases of hepatotoxicity , characterized by such findings as jaundice and altered liver function tests , when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential .
Renal : Urinary frequency and incontinence .
Hematologic : A few cases of neutropenia , leukopenia , or agranulocytosis , generally without clearcut relationships to metoclopramide .
Methemoglobinemia , in adults and especially with overdosage in neonates ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Sulfhemoglobinemia in adults .
Allergic Reactions : A few cases of rash , urticaria , or bronchospasm , especially in patients with a history of asthma .
Rarely , angioneurotic edema , including glossal or laryngeal edema .
Miscellaneous : Visual disturbances .
Porphyria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Impax Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of overdosage may include drowsiness , disorientation and extrapyramidal reactions .
Anticholinergic or antiparkinson drugs or antihistamines with anticholinergic properties may be helpful in controlling the extrapyramidal reactions .
Symptoms are self - limiting and usually disappear within 24 hours .
Hemodialysis removes relatively little metoclopramide , probably because of the small amount of the drug in blood relative to tissues .
Similarly , continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis does not remove significant amounts of drug .
It is unlikely that dosage would need to be adjusted to compensate for losses through dialysis .
Dialysis is not likely to be an effective method of drug removal in overdose situations .
Unintentional overdose due to misadministration has been reported in infants and children with the use of metoclopramide oral solution .
While there was no consistent pattern to the reports associated with these overdoses , events included seizures , extrapyramidal reactions , and lethargy .
Methemoglobinemia has occurred in premature and full - term neonates who were given overdoses of metoclopramide ( 1 to 4 mg / kg / day orally , intramuscularly or intravenously for 1 to 3 or more days ) .
Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue .
However , methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , which may be fatal ( see PRECAUTIONS – Other Special Populations ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy with metoclopramidetablets should not exceed 12 weeks in duration .
For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux : Administer from 10 mg to 15 mg metoclopramide hydrochloride , USP orally up to q . i . d . 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime , depending upon symptoms being treated and clinical response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
If symptoms occur only intermittently or at specific times of the day , use of metoclopramide in single doses up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation may be preferred rather than continuous treatment .
Occasionally , patients ( such as elderly patients ) who are more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide will require only 5 mg per dose .
Experience with esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited , but healing has thus far been documented in one controlled trial using q . i . d . therapy at 15 mg per dose , and this regimen should be used when lesions are present , so long as it is tolerated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because of the poor correlation between symptoms and endoscopic appearance of the esophagus , therapy directed at esophageal lesions is best guided by endoscopic evaluation .
Therapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended .
For the Relief of Symptoms Associated with Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) Administer 10 mg of metoclopramide 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime for two to eight weeks , depending upon response and the likelihood of continued well - being upon drug discontinuation .
The initial route of administration should be determined by the severity of the presenting symptoms .
If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present , oral administration of metoclopramide may be initiated .
However , if severe symptoms are present , therapy should begin with metoclopramide injection ( consult labeling of the injection prior to initiating parenteral administration ) .
Administration of the metoclopramide injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside , at which time oral administration may be instituted .
Since diabetic gastric stasis is frequently recurrent , metoclopramide therapy should be reinstituted at the earliest manifestation .
Use in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Since metoclopramide is excreted principally through the kidneys , in those patients whose creatinine clearance is below 40 mL / min , therapy should be initiated at approximately one - half the recommended dosage .
Depending upon clinical efficacy and safety considerations , the dosage may be increased or decreased as appropriate .
See OVERDOSAGE section for information regarding dialysis .
Metoclopramide undergoes minimal hepatic metabolism , except for simple conjugation .
Its safe use has been described in patients with advanced liver disease whose renal function was normal .
HOW SUPPLIED Metoclopramide Tablets , USP : 10 mg - White , round , scored tablets in bottles of 20 NDC 68071 - 3262 - 2 bottles of 30 NDC 68071 - 3262 - 3 bottles of 60 NDC 68071 - 3262 - 6 bottles of 90 NDC 68071 - 3262 - 9 Debossed : WPI on one side and 2229 on the other side .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
MEDICATION GUIDE Metoclopramide Tablets , USP Read the Medication Guide that comes with metoclopramide tablets before you start taking them and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
If you take another product that contains metoclopramide ( such as metoclopramide injection , metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets , or metoclopramide oral solution ) , you should read the Medication Guide that comes with that product .
Some of the information may be different .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Metoclopramide tablets can cause serious side effects , including : Tardive Dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
These movements happen mostly in the face muscles .
You can not control these movements .
They may not go away even after stopping metoclopramide tablets .
There is no treatment for tardive dyskinesia , but symptoms may lessen or go away over time after you stop taking metoclopramide tablets .
Your chances for getting tardive dyskinesia go up : • the longer you take metoclopramide tablets and the more metoclopramide tablets you take .
You should not take metoclopramide tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• if you are older , especially if you are a woman • if you have diabetes It is not possible for your doctor to know if you will get tardive dyskinesia if you take metoclopramide tablets .
Call your doctor right away if you get movements you can not stop or control , such as : • lip smacking , chewing , or puckering up your mouth • frowning or scowling • sticking out your tongue • blinking and moving your eyes • shaking of your arms and legs See the section “ What are the possible side effects of metoclopramide tablets , USP ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What are metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Metoclopramide is a prescription medicine used : • in adults for 4 to 12 weeks to relieve heartburn symptoms with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) when certain other treatments do not work .
Metoclopramide relieves daytime heartburn and heartburn after meals .
It also helps ulcers in the esophagus to heal .
• to relieve symptoms of slow stomach emptying in people with diabetes .
Metoclopramide helps treat symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , heartburn , feeling full long after a meal , and loss of appetite .
Not all these symptoms get better at the same time .
It is not known if metoclopramide is safe and works in children .
Who should not take metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Do not take metoclopramide tablets if you : • have stomach or intestine problems that could get worse with metoclopramide tablets , such as bleeding , blockage or a tear in the stomach or bowel wall • have an adrenal gland tumor called a pheochromocytoma • are allergic to metoclopramide tablets or anything in it .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of ingredients in metoclopramide tablets .
• take medicines that can cause uncontrolled movements , such as medicines for mental illness • have seizures What should I tell my doctor before taking metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you have : • depression • Parkinson ’ s disease • high blood pressure • kidney problems .
Your doctor may start with a lower dose .
• liver problems or heart failure .
Metoclopramide tablets may cause your body to hold fluids .
• diabetes .
Your dose of insulin may need to be changed .
• breast cancer • you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if metoclopramide tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• you are breast - feeding .
Metoclopramide can pass into breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take metoclopramide tablets .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Metoclopramide and some other medicines may interact with each other and may not work as well , or cause possible side effects .
Do not start any new medicines while taking metoclopramide tablets until you talk with your doctor .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • another medicine that contains metoclopramide , such as metoclopramide orally disintegrating tablets or metoclopramide oral solution • a blood pressure medicine • a medicine for depression , especially an Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) • insulin • a medicine that can make you sleepy , such as anti - anxiety medicine , sleep medicines , and narcotics .
If you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
• Metoclopramide comes as a tablet you take by mouth .
• Take metoclopramide tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you .
• You should not take metoclopramide tablets for more than 12 weeks .
• If you take too much metoclopramide tablets , call your doctor or Poison Control Center right away .
What should I avoid while taking metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
• Do not drink alcohol while taking metoclopramide tablets .
Alcohol may make some side effects of metoclopramide worse , such as feeling sleepy .
• Do not drive , work with machines , or do dangerous tasks until you know how metoclopramide affects you .
Metoclopramide may cause sleepiness .
What are the possible side effects of metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Metoclopramide tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • Tardive Dyskinesia ( abnormal muscle movements ) .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about metoclopramide tablets , USP ? ”
• Uncontrolled spasms of your face and neck muscles , or muscles of your body , arms , and legs ( dystonia ) .
These muscle spasms can cause abnormal movements and body positions .
These spasms usually start within the first 2 days of treatment .
These spasms happen more often in children and adults under age 30 .
• Depression , thoughts about suicide , and suicide .
Some people who take metoclopramide tablets become depressed .
You may have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself .
Some people who take metoclopramide have ended their own lives ( suicide ) .
• Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) .
NMS is a very rare but very serious condition that can happen with metoclopramide .
NMS can cause death and must be treated in a hospital .
Symptoms of NMS include : high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating .
• Parkinsonism .
Symptoms include slight shaking , body stiffness , trouble moving or keeping your balance .
If you already have Parkinson ’ s disease , your symptoms may become worse while you are receiving metoclopramide tablets .
Call your doctor and get medical help right away if you : • feel depressed or have thoughts about hurting or killing yourself • have high fever , stiff muscles , problems thinking , very fast or uneven heartbeat , and increased sweating • have muscle movements you cannot stop or control • have muscle movements that are new or unusual Common side effects of metoclopramide include : • feeling restless , sleepy , tired , dizzy , or exhausted • headache • confusion • trouble sleeping You may have more side effects the longer you take metoclopramide tablets and the more metoclopramide tablets you take .
You may still have side effects after stopping metoclopramide tablets .
You may have symptoms from stopping ( withdrawal ) metoclopramide tablets such as headaches , and feeling dizzy or nervous .
Tell your doctor about any side effects that bother you or do not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of metoclopramide tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 – 800 – FDA - 1088 .
How should I store metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
• Keep metoclopramide tablets at room temperature between 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25ºC ) .
• Keep metoclopramide tablets in the bottle it comes in .
Keep the bottle closed tightly .
Keep metoclopramide tabletsand all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about metoclopramide tablets , USP Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use metoclopramide tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give metoclopramide tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about metoclopramide tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about metoclopramide tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call Impax Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 .
What are the ingredients in metoclopramide tablets , USP ?
Active ingredient : metoclopramide Inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate and ( 5 mg only ) D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Blue # 1 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed by : Impax Generics Hayward , CA 94544 Revised : May 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
